Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Health Services Primary Care Clinic Stamps Health Services is committed to providing excellent care in a timely manner to the students of Georgia Tech. The providers in the Primary Care Clinic serve students who have a wide variety of concerns, from acute illness to chronic ongoing health issues to wellness and prevention. The providers in the Primary Care Clinic are board certified physicians, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants. Our physicians are trained in internal medicine, family practice and emergency medicine. Respiratory screening appointments open up at 2:30 the day before the appointment. Scheduling for Nonrespiratory appointments for the 8a-9:45a time slots open up at 7am the day before the appointment. The appointments cannot be scheduled into after 3pm the day before the appointment. Nonrespiratory appointments for the 10am-4:15p time slots open up at 3pm the day before the appointment. You are required to check in fifteen minutes prior to your scheduled appointment time. If you are late checking in, your appointment will be canceled and you will need to reschedule. If you are unable to find an appointment please choose a different date, check back later, or call (404) 894-1420. If you cannot make your appointment, please cancel your appointment as soon as possible. 24 hours’ notice is appreciated. More information for scheduling appointments online Review the Physical Scheduling Form prior to your visit. Physical Scheduling Form To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Appointments for Routine Physical Exams and Travel Evaluations have a separate process for scheduling. Need Assistance? Call us at (404) 894-1420 Schedule an appointment online Refill a prescription online Use our online support form After Hours Sign up for the Health Initiatives monthly newsletter here. Visit the contact page Need Emergency Assistance? Campus Police: (404) 894-2500 Off-campus assistance: 911 24-hour Crisis Consultation line: (404) 894-2575 Scheduling Your Routine Physical Exam Routine physicals are scheduled at 8:00 am in the Primary Care Clinics. You must complete the appropriate forms and submit them to either Blue or Gold Care Teams in order to schedule an appointment. You may fax your forms to (404) 894-1107 or (404) 385-0717, email them to physical@health.gatech.edu, or bring them in and make the appointment at that time. If you fax or email your forms you will receive a call from the nursing staff to make an appointment. If you have a specific problem that you would like addressed, please make a regular appointment with a provider. The provider will then determine if a routine physical exam is also needed. The Silver Care team/Sports Medicine Clinic does not accept appointments for physicals. A $25.00 no-show charge will be assessed to a scheduled appointment that is missed or a scheduled appointment that is not canceled at least 24 hours in advance. Scheduling a Travel Evaluation To schedule a travel visit you must first complete an International Travel Form, then fax or email that form to (404) 894-6254 or travel@health.gatech.edu. You may also bring the form to the Travel/Immunization clinic. Once the form is received, someone will call you to schedule your appointment. A complete physical exam is not usually part of a travel visit, so if you need a physical exam done in addition to travel information (often required for study abroad programs), please let the person scheduling your appointment know this so that additional time can be included in your appointment. A $25.00 no-show charge will be assessed to a scheduled appointment that is missed or a scheduled appointment that is not canceled at least 24 hours in advance. International Travel Form To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Services Provided by Primary Care Our primary care clinicians can help address a number of symptoms, injuries, and illnesses. Some of the most common reasons for seeing a primary care clinician include: Acute illnesses, such as: Abdominal pain Gastrointestinal (stomach and intestinal) illness Rashes Sore throat Sexually transmitted infection (STI) symptoms Upper respiratory infections Urinary symptoms Acute injuries, such as orthopedic injuries (i.e. ankle sprain, knee pain, etc.) Chronic disease management, such as thyroid disease, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol Routine physicals including sexual transmitted infection (STI) testing Referrals to external specialists Blue Care Team Diane Heath, MD Angelo Galante, MD Emily Richardson, MD Marjan Kirkland, NP Aliza Krug, PA Kimberly Brewster,NP Gold Care Team Stephen Holbrook, MD Frank Pickens, MD Julie Powell, APRN Gina Talbot, MD Silver Care Team Steven Terry, PA Health Topics Are you interested in learning more about relevant health topics in the news? Learn more below. Immunization Requirements Video Ebola Corneal Infection Prevention Meningitis Vaccines MERS: In the News Measles Information Programs Advance Directives Stamps Health Services Ambassadors Tobacco Cessation Service Providers After Hours Care DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Looking for Covid-19 Health Information? Learn about Covid-19 prevention, symptoms, testing, and vaccines: Covid-19 Health Information Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login