Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services BASICS BASICS BASICS—Brief Alcohol Screening and Intervention for College Students—is a program designed to assist students in examining their drinking and other drug-use behavior in a judgment-free environment. This is not an abstinence-only program. Instead, the goals are selected by the student and are aimed at reducing risky behaviors and potential harmful consequences. Services provided through the BASICS program are non-judgmental, non-labeling, and private. This service is available to all registered undergraduate, graduate, and professional students on the Morningside campus, including Barnard College, Teachers College, Union Theological Seminary, and Jewish Theological Seminary. The program involves an initial meeting with a BASICS provider, the completion of an online assessment, and a second meeting with the same provider. Appointments can be scheduled online, and a variety of times and days are offered. During appointments, students have the opportunity to discuss any issues or concerns, including sleep and mental health. Referral to BASICS Students are referred to see a BASICS provider in one of three ways: self-referral, soft referral, and mandatory referral. Referral to BASICS is educational and is not meant to be a means of discipline. Regardless of the type of referral, BASICS sessions are always tailored to the goals of each individual student. Expand all Collapse all Self-referral For students concerned about their relationship with alcohol or who would like to learn more about how to maintain a healthy relationship with alcohol, self-referral may be a good option. Simply complete the brief, anonymous Alcohol Use Self-Assessment. Similarly, for those interested in exploring their relationship with marijuana, they may complete the the Cannabis Use Self-Assessment. If deemed appropriate, at the end of the survey, there is an option to participate in BASICS. If interested in participating in BASICS, click the “Yes, I am interested in BASICS” icon. Taking the self-assessment is not a commitment to being contacted by a provider. The self-assessment will be anonymous unless a student specifically requests to be contacted. This brief screening tool is not intended to serve as a substitute for a complete substance use evaluation. If a student feels that it would be beneficial to receive assistance for alcohol or other drug-related concerns, please speak with your health care provider. Soft Referral Soft referrals are for students for whom BASICS is recommended, but not required. Soft referrals are available to all students on campus. There is a network of trained soft referrers across campus, including deans, Columbia Health staff, athletic trainers, academic advisers, and others. Examples of soft referrals may include: Faculty member, instructor, staff member, or adviser is concerned about student’s use of alcohol or other drugs Academic problems that may be connected to student’s use of alcohol or other drugs Medical provider has concerns about a student’s health related to substance use Mental health provider has concerns about a student’s substance use Mandatory Referral Mandatory referrals are for students for whom BASICS is required. There is a network of trained mandatory referrers across campus, including deans, residential programs staff, Student Conduct and Community Standards staff, and other administrators on campus. Examples of mandatory referrals may include: CU-EMS transports a student for alcohol- or other drug-related reason Violations of school policies or other students’ rights (e.g., sexual harassment) in which alcohol or other drug use was involved Ethical violations in which alcohol or substance use played a part Inappropriate behavior at school-sponsored events, either on or off campus, in which alcohol or other drug use was involved Disruptive classroom behavior involving alcohol or substance use Alcohol- or substance use–related problematic behavior at internships, externships, or other field placements For policy violations involving substance use, the mandatory referrer also has the option to recommend BASICS as an educational part of the process. It is up to the mandatory referrer’s discretion if BASICS would be an appropriate educational option for those in violation of policies, procedures, or regulations related to alcohol or other substance abuse or misuse, on or off campus. If you have questions about BASICS or other substance use-related issues, email [email protected] or check out the Alcohol and Other Drugs fact sheets at Go Ask Alice! Related Resources Counseling and Psychological Services Go Ask Alice! Alcohol & Other Drugs archives National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Staff Directory Check out our list of staff at the office department page. Health Unit Alice! Health Promotion Clinical Specialty Prevention Initiatives Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close