Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About HIPAA Designation USG/GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HYBRID ENTITY HEALTH CARE COMPONENTS Georgia Institute of Technology (“GIT”) is a unit of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia (the “USG”). The USG engages in covered functions as defined by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-191, 45 C.F.R. §§ 160, 162 and 164), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5)(hereinafter, collectively, “HIPAA”). Because some portions of the USG are not engaged in covered functions (see 45 C.F.R. §164.103), the USG has designated itself as a hybrid entity as defined by HIPAA (see 45 C.F.R. §164.103) (hereinafter, the “USG Hybrid Entity”). Any portion of the USG engaged in a covered function or performing business associate activities (see 45 C.F.R. §160.103) for another component of the USG engaged in a covered function, as those terms are defined by HIPAA, is deemed by the USG to be a part of the health care component (the “Health Care Component”) of the USG Hybrid Entity. Each USG institution is responsible for identifying the components, business units, colleges or schools that are a part of such Health Care Component. GIT, as a unit of the USG, hereby designates the following components of GIT that are part of the USG Hybrid Entity Health Care Component, and are required to comply with any applicable HIPAA regulations: Stamps Health Services Office of Information Technology ("OIT") OIT is a unit within Administration and Finance providing support for COVID-19 data recovery efforts. In order to expand capacity at Stamps Health Services, the following OIT teams will serve in a business associate role as a Health Care Component of the USG Hybrid Entity for the limited purposes of: (i) data aggregation and analysis in direct support of GIT’s COVID-19 testing program; and (ii) data aggregation, analysis and integration in direct support of GIT's COVID-19 vaccine program: OIT Data Warehousing; OIT Business Intelligence, OIT Data Governance, OIT Systems Support. Tech Applications Group, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs In order to expand capacity at Stamps Health Services, the Tech Applications Group will serve in a business associate role as a Health Care Component of the USG Hybrid Entity for the limited purposes of: (i) management and administration of the MyTest testing platform in direct support of GIT’s COVID-19 testing program; and (ii) creation, management and administration of the MyTest Vaccine platform in direct support of GIT's COVID-19 vaccine program. NOTE: Protected Health Information (PHI) excludes student education records and treatment records maintained by GIT as defined and covered by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), as amended (20 U.S.C. 1232(g)) and employment records maintained by a covered entity, including a hybrid entity, in its role as an employer. (See 45 C.F.R. § 160.103). Also specifically excluded is any individually identifiable health information received by GIT pursuant to the conduct of research. Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login