Skip to Main Content Brown University Health & Wellness Health Services Secondary Navigation Navigation Parents & Families Patient Portal Search Menu Site Navigation Home Services Appointments Health Requirements New Undergraduate Students New Graduate Students New Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions Request Medical Records Fees & Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) About Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Search Health & Wellness Health Services Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) Breadcrumb Home Fees and Insurance Sub Navigation In This Section Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) Quick Links Find a Doctor Covid-19 Test kit Reimbursement Form Order an ID Card Savings Programs Basix Student Dental Savings Program Eye Med Vision Discount Program Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) The Student Health Insurance Office is located in the Health and Wellness Center at 450 Brook St. Brown University is proud to offer our students who do not have coverage through a comparable health insurance plan, coverage through United Healthcare Student Resources. The SHIP includes a national provider network that gives students access to in network providers throughout the country and In-Network Preventive care services with no deductibles, copays or coinsurance. Students enrolled in SHIP, also have access to the on campus lab through our partnership with Rhode Island Hospital at no additional cost. The cost of the SHIP plan for the 22-23 academic year is $4255. The cost of the insurance will appear on your student account in Banner. Any billing questions can be directed to studenthealthinsuranceplan@brown.edu. Traveling Abroad? Through SHIP, students may qualify for Medical Evacuation, Repatriation & Travel Assistance Services. Any treatment received while abroad will be billed according to the out-of-network benefit. Contact Us Reach Pamela Watkins, Student Insurance Specialist, with any inquiries by phone at 401-863-1703 or email at studenthealthinsuranceplan@brown.edu. Address: Brown University Health & Wellness Attn: Student Insurance Box 1928 Providence, RI 02912 Fee Structure The annual cost of the Student Health Insurance Plan is $4255.00 and is effective from 08/15/2022 – 08/14/2023. Please refer to the following enrollment periods: Annual: 08/15/2022 – 08/14/2023 Spring: 01/01/2023 – 08/14/2023 The Student Health Insurance Waiver deadline is 7/29/2022 for the annual insurance coverage. Frequently Asked Questions I received a bill and/or Explanation of Benefits (EOB). What should I do? Please allow a full 30 days for all claims to process before inquiring about a bill. If you have received a bill or an Explanation of Benefits and have questions regarding your out of pocket costs, please email us at studenthealthinsuranceplan@brown.edu. Please include a copy of your billing statement, summary of benefits and any relevant details. An Explanation of Benefits (EOB) is a statement that comes from your health insurance provider that describes the costs your plan will cover for medical care or products. It is generated when your provider submits a claim for services. How do I get an insurance card? To request a new insurance card please log in to your account at www.gallagherstudent.com/brown and follow the 'Get an ID Card' link. I need to waive my insurance. Please visit the www.gallagherstudent.com/brown website to submit your insurance waiver. I recently lost coverage or I am experiencing a life-changing event. Qualifying life events such as a loss of coverage, marriage, or birth of a child can be submitted via the Gallagher student website at www.gallagherstudent.com/brown. I am a student receiving financial aid. Can I apply for Financial Assistance to help with my insurance costs? If you have received a denial of your SHIP waiver, or are a recipient of financial aid and you are in need of assistance with your insurance costs, please email us at: studenthealthinsuranceplan@brown.edu. Please title your email SHIP Assistance and include your Banner ID and any relevant information such as your waiver denial letter from Gallagher. I am a December graduate. Can I keep my coverage? December graduates are covered by SHIP through August of the following year of enrollment. Please refer to the plan year details to confirm the last day of coverage. If you are a December graduate and you wish to terminate your coverage early and request a refund of a portion of your insurance costs, please email studenthealthinsuranceplan@brown.edu to request a refund. Please state December Graduate in the subject line and include your Banner ID and graduation date in the body. I am graduating and haven’t established insurance coverage. Can I extend my Student Health Insurance Plan? Students who are enrolled in the Student Health Insurance Plan at the time of graduation may be eligible for an extension of the insurance plan for up to three months. Please access additional information through the Brown University Continuation Plan. I’m taking a Leave of Absence. What should I do? Students that take a leave of absence while covered by SHIP will remain on the plan through the remainder of the coverage period. For questions regarding the extension of your insurance plan beyond the coverage period, please visit the Gallagher website at www.gallagherstudent.com/brown and click "Leave of Absence Enroll Form." I’m feeling sick/injured what should I do? Students are encouraged to visit Health & Wellness for all sick/ wellness visits before seeking care in the community. Please visit the Health and Wellness page to learn more about our hours and services. Quick Links Find a Doctor Covid-19 Test kit Reimbursement Form Order an ID Card Savings Programs Basix Student Dental Savings Program Eye Med Vision Discount Program Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Services Appointments Health Requirements New Undergraduate Students New Graduate Students New Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions Request Medical Records Fees & Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) About Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Parents & Families Patient Portal This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) Open details for Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) Bookmark this Page