Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Breadcrumb Home Updates Sub Navigation In This Section All Updates Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs May 14, 2021 Russell C. Carey, Executive Vice President for Planning and Policy Tags Undergraduates Grad and Medical Students Faculty and Staff To the Brown Community: COVID-19 Testing Update: 05/06/21 - 05/12/21 Updates Dear Brown Community Members, Below, please find our weekly update on Brown’s testing program for COVID-19, with additional information and context to complement the data shared via our public dashboard: https://healthy.brown.edu/testing-tracing/dashboard We are aware of the continuing updates to guidance from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) regarding mask wearing and other health and safety measures for individuals who are fully vaccinated for COVID-19. We are actively reviewing that guidance and working on what it means for the University. For now, however, the University’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy remains in full effect with no changes, including mask wearing requirements on campus. When we are ready to update the campus safety policy, we will communicate that information broadly to the community. The most important thing Brown faculty, students and staff can do right now to aid in our efforts to return to normal operations is to get the COVID-19 vaccination and upload your completed vaccination card so we know the levels of vaccination in our community. Employees should upload their completed vaccination card directly to Workday by following the directions in this guide: http://brown.edu/go/vaccine-manage. Alternatively, you can email a .pdf or .jpg to Worklife@brown.edu, using Virtru to email it securely. All vaccination records will be stored confidentially in Workday. Students can upload their final vaccination cards directly to the Health & Wellness Patient Portal at: https://patientportal.brown.edu/. We recommend you access the patient portal via desktop as it will allow for an easier upload than mobile. Detailed instructions are available through the Verify Your Vaccination information section on the Healthy Brown site at: https://healthy.brown.edu/vaccinations. We also encourage every employee and student to take a photo of your vaccination card for your safekeeping and easy reference. At Brown, since launching our routine testing program for the fall term on Aug. 24, we have conducted 393,568 asymptomatic tests to date. A total of 11,057 individuals have been tested in that timeframe, and the total number of positive test results is 568 (up 2 this week from a total of 566 last week) -- a prevalence rate of 5.1%. Here are highlights of the testing program over the last seven days, Thursday, May 6, through Wednesday, May 12: -- There have been 2 positive asymptomatic test results: 2 from employees and none from students. As a reminder, our student testing program includes undergraduate, graduate and medical students. -- Over the past week, the employee asymptomatic positivity rate was 0.07%, and the student asymptomatic positivity rate was 0.00%. The Rhode Island positivity rate during this same time period was 1.59%. -- The average turnaround time for asymptomatic test results during this period was approximately 15 hours. -- University Health Services (UHS) conducted 3 symptomatic tests of students. Of these, none were positive for COVID-19. Exact results for symptomatic students who are tested by UHS are not reported (and do not appear on the public dashboard) to protect the confidentiality of the small numbers of students who are tested. We will report on ranges and any concerns regarding trends in these weekly summaries. -- The University does not directly test symptomatic employees, as they receive health care from their individual providers. We do monitor employee absences due to COVID-19 -- which can be for a range of reasons, including care of a child or family member or quarantine due to a known exposure -- and the number of such absences for the most recent full work week was 8. -- It is important to note that with regard to all positive cases, we have taken action consistent with our contact tracing protocols, COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy, isolation and quarantine procedures, and other measures outlined in Brown’s Plan for a Healthy and Safe 2020-21. As a reminder, if you are currently being tested once a week and would like to change to twice a week, you are welcome to do so. Students can email studenttesting@brown.edu to make that change. Faculty and staff can email employeetestinguhr@brown.edu for guidance on how to increase their testing frequency. Please feel free to contact us with any questions or concerns. For questions or support regarding the testing program, students can contact the student testing support team (401-863-6500, studenttesting@brown.edu), and faculty and staff can contact the employee testing support team (401-368-4828, employeetestinguhr@brown.edu). Sincerely, Russell C. Carey Executive Vice President, Planning and Policy Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search To the Brown Community: COVID-19 Testing Update: 05/06/21 - 05/12/21 Open details for To the Brown Community: COVID-19 Testing Update: 05/06/21 - 05/12/21 Bookmark this Page