Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > Virtual reality nursing — in 3D Virtual reality nursing — in 3D September 14, 2021 Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing Cassandra Barrow and BSN junior Mary DeFrancisco Does the thought of having an intravenous drip hooked up through the back of your boney hand give you the shivers? If so, spare a thought for the parallel anxiety many nursing students feel as they learn how to pierce your skin using razor-sharp metal without doing you any harm. Enter Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing Cassandra Barrow, who focused her recent Ph.D. research on the role 3D virtual reality simulation could play in alleviating such feelings while contributing to nursing students’ skills development, critical thinking and communication. Thanks in large part to Barrow’s work, such innovative technology is now a mainstay of undergraduate nursing education at The University of Tulsa School of Nursing. Using virtual reality to quell real anxiety TU’s Lawson Family Simulation Center and Nursing Skills Lab contains state-of-the-art high-fidelity equipment used to help train the country’s future nurses. Here, students in the undergraduate nursing program engage in hands-on activities – such as inserting a catheter or injecting medications – in a simulated clinical environment. Prior to working with real patients, such experiences enable students to practice technical skills, gain muscle memory, make errors safely and receive feedback to improve their performance. According to Barrow, two of the main benefits of high-fidelity simulation – and the reason it is in such great demand – are that nursing students have the opportunity to improve their performance while decreasing their anxiety. “At the same time, however, studies have shown that high-fidelity simulation itself often brings about anxiety for nursing students,” commented Barrow, who received her Ph.D. in nursing from Oklahoma City University in 2021. To address this, some nursing schools have introduced two-dimensional screen-based virtual simulations before turning students over to hands-on simulation work. This technology, Barrow notes, has been shown to help lower anxiety. A 3D approach Barrow’s interest in the potential role of virtual reality in nursing education was sparked by her husband, Thomas Barrow (BA ’06, BS ’19), a TU computer simulation and gaming graduate. “Having taught nursing since 2015, I would watch so many of my students shaking with anxiety during their first hands-on simulations with the high-fidelity mannequins we have at TU. I knew there had to be ways to lessen their stress. My husband’s work with virtual reality set me on the path of and inspired my passion for incorporating the approach into nursing education here at TU.” For her doctoral research, Barrow undertook a study of the effect of 3D virtual simulations and nursing students’ anxiety. “Basically, I wondered how much more could 3D virtual reality accomplish given that 2D had already been proven helpful.” What she discovered was highly promising: There was a significant decrease (p=.005) in reported state anxiety of the nursing students after the intervention. “These results,” Barrow concluded, “suggest that virtual reality simulation really does influence state anxiety scores in pre-licensure nursing students regarding their first high-fidelity hands-on simulation.” Based on her findings, Barrow recommended that 3D virtual reality simulation be added early during nursing students’ education. Further, she advised that such training include a debriefing session held either virtually or face to face. Learning to deliver excellent care “A person goes into nursing because they want to deliver excellent care,” said Barrow. “My research, as well as my experience as a nurse and nurse educator, have proven to me that decreasing student anxiety is itself a central concept of caring. And 3D virtual reality simulation is definitely a way to achieve that goal.” BSN junior Kyra Vanderweele Today, 3D virtual reality simulation is being deployed in TU’s pre-licensure bachelor of nursing program. Using software from Oxford Medical Simulation, students now reap the benefits of experiencing five simulations over their first three semesters. “Using 3D virtual reality simulation with headsets and hand controllers offers a bridge between 2D screen-based simulation and mannequin-based hands-on simulation,” noted Barrow. And with the technology, students can complete the same simulation in 2D as many times as they want after completing it in 3D. “Not only do our students find their stress melt away,” noted Barrow, “but they also enjoy the process of learning more and find they are able to retain more information.” Do you aspire to be a well-trained, caring health care professional with great job prospects? Then consider earning your bachelor of science in nursing degree at the TU School of Nursing! Faculty, Featured, News, Nursing, Research, Stories 3D, baccalaureate in nursing, Cassandra Barrow, Oxford Medical Simulation, simulation, virtual reality Categories Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Alumni Announcements Arts & Sciences Arts and Sciences Athletic Training Biological Science Business Career Services Commitment Commitment: Accepted Commitment: Empowered Commitment: Engaged Commitment: Self-Discovery Communication Sciences & Disorders Community Service Computer Science Diversity Doctor of Nursing Practice Engineering and Natural Sciences Exercise & Sports Science Experiential Learning Faculty Family Nurse Practitioner Featured Global Education Health Care Delivery Sciences Health Sciences IDEAS: A 21st-century health blog Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences Law School News Nursing President Research Schweitzer Fellowship Stories Student Stories study abroad True Blue uncategorized veterans 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT