Skip to content Florida State University FSU | College of Health and Human Sciences Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation CHHS Home The College About CHHS History Dean & Staff Academic Advising Information Technology Dean’s Advisory Council Graduate Events and Opportunities Graduate Orientation Research Showcase Open House Scholarships Endowed Chair & Professorships Health Professions Learning Community Human Development & Family Science Department Home HDFS Students Current HDFS PhD Students HDFS Faculty & Staff HDFS Centers & Institutes HDFS Seminar Series HDFS News Nutrition & Integrative Physiology Department Home NIP Students Current NIP PhD Students NIP Faculty & Staff NIP Centers & Institutes NIP Seminar Series NIP News NIP Research News Contact Giving Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu College of Health and Human Sciences Nutrition & Integrative Physiology Human Development & Family Science NIP Students NIP Undergraduate Programs NIP Graduate Programs Get to know our PhD students NIP Careers NIP Faculty & Staff NIP Centers & Institutes NIP Seminar Series NIP News NIP Research “My research interest includes neural control of the circulation, vestibular control of sympathetic nerve activity, and autonomic and cardiovascular adjustments to physical and mental stress.” Chet Ray, Ph.D. “My research is primarily focused on understanding the effects of physical activity on the cardiovascular system and the microcirculation.” Michael Delp, Ph.D. “My research interests are proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation techniques in rehabilitation; and static, semi-dynamic and dynamic balance training exercises in regaining balance and postural equilibrium.” Michele Garber, MS, ATC, LAT “I have a long-standing interest in understanding the molecular factors that contribute to changes in skeletal muscle mass and function during disease and non-diseased states.” Bradley Gordon, Ph.D. “My current research is to understand how oxidative stress contributes irregular heartbeats (arrhythmias) and contractility in various cardiac diseases (myocardial infarction, hypertension, diabetic cardiomyopathy).” Hyun Seok Hwang, Ph.D. “My primary research interests focus on the study of sarcopenia (i.e., age-related atrophy of skeletal muscle) and other neuromuscular changes related to aging, exercise, and physical function.” Jeong-Su Kim, Ph.D. “My research group focuses on the application of multiple-hurdle approaches for beef and produce safety.” Prashant Singh, Ph.D. Inspiring Curiosity NIP Preview NIP Feature The College’s largest department consists of four innovative programs that analyze physical performance, health and wellness through a foundation in scientific research, technical knowledge and practical skill-building. Today’s growing attentiveness to healthy lifestyle habits has generated a greater demand for careers in these fields. Full Circle: How Dr. Peggy Hsieh Supports the FSU CHHS Read more... Family has always played a big role in the life of Dr. Yun-Hwa “Peggy” Hsieh. Whether her biological family … College of Health and Human Sciences Announces Administrative Changes Read more... The department of Nutrition & Integrative Physiology announced that Dr. Chester “Chet” Ray, professor … Doctoral Student Cesar Meza Receives NIH Predoctoral Fellowship Read more... Cesar Meza is a doctoral student in the department of Nutrition & Integrative Physiology. Recently, he received a … More News R1 RESEARCH UNIVERSITY FSU is one of only 115 institutions classified as an “R1 Research University… (Highest research activity)” in the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. COLLABORATION An interdisciplinary research environment enables shared learning between disciplines, faculty and cohorts. This entrepreneurial spirit within a single department inspires curiosity and optimizes performance. FACULTY INTERESTS An esteemed roster of faculty enables students an opportunity to study topics with professional researchers who share their interest. The search for excellence. Your Future Awaits NUIP Feature Students Faculty and Staff Centers and Institutes Seminar Series News × Questions or comments? Contact the Help Desk for info regarding the College or assistance with this website. Get in Touch © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media