Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Communication Sciences & Disorders Community impact Helping patients recover from COVID-19 918-631-2897 Mary K. Chapman Center Map https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ COMMUNICATIONS SCIENCES & DISORDERS Communication Sciences & Disorders Undergraduate Programs Communication Sciences & Disorders Graduate Programs Student Achievement Data Speech & Hearing Clinic Annual Route 66 Conference Faculty News Contact the Department Those who study communication and swallowing disorders are focused on people of all ages who demonstrate difficulty developing effective and appropriate communication and swallowing skills or who have lost their ability to communicate and/or swallow because of strokes or traumatic brain injury or other physical problems. Earning a degree in speech-language pathology from The University of Tulsa allows you to take the first step toward reaching your goals. Students who choose to study speech-language pathology must earn an undergraduate degree (or take prerequisite coursework) as well as a master’s degree in speech-language pathology, since the master’s degree is the entry degree into the field of speech-language pathology. Undergraduate students follow a strict sequence of basic science and pre-professional courses during their undergraduate study and participate in a clinical practicum at the onsite speech, language and hearing clinic during their senior year. Graduate students study communication sciences and disorders in their graduate coursework and participate in clinical practicum on-site as well as off-site in a hospital/rehabilitation center and a public school setting. Speech-language pathologists facilitate the development or rehabilitation of speech, language and swallowing skills with people with communication and swallowing disorders throughout the lifespan in a variety of settings such as early intervention programs, hospital/rehabilitation facilities, schools, clinics and private practices. Mission The mission of the Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders is to provide a high-quality educational experience, clinical training, and research opportunities for students pursuing professional careers in speech-language pathology, audiology and other related fields. The undergraduate and master’s programs combine a broad liberal arts curriculum with specific and sequential academic and clinical coursework in communication sciences and disorders. The Department seeks to produce competent master’s degree graduates to treat persons with communication and swallowing disorders in any professional setting. Based on this mission statement, the Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders has established program goals which are listed below: Graduates from the master’s degree program in speech-language pathology will be able to: Meet eligibility for ASHA certification Meet eligibility for licensure in many states Meet eligibility as a school SLP in many states Provide services as an entry level professional in a medical facility, educational facility, or private practice setting. Accreditation The Master’s of Science (M.S.) education program in speech-language pathology at The University of Tulsa is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology (CAA) of the American Speech-Language Hearing Association, 2200 Research Boulevard #310, Rockville, Maryland 20850-3289, 800-498-2071 or 301-296-5700. Practice Settings Elementary and Secondary Schools Hospitals/Medical Centers Offices of Audiologists Nursing/Residential Care Facilities Offices of Physical, Occupational & Speech Therapists 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT