Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > Emergency flight nurses chart new career paths via DNP program Emergency flight nurses chart new career paths via DNP program October 22, 2021 AG-ACNP students Andy and Misty Cannon Andy and Misty Cannon are enjoying rewarding, fast-paced careers as emergency flight nurses with Tulsa Life Flight. As if the demands of that high-pressure work and being parents to four children were not enough, Andy recently embarked on the final year of The University of Tulsa’s doctor of nursing practice (DNP) program while his wife, Misty, has just begun her first DNP semester. Both of them have chosen to pursue the adult-gerontology acute care nurse practitioner (AG-ACNP) pathway. Two nurses, two journeys Andy graduated with a bachelor of science in nursing (BSN) in 2007. Since then, he has worked in emergency, interventional radiology, critical care, vascular access and, currently, flight nursing. “As flight nurses, Misty and I respond to 911 scene calls and interfacility transports,” Andy explained. “We see all ages and acuity of patients. Essentially, we’re a flying intensive care unit (ICU). We can intubate, insert chest thoracotomies, manage ventilators and pretty much any critical care infusion.” Emergency flight nurses Andy and Misty Cannon From age six, Misty, who grew up in rural Oklahoma, knew she wanted to be a nurse. And from age 17, she had refined that ambition to being a flight nurse. Misty became a registered nurse in 1999 and, 18 years later, she took her expertise to the skies. “I love flying,” she said. “And I love caring for critically ill and injured patients, including the autonomy of working in that setting.” The decision to enroll in the DNP program was initially sparked for Andy by the “top-notch” education and training Tulsa Life Flight provides its nurses as well as by the experience of studying for the Certified Flight Registered Nurses (CFRN) exam: “I discovered I wanted to learn more and increase my knowledge base.” Having decided to return to school, Andy remarked, “I didn’t want any future regrets like ‘I wish I had taken another path.’ I knew I wanted to go all the way.” In that light, the DNP made the most sense to him and, he thought, it could possibly open a door to educating future nurse practitioners someday. “In addition, I am committed to helping drive excellent health care delivery and policy. Holding a DNP will help me achieve those goals.” With a number of DNP programs from which to choose, Andy did his research and landed on TU as his best option. He cites the TU School of Nursing’s reputation for excellence, the ability to study locally and the fact the program arranges for preceptors. “I watched students from online programs anxiously searching around for preceptors and I definitely didn’t want that additional stressor,” Andy noted. Misty, who graduated with an associate’s degree in nursing in 2003, had a rather different journey to the DNP program than her husband. “When I started work as a flight nurse in Feb. 2018, I knew it was going to be a challenge,” she recalled. “But I had no idea how much autonomy would be present. I love it!” A few years ago, however, Misty realized she would not be able to work at the bedside “for hours on end every day.” In addition, she foresaw that, in the not-too-distant future, a BSN would be required for critical care nursing. “I therefore decided I would complete my bachelor’s and be done forever with higher education.” Those were her plans, but reality took a somewhat different route. The Cannons in TU’s Nursing Skills Lab In mid-2020, about five weeks before she completed the BSN program at Grand Canyon University, Misty contracted COVID-19. And not a mild case, either. Misty was out of commission for two whole months. “I managed to finish the degree but, as I returned to work, I quickly perceived I wouldn’t be able to continue to do my job as a flight nurse forever. I knew I would come to a point where I just couldn’t physically tolerate the demands.” Enter husband Andy, whose positive experiences as a DNP student helped sway Misty to pursue the AG-ACNP pathway at TU as the best way to work as a nurse practitioner in the acute care setting she loves. “Life’s little overlapping circles sure are funny,” Misty remarked. “I talked Andy into becoming a flight nurse – he started in April 2018 – and then he talked me into becoming a DNP student. Sometimes we need a push, because growth doesn’t come from comfort.” Another reason Misty chose to apply to the DNP program is is because she felt a doctoral degree would set her apart from master’s prepared nurses. “In addition, the extended scope of practice that will be opened for me is really exciting.” A couple of weeks ago, Misty wrote her first exam in the DNP program. “It was nerve wracking, but I held it together and I’m so glad I made this decision!” From research to best practice Nearer to the finish line, Andy is pulling together plans for his DNP project, a capstone research study. The focus of this is on developing a protocol for using a bougie – a tapered, cylindrical instrument — on every intubation attempt. Andy’s interest in this topic comes from both literature and life. “There is a lot of data that shows multiple intubation attempts are associated with increased adverse events, such as hypoxia, damage to airway structures and cardiac arrests. Evidence indicates that the use of a bougie improves the intubation success rate,” said Andy. As a flight nurse, he has also witnessed firsthand the difficulties even some experienced medical practitioners have when they attempt to intubate patients without a bougie. “Seeing those situations made me wonder, ‘why isn’t a bougie the standard of care?’” As he looks to the future, Andy is hopeful that his DNP research will help pave the way for exactly that change in practice. “As a flight nurse, Andy has intubated many patients and has found that using a specific technique with a bougie during intubation decreases the number of multiple attempts and improves patient safety,” commented AG-ACNP Director Andrea Wall. “Outcomes for his project will hopefully prove that changing the intubation technique can increase success rates.” The future of health care depends on strong leadership from excellent clinicians. Find out more about scaling that height with one of the four pathways available via TU’s doctor of nursing practice program. Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner, Doctor of Nursing Practice, Featured, Health Sciences, News, Nursing, Research, Stories, Student Stories advanced practice, AG-ACNP, Andrea Wall, Andy Cannon, Certified Flight Registered Nurses, flight nurse, intensive care, Misty Cannon, Tulsa Life Flight Categories Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Alumni Announcements Arts & Sciences Arts and Sciences Athletic Training Biological Science Business Career Services Commitment Commitment: Accepted Commitment: Empowered Commitment: Engaged Commitment: Self-Discovery Communication Sciences & Disorders Community Service Computer Science Diversity Doctor of Nursing Practice Engineering and Natural Sciences Exercise & Sports Science Experiential Learning Faculty Family Nurse Practitioner Featured Global Education Health Care Delivery Sciences Health Sciences IDEAS: A 21st-century health blog Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences Law School News Nursing President Research Schweitzer Fellowship Stories Student Stories study abroad True Blue uncategorized veterans 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT