Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home News Patient Portal Enhancements Enable Students to Set Name-in-Use, Pronoun, and Gender Identity Patient Portal Enhancements Enable Students to Set Name-in-Use, Pronoun, and Gender Identity Editor's note: Updated terminology and explanation of continued use of the term "preferred" name. By Columbia Health July 08, 2019 Fall 2021 Update: The preferred name field now syncs directly to the preferred name field in the Columbia Health Patient Portal. Learn more. Students can now enter their name-in-use and pronouns directly in the Columbia Health Patient Portal. There is now a field where students can identify and edit their name-in-use, pronouns, and gender identity. Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Patient Portal Slide 2: Patient Portal Slide 3: Patient Portal Slide 4: Patient Portal Previous Next Previously, students had to request their name-in-use be added to their records. This change is an important step in enabling students to maintain their own record and ensure it reflects their identity. Columbia Health is also working on a real-time integration with the Student Services Online Support and Development (SSOL) system so in the future, students will be able to note their name-in-use in SSOL and it will feed to the Patient Portal. A note about the use of “preferred name” and “preferred pronouns” Currently, the form fields for entering one's name-in-use and pronouns are called "preferred names" and "preferred nouns." Columbia Health understands that the term “preferred” in reference to one’s name-in-use and pronouns can be disempowering for individuals and has as an organization made a commitment to shifting toward more affirming language. Unfortunately the systems that we are using have not updated their field name in their database to reflect this shift. We continue to work with our institutional and technology partners to ensure that these updates are made. Learn more about Columbia's policies here. These enhancements come at the heels of additional developments on the Patient Portal designed to make it easier for students to provide Columbia Health with information that will improve their care on campus and satisfy requirements well before arrival. New incoming students for the Fall 2019 term will have the ability to input and upload the following directly into the Portal: Name-in-use, pronouns, and gender identity, personal and family medical history, and Measles, Mumps, and Rubella compliance data. Columbia Health welcomes feedback from all members of the Columbia community to improve our efforts in providing inclusive options for students and facilitate information-sharing between medical providers and their patients. Please email [email protected] with suggestions or questions. What is a "Preferred Name," Name-in-Use or Chosen Name? A "Preferred Name," Name-in-Use, or Chosen Name is a name a student wishes to be known by in the University community that is different from a student’s Legal Name. What is a Legal Name? A Legal Name is the name that appears on your passport, driver’s license, birth certificate, or U.S. Social Security Card. News May 23, 2022 Commencement Honors for Columbia Health SVP, Dr. Melanie Bernitz April 25, 2022 Columbia Health Releases its 2020-21 Annual Report April 25, 2022 Dr. Michael McNeil, Chief of Administration for Columbia Health, included in Inside HigherEd article March 21, 2022 Our opposition to ongoing efforts to harm the lives and well-being of trans and queer people March 16, 2022 Making decisions about your well-being amid changing COVID-19 public health guidance Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close