Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Check out options at Oxley Explore Programs The Oxley College of Health Sciences comprises the School of Nursing, Department of Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences, and Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders. The Oxley Health Sciences facility in downtown Tulsa includes high tech classrooms, a high-fidelity simulation center, a research lab and labs for nursing, athletic training and exercise and sports science. Academics The Oxley College of Health Sciences offers programs that prepare students to be the next generation of health care providers. Programs offered include undergraduate- and graduate-level nursing, athletic training, exercise and sports science and speech-language pathology. Each program includes a significant amount of clinical experience enhancing knowledge gained in the classroom and skills labs to prepare students for positions in their field. The college also offers a certificate in Health Care Delivery Sciences for working professionals. About the College Nursing: BSN & DNP Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences We cannot forget that as a nation we have not recovered from the 200+ years of the disease that is racism, which has transformed and infected our social structures. Read the full statement from TU’s Office of Diversity & Engagement , Engagement The Oxley College of Health Sciences encourages students to take their classroom knowledge and utilize it in clinical experience, research, and community service opportunities. Schweitzer Fellowship Laureate Institute of Brain Research Study Abroad Facilities Clinical Learning I’ve always wanted to work with and help people because a desk job is just not for me. And, I really wanted to study abroad … something my TU advisor helped to make happen by offering me a tailored schedule. Ashley Hughes, BS Exercise and Sports Science View More Events News All News Stories Researchers at LIBR identify abnormal heart-brain connection in generalized anxiety disorder Researchers at the Laureate Institute for Brain Research identified an abnormal link between the autonomic and central nervous systems in women with generalized anxiety disorder. TU students help major health care provider assess community needs When Ascension St. John began planning a large-scale community health needs assessment, Associate Professor of Community Medicine Jeffrey Alderman saw a unique opportunity to give students first-hand research experience. Emergency flight nurses chart new career paths via DNP program Virtual reality nursing — in 3D National Athletic Trainers’ Association inducts Gardner into Hall of Fame Advanced practice nursing alumna strives to eliminate health care disparities in rural Oklahoma Speech-language pathologists at the frontlines of COVID-19 patient care 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT