Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events Health Professions Advising Home Program of Study Planning and Preparation FAQ Affiliations Close menu Site Home> Professional School Affiliations Professional School Affiliations For information about the professional school affiliations with Providence College, students should contact the Advisor for the Health Professions. Brown Medical School Early Identification Program (EIP) The Early Identification Program (EIP) is a cooperative venture between Brown Medical School and Providence College. The program provides selected students a place in the medical school following the student’s graduation. Invitations to apply for the EIP are made by the Providence College advisor for the health professions based on a student’s undergraduate performance. Acceptances are offered by Brown Medical School. Rhode Island residents currently enrolled in the junior year are eligible to be considered for the EIP. Rhode Island students who are interested should notify the advisor for the health professions prior to the beginning of their third semester at Providence College. Once accepted to participate in the EIP, formal acceptance to the medical school is contingent upon satisfactory academic progress as evidenced by a grade point average of 3.0 or better, attainment of competence in the sciences basic to medicine, a senior year recommendation from the advisor for the health professions, and documented verification of the student’s complete academic record, including completion of requirements for the baccalaureate degree. Combined Degree Program with New England College of Optometry This program provides a unique educational opportunity for the highly motivated student with a professional goal in optometry. It allows for completion of the B.A. or B.S. degree in biology and the O.D. (doctor of optometry) degree in seven years rather than the usual eight. The first three years at Providence College offer a blend of liberal arts, basic and biological sciences which will prepare the student for professional study. The four years at the New England College of Optometry (NECO) provide the course work required to complete the Providence College baccalaureate degree in biology, as well as the professional training required for the doctoral degree in optometry. The combined program is designed for the academically outstanding student who has a strong and realistic motivation toward the optometric profession. Applicants must be superior high school students, especially in math and science, with acceptable SAT or ACT scores. Applicants will be interviewed by representatives of Providence College and The New England College of Optometry. Providence College affiliation with Simmons School of Nursing and Health Sciences Providence College and Simmons School of Nursing and Health Sciences have established an articulation agreement to accelerate the admission of qualified undergraduates into the Direct Entry Nursing Program at Simmons College. The agreement is meant to facilitate preferred admission to the graduate nursing program for up to five qualified Providence College students each year who meet the following requirements: BA or BS degree from Providence College Completion of the 7 prerequisite courses:1 semester each of : General Chemistry with lab Organic Chemistry with lab Human Anatomy with lab Physiology with lab Microbiology with lab Statistics (either MTH 217 or the two semester sequence in Psychology: PSY 201-202) Developmental Psychology (SWK 253: Human Behavior through the Lifespan) A minimum overall GPA of 3.0 at P.C. A minimum prerequisite science GPA of 3.3 at PC Submission of all application materials by February 1 for entry to the term beginning the next summer (late June/early July) Five students who meet these requirements will be considered for preferred admission. If more than five wish to apply, the P.C. Advisor for Health Professions will recommend students who should be considered. Students who do not meet the requirements may still apply to Simmons via the standard application process. For those students applying for preferred admission, the School for Health Science will offer the following: Waive the application fee Candidates will receive preferred admission but will not compete with the rest of the applicant pool Candidates who earn a 3.5 GPA in the prerequisites and overall, will receive a Dean’s Scholarship Providence College affiliation with Johnson and Wales University Center for Physician Assistant Studies The articulation agreement between Providence College and Johnson and Wales Center for Physician Assistant Studies facilitates preferred admission for up to six qualified students each year. Interested students must complete eleven prerequisite courses in all, ten of which must be completed by December of the year they apply. These courses are: Human Anatomy Physiology eight credits of General Chemistry and Organic Chemistry eight credits of Biology three credits of math six credits of behavioral science and six credits of English (satisfied through our core curriculum.) Eligible students must have a GPA of 3.30 or higher both overall and for prerequisite courses. In addition, students must meet additional requirements for admission into the program, including 250 hours of direct patient contact hours and PA shadowing hours. Qualified candidates who apply through the affiliation agreement are guaranteed an admissions interview. NYITCOM Early Admission Program Our agreement with New York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine (NYITCOM) affords qualified Providence College students the opportunity for an early interview and consideration for admission. This agreement is for entrance to both NYITCOM campuses – Jonesboro, Arkansas and Old Westbury, New York. Students interested in this agreement must apply to medical school after the completion of their junior year for the opportunity to interview in early fall of their senior year and must meet the following criteria: Overall GPA of 3.5 MCAT taken no later than June 30th preceding their senior year and with a score equal to or above the mean MCAT for NYIT of the year they began their undergraduate schooling. Completion of the following courses 8 credits of biology (course and lab) 8 hours of inorganic and organic chemistry (course and lab) 8 hours of physics (course and lab) With no grade below a “C” in above courses A favorable recommendation from the Health Professions Advisory Committee. This agreement does not guarantee admission for students who are granted an early interview. Contact Us Lynne M. Lawson, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Engineering-Physics-Systems Advisor for the Health Professions SCI 105 Phone: 401.865.1989 Fax: 401.865.1438 llawson@providence.edu 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site