Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Quality and Patient Satisfaction Stamps Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care and demonstrates this commitment through an on-going process of self-evaluation, peer review, and education to continuously improve its care and services. The goal is to provide students with the best possible health care. Our students’ healthcare matters. Stamps Health Services is accredited by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care, Inc. (AAAHC). AAAHC is a private, non-profit organization formed in 1979 to assist ambulatory health care organizations in improving the quality of care provided to patients. It accomplishes this by establishing, reviewing, and revising standards, measuring performance and providing consultation and education. Accreditation by AAAHC means that Stamps Health Services has undergone a thorough, independent survey of its policies and practices against nationally-recognized standards. The accreditation process involves self-assessment by the organization, followed by an on-site review conducted by AAAHC surveyors, who are themselves health care professionals. For our students, it provides comforting reassurance that they will receive high-quality care when they need it. Click here to see the 2019 Annual Quality Report To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Patient Satisfaction Surveys We expect to be accountable to students and the larger GT community through regular patient satisfaction surveys and internal performance standards. Our patient satisfaction survey has been utilized for several years as an important tool for patient feedback, resulting in improved patient experiences and quality of care. The survey is sent out at 5:15 PM every day (M – F). The link to the survey is emailed to every patient who had an appointment that day in every clinic. Click here to view the 2020 Annual Patient Satisfaction Report To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Service Excellence Stamps Health Services is committed to providing outstanding service to our customers on a consistent basis. Provision of exceptional customer service requires that staff exhibit positive behavior and attitude. Collectively the staff of Stamps strives to be knowledgeable, courteous, welcoming, friendly and accommodating to assist the GT community in accessing and obtaining the materials, information, and services they are seeking. We will accomplish by adopting the following Service Excellence Standards: Service Driven, Team Players, Accountable, Motivated, Positive, & Successful Complaints and Grievances If you would like to report a complaint or grievance please contact the Director, Health Operations, at 404-894-0074 or john.scuderi@health.gatech.edu. Need Assistance? Call us at (404) 894-1420 Schedule an appointment online Refill a prescription online Use our online support form After Hours Sign up for the Health Initiatives monthly newsletter here. Visit the contact page Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login