Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Athletic Training Graduate Programs research for practice Cultural competency training for ATs Life's passion Robinson receives NATA scholarship > Athletic Training > Athletic Training Graduate Programs https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ ATHLETIC TRAINING Athletic Training Graduate Program Admission and Progression Athletic Training Facilities Faculty Contact the Department Request Information Athletic trainers are healthcare professionals who work closely with physicians to not only administer preventive and emergency injury care for athletes and physically active individuals, but also follow through by setting up the treatment regimen and rehabilitation protocol. There are currently two routes to obtaining an athletic training degree from The University of Tulsa: a five-year accelerated Bachelor’s to Master’s program, and a two-year Post-Baccalaureate master’s program. Athletic training students of both programs gain experience under the direct supervision of faculty and professional staff, all of whom are BOC certified and Oklahoma licensed athletic trainers. These experiences take place in a variety of settings including Division 1 athletics at The University of Tulsa, orthopedic clinics, high schools and occupational/industrial settings as a part of the required supervised practice. Students may also have the opportunity to work with professional sports teams and other special events. 100%: That’s the proportion of our spring 2020 MAT program graduates who passed their Board of Certification exams in spring/summer 2020. These first-time test-takers studied hard, rose to the challenge and are now well on the road to career success. Program Objectives Overview Employment of athletic trainers is projected to grow 21 percent through 2028, which is faster than the average for all occupations. Most career opportunities for certified athletic trainers are found in sports medicine/orthopedic clinics, universities, colleges, high schools and industrial settings. Historically, athletic trainers have worked with athletes in organized sports. In the traditional setting, the athletic trainer must work closely with the coaching staff, the team physician and the athlete to coordinate an effective rehabilitation program. In recent years, the profession has branched out, and now athletic trainers provide services to recreational athletes and others injured due to physical activity, such as accidents in the workplace. Certified athletic trainers are employed by the military, Cirque du Soleil, Ford, Disneyland and other corporations to provide rehabilitation services to injured employees and to develop and implement prevention. Mission Statement The mission of the Athletic Training program is to prepare students for professional service in a health care setting and provide opportunities for professional assimilation and involvement, while instilling an understanding of the importance of life-long learning. The mission will be achieved through the following goals and learning outcomes. Goals Promote high levels of professional and ethical conduct Prepare students to successfully pass the BOC Certification Examination Prepare students for an entry-level position in athletic training Provide unique opportunities for interprofessional education Learning Outcomes Demonstrate professional and ethical behaviors. Demonstrate proficiency in prevention, immediate care, and management of injuries. Demonstrate proficiency in performing clinical evaluations and diagnosis. Demonstrate proficiency in designing and executing treatment, rehabilitation, and reconditioning plans. Understanding of professional responsibility for continuous development and education. Demonstrate aptitude in utilizing clinical analysis and providing appropriate responses. Demonstrate the ability to utilize research in clinical practice decisions. Degree Options Athletic Training, M.A.T. Provides structured classroom and supervised practice experiences to prepare a student for an entry-level position in athletic training. Athletic Training, M.A.T. (Accelerated Master’s) Designed so that highly motivated students can begin earning hours towards a Master of Athletic Training (M.A.T.) while completing a Bachelor of Science in Exercise and Sports Science (B.S.E.S.S.) Degree Plan Athletic Training Degree Plan The athletic training major consists of 55 credit hours which are inclusive of the latest research, knowledge, and techniques, as well all required NATA Athletic Training Education Competencies in the following areas: Evidence-Based Practice Prevention and Health Promotion Clinical Examination and Diagnosis Acute Care of Injury and Illness Therapeutic Interventions Psychosocial Strategies and Referral Healthcare Administration Professional Development and Responsibility The program is designed to provide structured didactic (classroom) and supervised practice experiences to prepare a student for an entry-level position in athletic training. Didactic courses are sequenced and integrated to maximize student learning. Master of Athletic Training courses are must be taken in sequence (see Master of Athletic Training degree plan). Students enroll in supervised practices courses which correspond with specific didactic and practicum courses. The purpose of supervised practice courses is to provide a structured clinical experience in which to prepare for professional practice and engage in professional socialization. Throughout the Master of Athletic Training, supervised practice courses provide direct patient care opportunities for a variety of injuries and patient populations including contact (high risk) & non-contact sports, male & female patients, upper extremity & lower extremity injuries, sport & non-sport settings, and general medical conditions. Students gain clinical experience in the following settings: Collegiate TU, an NCAA Division I school that competes in the American Athletic Conference Oral Roberts University Various Local high schools including Union, Owasso, Broken Arrow, Metro Christian Academy, Bishop Kelley High School and Bixby High School Eastern Oklahoma Orthopedic Center – a local sports medicine clinic General Medical – through rotations with sports medicine fellows. Other special events In all clinical rotations, students are supervised by BOC certified and Oklahoma licensed athletic trainers. Most students work one on one with their preceptor in the clinical setting. Athletic training students also gain experience with emergency situations and general medical conditions through clinical simulation scenarios which utilize METIMan, a human patient simulator, in our simulation center. BSESS + MAT Program BSESS + MAT Program FRESHMAN – FALL HRS FRESHMAN – SPRING HRS FRESHMAN – SUMMER HRS ENGL 1033 Exposition & Argumentation 3 BIOL 1703 Molecular and Celluar Biology 3 MATH 1163 Pre-Calculus 3 BIOL 1711 Molecular and Cellular Biology Lab 1 ATRG 1013 Concepts & Issues in Sports Science 3 ATRG 2603 Strategies for Health Living 3 ATRG 1001 Orientation 1 BUS 1013 Business & Society (BLOCK II) 3 BIOL 1603 Org and Evol Biology 3 CHEM 1013 General Chemistry I 3 BIOL 1611 Org and Evol Biology Lab 1 CHEM 1011 General Chemistry I Lab 1 BLOCK I 3 BLOCK II 3 CIS 1001 Intro to Spreadsheets 1 TOTAL HOURS 18 17 SOPHOMORE – FALL SOPHOMORE – SPRING SOPHOMORE - SUMMER BIOL 2153 Human Anatomy 3 BIOL 2171 Human Physiology Lab 3 BIOL 2151 Human Anatomy Lab 1 BIOL 2171 Human Physiology Lab 1 PSY 2253 Foundations of Psychology 3 ATRG 2023 Anatomy and Kinesiology 3 BLOCK II (NSG 2123 recommended) 3 ATRG 2021 Anatomy and Kinesiology Lab 1 PHYS 1013 Introductory Physics I 3 BLOCK II 3 PHYS 1011 Introductory Physics I lab 1 Elective 3 ATRG 2451 Practicum I 1 BLOCK I 3 ATRG 2563 Sports Nutrition 3 TOTAL HOURS 18 18 JUNIOR – FALL HRS JUNIOR – SPRING HRS JUNIOR – SUMMER Statistics: PSY2023/STAT2013/QM2013/AHS 2013 3 ATRG 4713 Biomechanics 3 ATRG 5116 Preventative, Immediate, and Emergent Care of Injury 6 ATRG 3713 Development of Strength and Cond. Programs 3 ATRG 3000/4000 Level Elective (Legal Aspects or Apps in ExSS Recommended) 3 ATRG 5143 Foundations of Therapeutic Intervention 3 ATRG 3023 Exercise Physiology 3 ATRG 3513 Clinical Methodology 3 ATRG 3121 Exercise Physiology Lab 1 PSY 3063 Developmental Psychology 3 ENGL 3003 Writing for the Professions 3 AHS 4043 Intro to Applied Health Research 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 ATRG 2802 Practicum II 2 TOTAL HOURS 18 18 9 PROFESSIONAL 1: FALL SEMESTER HRS PROFESSIONAL 1: SPRING SEMESTER HRS PROFESSIONAL 1: SUMMER ATRG 5216 Clinical Evaluation and Therapeutic Intervention I (w/ lab) 6 ATRG 7316 Clinical Evaluation and Therapeutic Intervention II (w/ lab) 6 ATRG 7416 Clinical Evaluation and Therapeutic Intervention III (w/ lab) 6 ATRG 7712 Supervised Practice I 2 ATRG 7722 Supervised Practice II 2 ATRG 7423 Psychosocial Strategies and Referral 3 ATRG 5223 Research for Practice 3 ATRG 7323 Pathophysiology 3 TOTAL HOURS 11 11 9 PROFESSIONAL 2: FALL SEMESTER HRS PROFESSIONAL 2: SPRING SEMESTER HRS PROFESSIONAL 2: SUMMER ATRG 7513 Administration & Leadership in Athletic Training 3 ATRG 7613 Athletic Training Seminar 3 ATRG 7732 Supervised Practice III 2 ATRG 7744 Supervised Practice IV 4 Health Care Delivery Sciences/Elective 3 TOTAL HOURS 8 7 MAT Program FALL SEMESTER HRS SPRING SEMESTER HRS SUMMER HRS Program Admission ATRG 7116 Preventative, Immediate, and Emergent Care of Injury 6 ATRG 7143 Foundations of Therapeutic Intervention 3 9 PROFESSIONAL 1: FALL SEMESTER PROFESSIONAL 1: SPRING SEMESTER PROFESSIONAL 1: SUMMER ATRG 7216 Clinical Evaluation and Therapeutic Intervention I (w/ lab) 6 ATRG 7316 Clinical Evaluation and Therapeutic Intervention II (w/ lab) 6 ATRG 7416 Clinical Evaluation and Therapeutic Intervention III (w/ lab) 6 ATRG 7712 Supervised Practice I 2 ATRG 7722 Supervised Practice II 2 ATRG 7423 Psychosocial Strategies and Referral 3 ATRG 7223 Research for Practice 3 ATRG 7323 Pathophysiology 3 TOTAL HOURS 11 11 9 PROFESSIONAL 2: FALL SEMESTER HRS PROFESSIONAL 2: SPRING SEMESTER HRS ATRG 7513 Administration & Leadership in Athletic Training 3 ATRG 7613 Athletic Training Seminar 3 ATRG 7732 Supervised Practice III 2 ATRG 7744 Supervised Practice IV 4 Health Care Delivery Sciences/Elective 3 TOTAL HOURS 8 7 Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose 2 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential. Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results Health/Safety Requirements Physical Exam and Medical History: Students must submit documentation of a recent physical examination by a physician of the student’s choice. Written Technical Standards: The written technical standards verify that the student is capable of meeting minimum standards relating to physical, mental, and emotional health with or without accommodations. The student must read and sign this form. Students who require accommodation to meet the technical standards must submit appropriate documentation to the Center for Student Academic Support and obtain verification so that the program can provide reasonable accommodation. This form must be completed prior to beginning coursework in the MAT. Health Requirements: Prior to beginning supervised professional practice experiences and annually thereafter, students must complete online training in blood-borne pathogens, HIPAA, the Right to Know (OSHA communication standard), and TB prevention. Prior to beginning supervised professional practice experiences and annually thereafter, students are required to present proof of the following immunizations and screenings to the Department of Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences: TB test (using CDC guidelines for two step method or chest X-ray), measles, mumps, rubella (MMR), diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (TdaP), hepatitis B, varicella and flu. These may be done at the Alexander Health Center on campus for a fee or at a private physician’s office. For some immunizations, a declination waiver may be signed in lieu of immunization records. Criminal Background Check: Students are required to submit to a criminal background check upon formal admission to the program as required by the contract with off-campus clinical agencies. This will allow proper placement of students for supervised professional practice rotations. Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR): Students must provide documentation of current CPR Certification upon completion of ATRG 4116/6116 and must maintain continuous certification throughout the remainder of the program. Liability Insurance: Liability insurance is required for all students who have been formally accepted into the athletic training program. Liability insurance policy premium fees are automatically billed to the student’s account through the University Business Office. Transportation and Uniforms: Students are responsible for providing their own transportation to off-campus clinical sites and are required to buy their own uniforms (some uniforms will be provided by the athletic department), in accordance with the program dress code. (See ATRG Student Handbook for dress code.) Students are required to review and understand the Communicable Disease Policy as stated in the Student Clinical Handbook. Please read here Communicable Disease Policy. Program Fees *Drug test screen is only required by the program if needed for clinical placement. *Students may show immunization compliance with submissions of immunization form.* Course Fees: Annual Immunizations: Immunizations upon expiration: ATRG 5116/7716 $90 ATRG 5216/7216 $80 ATRG 7746 – BOC Self-Assessment Exam. $30 approx. E-Medley Fee $250 Castlebranch Fee $101 CPR for Prof Res/BLS Healthcare Provider $30 approx. Athletic Training Apprentice Licensure - initial $65 (licensure & criminal background check) Athletic Training Apprentice Licensure - renewal $15 Criminal Background Check $25 (some states require an additional fee) Liability Insurance $25 billed to account each semester Transportation to off-campus rotation site Cost varies Participation in professional conference Cost Varies Immunizations Cost varies TB test Cost varies ($8 at Alexander Health Center) annually Flu Shot $25 MMR-Adult $70 Varicella (documentation or 2 immunizations) $220 Hepatitis B (waiver or 3 immunizations) $150 TDaP Adult $35 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT