Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Workforce Sub Navigation In This Section Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Workforce As workplaces adjust to new ways of working, Brown is supporting employees in flexible work arrangements when the functions of a position allows. Principles Guiding Workplace Flexibility Maintaining Brown’s strong sense of community and the University’s collaborative environment is a priority in its approach to a flexible workplace. The experiences of the pandemic have demonstrated that, while many job functions can be performed remotely, it is extremely difficult to maintain the levels of collaboration, collegiality and sense of community that are core to Brown’s culture without being physically together. One of Brown’s great strengths is that it has a people-centered culture. Professional and personal relationships within and across academic and administrative units are vitally important to the functioning of the University. Newer employees learn from established employees through formal and informal mentoring. Students benefit from the personal relationships they establish with Brown faculty and staff. And the chance encounters and organic conversations that arise in unplanned interactions throughout the workday and outside of scheduled meetings promote collaboration and innovation. Even as we recognize the flexibility of some remote work, we are sensitive to the reality that our people-centered culture cannot easily be nurtured, cultivated or sustained via screens. Options for Flexible Work Arrangements Many employees in essential on-site functions have been working on campus throughout the entire pandemic, while others have returned in recent months. Although many currently-remote employees are eager to return to campus, others would like the option of choosing a hybrid or remote schedule. For faculty, the provost has outlined a process for applying for exceptions to the requirement that faculty be on campus for normal in-person attendance to perform their regular duties, including advising and mentoring students and participating in University and departmental activities and events. While the majority of previously-remote employees returned to full-time campus work before the start of the Fall 2021 term, the University created the possibility for some staff jobs to be done in hybrid or remote fashion in cases where alternative ways of working do not negatively affect academic or administrative operations or disrupt the ability of others to do their work. The University has established three classifications for staff positions: entirely on-site (not eligible for a hybrid or remote fixed work schedule), hybrid eligible (eligible to request a mixed on-site and remote work schedule) remote eligible (in very rare cases, eligible to request an entirely remote work arrangement). Staff in eligible positions will be able to request an alternative work schedule through the University’s expanded and enhanced Alternative Work Assignments (AWA) policy. All requests will be subject to the approval of supervisors. Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Resources The University is committed to providing support and training to guide employees throughout this period. Department heads have been encouraged to engage in conversations about the transition and plan for phased re-entry, and University Human Resources is providing resources to help supervisors work with staff to adjust to this time of significant change. The following information and resources are being provided help support employees: UHR Talent Development has made training resources available for employees focused on transitioning back to on-site and hybrid work. The teams in UHR-Benefits and UHR-Worklife/Wellness have resources and programs for helping with change and transition, including access to counselors from the Faculty/Staff Assistance Program, backup childcare, elder care, and other resources. The Ombuds Office offers a safe, informal place to discuss matters or raise a concern confidentially. Email ombuds@brown.edu or call 401-863-6145 to make an appointment. Employees can leave a message anonymously and provide times when they would like to receive a call back or have an appointment. Staff-related inquiries about the transition can be emailed to University Human Resources at universityhr@brown.edu. Last updated Jan. 15, 2022. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Workforce Open details for Workforce Bookmark this Page