Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Gender-affirming Surgery Consultation Gender-affirming Surgery Consultation What is gender-affirming surgery? Gender-affirming surgery is a term referring to any surgical procedures intended to help someone feel more comfortable in their body from a gender perspective, including chest (“top”) and genital (“bottom”) surgery, as well as nipple reconstruction, tracheal shave, among others. Planning for surgery can feel exciting and/or intimidating. It is not unusual for the process to take months, or even a year, from the start of planning to the surgery itself. Columbia Health’s Transgender and Gender Expansive Team (TGET) offers support throughout this process - whether it’s providing information about finding a surgeon, getting referrals and necessary letters of support, understanding insurance coverage and other financial considerations, creating a post-surgery aftercare plan, or providing space for exploring your thoughts and feelings. Getting Started Students interested in gender-affirming surgery may begin the process by consulting with TGET members at Medical Services or Counseling and Psychological Services. Insurance Coverage The Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan (the Columbia Plan) includes benefits for surgery. Students on the Columbia Plan (administered by Aetna) may contact the Insurance Office for support around navigating questions about surgery coverage and related requirements. Some students who pursue surgery begin the process with knowledge of particular surgeons and procedures; regardless of one's knowledge level, a consultation with the staff at the Insurance Office will provide students with accurate information about coverage and helpful facts about the process. More Resources for Transgender and Non-Binary Students Visit our Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Care Services page to see a full list of services. Make an Appointment Medical Services Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Counseling & Psychological Services Closed Sorry, our offices are currently closed. If you are experiencing high levels of distress and are in need of immediate assistance, please call 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Gay Health Advocacy Project Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty LGBTQ Counseling Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close