Skip to main content University of California, Riverside School of Medicine UCR Home More from us... Dept. of Social Medicine, Population, & Public Health UCR School of Medicine Search UC Riverside School of Medicine Center for Healthy Communities Collaborating With Inland Empire Communities to Improve Health Outcomes Search Home About About Overview Mission and Vision Background and History Black Lives Matter/Statement of Solidarity What is Community-Engaged Research? Download our 2020 Impact Report Faculty and Staff Our Projects Project Overview Stop COVID-19 Project Community Air Quality Project Community Conversations: Changing Systems, Challenging Attitudes Gathering of Good Minds Project HIV & Aging Research Project - Palm Springs Voicing Collegiate Recovery USMex (United States-Mexico) Unidos por Salud News Community Health News CHC News Archive Mini-Grants Program UCR Home More from us... Dept. of Social Medicine, Population, & Public Health UCR School of Medicine Center for Healthy Communities at UCRSOM Breadcrumb Read the Black Lives Matter/Statement of Solidarity from the Center for Healthy Communities The Center for Healthy Communities at UC Riverside The School of Medicine’s Center for Healthy Communities (CHC) promotes research to improve the health of medically underserved, culturally, and economically diverse communities in the Inland Empire The Center for Healthy Communities is administered by the UCR School of Medicine's Department of Social Medicine, Population and Public Health (SMPPH). Learn about our Projects Visit the SMPPH website Center for Healthy Communities 2020-21 Impact Report Now Available The 2020-21 Center for Healthy Communities Impact Report is now available for download as a PDF. This document shows how the CHC serves the needs of the Inland Empire's culturally, linguistically and economically diverse communities and how we bridge the gaps to improve health outcomes in those communities. Download the Impact Report Get Involved: Join our ListServ The CHC connects people who are interested in public health, community-based and community-partnered research in the Inland Empire. Interested in joining the ListServ? Email chc@medsch.ucr.edu Joining Our Team The Social Medicine, Population and Public Health department is recruiting talent with medical degrees or doctorates in the fields of public health, sociology, anthropology, psychology and economics to serve as faculty in the center. Visit AP Recruit for faculty positions Visit UCR Jobs site for staff positions Student Research Experiences Students interested in community-based research opportunities with the CHC, please download CHC Student Research Assistant Form, complete and send CV or resume to chc@medsch.ucr.edu. Download the CHC Student Research Assistant Form Center for Healthy Communities News March 04, 2022 Novel interventions needed for healthy aging with HIV Review paper identifies barriers faced by older people living with HIV Read More » February 09, 2022 Grant to fund health interventions in immigrant communities Researchers Ann Cheney and Evelyn Vázquez in the UCR School of Medicine’s Department of Social Medicine, Population, and Public Health have received $113,514 in funding from the Desert Healthcare District and Foundation Board for a project that will “mitigate psychological trauma and mental health disparities in immigrant communities during the COVID-19 pandemic.” Read More » December 06, 2021 Mini-Grant Program Names Recipients for 2021-22 The Community Medicine and Population Health Mini-Grant program, sponsored by the UCR School of Medicine's Center for Healthy Communities, has announced its recipients for the 2021-22 academic year. Read More » November 23, 2021 Deafness trumps HIV for deaf people living with HIV UC Riverside-led study participants advocate for collection of more data on deaf individuals Read More » Read more news Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Center for Healthy Communities 3333 14th Street Riverside, Calif. 92501 tel: (951) 715-2700 email: chc@medsch.ucr.edu Related Links Center for Healthy Communities Division of Biomedical Sciences Health Professions Advising Center Medical School Intranet The Thomas Haider Program at the UCR School of Medicine UCR School of Medicine Compliance Office Follow US: Visit the CHC Facebook Page Follow CHC on Twitter Visit UCRSOM's YouTube channel Follow CHC on Instagram Subscribe to UCR SOM News at UCR Today Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel