Skip to Main Content Brown University Health & Wellness Health Services Secondary Navigation Navigation Parents & Families Patient Portal Search Menu Site Navigation Home Services Appointments Health Requirements New Undergraduate Students New Graduate Students New Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions Request Medical Records Fees & Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) About Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Search Health & Wellness Health Services April 25, 2022 Planning for Care Post-Graduation Announcements All of us at Health and Wellness congratulate you on approaching the completion of your education and experiences at Brown University. Many of you have received care or prescription medication through the departments of Health and Wellness. Please take some time to prepare for your commencement and transition coming in the weeks and months ahead. We urge you to review the following checklist of personal health considerations in anticipation of moving onward from Brown University. Speak with your primary care clinician or primary therapist at Health and Wellness about transitioning your care to a new provider. After May 15th : You can still use Health Services or CAPS, however, if you need to pay for services/medical equipment (e.g. x-ray, pharmacy, crutches) you will no longer be able to charge your Bursar bill. You may pay by cash, check, Bear Bucks, or credit card. After May 29th: You will no longer be eligible for services at Health Services or CAPS; however, we can help coordinate your follow up care. Clarify how long your current health insurance policy will continue to cover your healthcare needs after your graduation date (or date of leaving Brown). Students covered by Brown's Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP)/United Healthcare: you are covered by SHIP until August 14, 2022. Visit this link for details about insurance coverage. Students with SHIP may access HealthiestYou until August 14, 2022. Create a plan to ensure that you have sufficient medication and refills to tide you over until you have a new prescriber. Communicate now with any community-based healthcare providers including specialists, therapists, or counselors about your transition to a new primary care provider or new geographic location. Make any necessary appointments with healthcare providers or support services here at Brown to plan for your transition to a new setting, or to have the time, space, and opportunity for a final visit. Download your immunization history, any lab results or health education sheets via your patient portal for your personal records, as secure messaging will be unavailable post-graduation. Obtain any overdue immunizations (e.g. Tetanus) that may be outstanding while still enrolled at Brown. Consider speaking with your counselor or therapist about signing an ROI (release of information) form permitting them to share information with a new clinician. Perhaps take the opportunity to say goodbye to anyone that has been particularly meaningful or supportive to you during your journey at Brown. We wish you the very best of health, wellbeing, and happiness in all of your future experiences. Brown University Health and Wellness Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Services Appointments Health Requirements New Undergraduate Students New Graduate Students New Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions Request Medical Records Fees & Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) About Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Parents & Families Patient Portal This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Planning for Care Post-Graduation Open details for Planning for Care Post-Graduation Bookmark this Page