Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search For Students & Postdocs On this page, you will find information related to COVID-19 for all Stanford students and postdocs. Please follow links on this page for answers to frequently asked questions specific to undergrads, grad students and postdocs. Postdocs and grad students might also be interested in additional information for researchers and instructors/TAs. Current status As of May 27 Face coverings are required in classrooms pending further assessment; however, individuals may remove face coverings while speaking. We encourage everyone to respect the choices that individuals make about their own masking. Color and rapid testing remain available to all students at these locations. Dining halls offer indoor dining at full capacity, with Clean Dining protocols. Weekly asymptomatic surveillance testing for vaccinated faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars and for fully vaccinated and boosted students (undergraduates, graduate students and students enrolled in professional degree programs) has been suspended, effective March 1, 2022. Twice-weekly testing continues to be required for faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars who are not fully vaccinated, and for students who are not fully vaccinated and boosted. Color testing continues to be available, up to two tests per week, for anyone who wishes to continue to use Color for regular asymptomatic testing. Testing is strongly recommended whenever you are experiencing symptoms, concerned about possible exposure or returning to campus from travel. Dashboards provide aggregated results for the Stanford community. See the Testing page for more information. Stanford is following a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery. Health Check to self-report health status is required for employees and postdocs working in-person at a Stanford facility. Daily Health Check submissions are not required for faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars coming to campus who are fully vaccinated for COVID-19 (documentation uploaded on Health Check) or fully vaccinated students on campus (documentation on the Vaden Health Portal) unless they become symptomatic, have a positive COVID test or are exposed to household members who have tested positive. Training on COVID hygiene is required before returning to work at a campus location for the first time. Face coverings. With certain exceptions, face coverings are no longer required but continue to be strongly recommended on-site, regardless of vaccination status. Face coverings are required in classrooms through the beginning of spring quarter; however, individuals may remove face coverings while speaking. We encourage everyone to respect the choices that individuals make about their own masking. Information on student gatherings is available. Effective Oct. 8, indoor student parties are permitted, provided they follow university and public health guidelines. Guests from outside the Stanford community are permitted to visit student residences effective October 8. Guests must comply with the Residence Agreement and follow the university’s COVID-19 visitor policy, including completion of the Stanford Visitor: Daily COVID-19 Health Attestation, which requires 1) being fully vaccinated against COVID-19, or 2) taking a COVID-19 test no sooner than 72 hours prior to the visit and receiving a negative test result. Additional information on visiting scholars, researchers, nonmatriculated students and other visitors is available here and here. New postdoctoral scholars coming from outside Stanford, and current scholars returning from travel must follow relevant travel guidance that specifies how and when they may be approved for campus access. Vaccinated scholars arriving from domestic locations should register with Health Check and Color and begin surveillance testing. Vaccinated scholars, including continuing scholars, arriving from international locations should register with Health Check and Color, and test on Day 0 and Day 5 before coming to campus for business purposes (note that they may come to pick up and drop off their tests). Unvaccinated scholars are not permitted unrestricted campus access until they submit a negative COVID test taken at least 5 days after arriving in California and are vaccinated or in compliance with the enhanced testing program for unvaccinated staff. An overview of all current policies and status regarding COVID-19 is available here. Relevant policy information Related announcements Related FAQs for… Undergraduate students Graduate students Postdoctoral scholars Frequently asked questions for… Undergraduate students Find information and resources for learning remotely, housing and dining, spring quarter, commencement, and other topics. Learning remotelyHousing & diningTuition Spring quarterGraduatingHelp & support See all FAQs for undergraduate students Graduate students Find information and resources for research, learning remotely, housing, spring quarter, and other topics of interest to grad students. ResearchLearning remotelySpring quarterHousing & diningHelp & support See all FAQs for graduate students Postdoctoral scholars Find information and resources for research continuity, lab practices, prevention, and other topics of interest to postdocs. Research continuityFunding & grantsPreventionHelp & support See all FAQs for postdoctoral scholars Additional resources for students & postdocs Attending class online Here’s an excellent resource with advice on Internet connections, add/drop, and more. Learn how to attend classes online using Zoom in Canvas. The Office of Community Standards has posted these tips for remote learning and the Honor Code. The Learning Hub can help with home Internet access options. Find more resources at learnanywhere.stanford.edu. Financial resources The Student Services Center and the Financial Aid Office are operating virtually and ready to help students. Mind Over Money has developed a spring 2020 budget worksheet and money management tool. Staying connected and active Vaden’s new Well-Being Resources website was designed to support student well-being this spring. Stanford Recreation and Wellness has published a roundup of online yoga, meditation and other fun activities. The Haas Center for Public Service is encouraging students to stay active. Currently open virtually: Community centers First Generation and/or Low Income Office Fraternity and Sorority Life office Office of Military Affiliated Communities Office of Student Engagement Timely information on other student services Vaden Medical Services Vaden asks all students seeking medical services to call 650-498-2336 and speak with a medical professional before heading to the clinic to keep patients and providers safe. Dean of Students Contact Dean of Students Mona Hicks at deanofstudents@stanford.edu if you’re waiting for or have received COVID-19 test results. This is both to connect you to university resources that can support you, and to help the university assess the impacts of the virus in our community. Resident Directors Our RDs are available to help undergraduates with personal concerns. For immediate assistance, contact the RD on call at 650-504-8022 Graduate Life Office (GLO) Deans GLO is available to help grad students with personal concerns. For immediate assistance: Text the GLO pager at 25085@pageme.stanford.edu. Include your name and reason for paging in the message. Call the GLO pager at 650-723-7288. You will reach a Stanford operator. Provide pager ID #25085 and indicate that you need to reach the graduate dean-on-call. Academic Advising Undergraduate students can contact their Academic Advising Director, AARC Advisor, or Specialist Advisor. Graduate students should keep in touch with your advisor and/or department. Office of Accessible Education OAE Connect is a new online platform for students requesting educational and other accommodations. Schwab Learning Center SLC’s learning specialists and tutors are available on Zoom. Student Services Center The SSC helps students with Registrar’s Office, Student Financial Services and Graduate Admissions questions and issues. For the quickest response, submit a ServiceNow ticket. Bechtel International Center International students and scholars are encouraged to consult with Bechtel about travel concerns, remote coursework, leaves of absence, optional practical training and more. Residential & Dining Enterprises R&DE has updated its website with current information on campus housing and dining. BEAM Career Education BEAM has compiled a spring 2020 FAQ to help students keep their future in focus wherever they are this spring and summer. The Office for Religious Life The Office for Religious Life is offering virtual gatherings, podcasts, videos and daily reflections. See FAQs for Undergraduate students Graduate students Postdoctoral scholars On this page Relevant policy information Attending classes online Financial resources Staying connected and active Timely information on other student services Testing, prevention & care What should I do if I'm feeling ill? Where can I get tested? How do I get vaccinated? Personal care & prevention Campus hygiene Social distancing protocol Report test results/symptoms Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Learn remotely Attend classes online Research continuity Learn about resources for COVID-19 research continuity Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.