Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Campus Activity Status Sub Navigation In This Section Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Campus Activity Status This page provides a summary of current COVID-19 health protocols on the Brown University campus. The COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy reflects current medical and health guidance, regulations of the State of Rhode Island and public health conditions. The policy is an important foundation governing the activities of the entire campus, and all members of the community should carefully review and fully understand the updated policy and their individual responsibilities and obligations. Summary information regarding the current health protocols in place can be found below. What is Required COVID-19 VACCINATION AND BOOSTER Employees and students are required to be “up to date” with COVID-19 vaccines.. Up to date with COVID-19 Vaccine(s) is defined as a person who has received all recommended COVID-19 vaccines, including any booster dose(s) when eligible. For example, an individual is up to date when they have received a full course of a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or World Health Organization (WHO) authorized COVID-19 vaccine, and any booster dose(s) when eligible. Details regarding this policy and how to comply with the requirements can be found on the Vaccinations page. COVID-19 TESTING Testing is mandatory for all employees and students with approved exemptions from vaccination, and optional for all other employees, undergraduate, graduate and medical students who are on campus. Testing requirements and frequency are detailed on the Testing and Tracing page. We strongly advise individuals to take a rapid antigen test prior to attending large indoor gatherings. MASK WEARING Required masking indoors: All individuals – regardless of vaccination status – must wear a well-fitting KN95, KF94, N95 or disposable/surgical mask indoors, unless in a private, non-shared space (e.g., office or dorm room) or when actively eating or drinking. Masks can be removed indoors by a speaker while making a presentation or delivering a speech. Carry an approved mask at all times. Acceptable masks on the Brown University campus include KN95, KF94, N95 or disposable/surgical masks. Cloth masks generally do not provide adequate protection and are only acceptable if used over a disposable mask to improve the fit. SOCIAL DISTANCING The following social distancing standards should be followed by individuals with approved exemptions from vaccination on the Brown campus: Individuals with approved exemptions indoors: Wear a mask and maintain a 6-foot distance from others at all times (especially when actively eating and drinking, which requires removal of the mask). Individuals with approved exemptions outdoors: Maintain a 6-foot distance from others at all times; wear a mask if that is not possible. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Campus Activity Status Open details for Campus Activity Status Bookmark this Page