Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Quarantine and Isolation Support Quarantine and Isolation Support Columbia Health has designed a series of programs and services to support the well-being needs of Morningside students while in quarantine or isolation in New York. Expand all Collapse all Medical Support Symptom check-in (Medical Services) The Medical Services and/or Contact Tracing team will message all students in isolation and quarantine after exposure to COVID-19 to ask about symptoms and how they are feeling. For those in isolation, nurse case managers will also follow-up during this time and notify students immediately when they are clear to return to campus. Telephone symptom line (Medical Services) Phone. Students can call 212-854-7426 to ask about symptoms, available 24/7. Secure messaging. Exchange messages with your primary care provider at Columbia Health via the Patient Portal. Self-care kit Students moved to isolation or quarantine dormitories are provided a self-care kit. Students isolating or quarantining in place are encouraged to prepare a self-care kit. Items to put in this kit includes: Digital thermometer (for daily use) Hand sanitizer (for times you can’t wash) Alcohol wipes (for cleaning, as needed) Water bottle (stay hydrated!) Temperature and symptom log (the Isolation Guide and Quarantine Guide for students have logs on the last page that you may use) Virtual acupressure and integrative medicine support (Medical Services) In partnership with Pacific College of Health and Science (PCHS), students may avail of virtual acupressure and integrative medicine support while in isolation or quarantine. Virtual acupuncture includes a one-hour visit with a PCHS provider who will show you medical qigong exercises, dietary and life-style recommendations, and demonstrate acupressure techniques so you can use at anytime to address your complaints. Schedule a virtual acupuncture appointment via the Patient Portal (no referral required). Expand all Collapse all Mental Health Support Virtual support spaces (Counseling and Psychological Services) Virtual support spaces are available throughout the term on a variety of topics including trauma, creativity and resilience, specific ethnic and gender identities, mindfulness, and more. Virtual support spaces are open to students who have paid the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. Visit the Support Groups page to find a support space for a topic you are interested in. Online mental health resources Tools for Coping with Crisis and Self-Help Resources Tools for Coping with COVID-19 Virtual wellness workshops (Sexual Violence Response) Peace and Presence is a mindfulness series of diverse holistic wellness workshops for students. These sessions will explore non-verbal and experiential healing techniques, self-calming tools, and guide participants in incorporating mindfulness into one's daily life.   Trauma-Informed and Restorative Yoga, Voice Journey, and Drawing and Language are available on demand (recorded from previous sessions). Check the Events page for upcoming programs. Expand all Collapse all Services Telehealth Visits (Medical Services and Counseling and Psychological Services) Medical Services Students can avail themselves of primary care visits at no cost by phone or the HIPAA-compliant video conferencing platform Zoom Health. You can use a telehealth visit for routine and urgent medical care as well as general nutrition and eating disorders, sexual health services, reproductive and gynecological services, LGBTQ health care, and guidance on confidential HIV testing. Schedule a same-day appointment online via the Patient Portal or by calling 212-854-7426. Counseling and Psychological Services Students in quarantine or isolation arrange virtual mental health care at no cost via Zoom. Call 212-854-2878 to arrange an appointment. 24/7 year-round Access to a Survivor Advocate (Sexual Violence Response) Call 212-854-HELP (4357) to speak with a confidential advocate for crisis intervention, emotional support, exploring rights and options, seeking medical options, assistance with online temporary orders of protection, referrals, accompaniment to on or off-campus resources, either in-person or telephonically. This helpline is available to students from all affiliate schools. Virtual Appointments with Sexual Violence Response Call 212-854-3500 or email [email protected] to schedule a virtual appointment with one of our staff. These appointments are available to students from all affiliate schools. Academic Accommodations and Support Services (Disability Services) Disability Services will provide academic accommodations and support services for students in isolation and quarantine, such as test accommodations, e-text, note-taking, sign language interpretation, foreign language substitution, learning specialist sessions, CART, and captioning. Students must be registered with Disability Services to receive accommodations. Virtual Drop-in with Disability Services Disability Services offers virtual drop-in hours for registered and non-registered students. Drop-in hours allow for an individual 15-minute discussion between a Disability Services staff member and a student with a quick or urgent question. Visit the drop-in page for more information. Virtual appointments with Alice! Health Promotion Students can schedule virtual appointments with an Alice! Health Promotion Specialist to talk about stress, sleep, drug and alcohol use, and much more by emailing [email protected] with preferred dates and times. Students can also drop-in on the same day. COVID-19 RESOURCES University COVID-19 Website covid19.columbia.edu COVID-19 Test and Trace Program [email protected] Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Health Unit Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Sexual Violence Response Medical Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close