Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home News Columbia Plan members: At-home COVID-19 diagnostic tests available with no upfront costs Columbia Plan members: At-home COVID-19 diagnostic tests available with no upfront costs A message from Aetna Student Health, which administers the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. Effective 2/17/22: Aetna members can now pick up at-home COVID-19 tests at participating pharmacies, with no upfront costs. These COVID-19 tests, also called an over-the-counter test, can help you diagnose an infection and limit its spread to your family and community. Here’s what you need to know. What’s covered? Members are eligible for eight at-home COVID-19 tests per 30-day period for everyone covered under your plan. A prescription isn’t needed. Eligible tests must be authorized, cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. At-home COVID-19 tests must also be purchased on or after January 15, 2022. How to get your at-home COVID-19 tests covered? Your health plan will cover your at-home COVID-19 tests using your pharmacy benefits. The process to get your tests covered will vary based on where you buy your tests. 1. Order online at a CVS Pharmacy. Log on Aetna secure member website and proceed to the CVS Pharmacy website, or access directly from cvs.com or the CVS app. Click on “At-home COVID-19 OTC tests.” Enter zip code to find the closest CVS Pharmacy location with test inventory. Select “OTC tests” and enter the appropriate information from your insurance card. Place an order for store pick-up. 2. Purchase in store. Visit a CVS Pharmacy in-person and obtain in stock OTC tests and file a claim for reimbursement. Other pharmacies in the Aetna National Pharmacy network may also offer Point of Service solution. 3. Pay for your tests and get reimbursed. At-home COVID-19 test kits* may purchased with NO prescription after January 15, 2022 through April 16, 2022. If the pharmacy, online retailer, or store where you shop is unable to process your at-home test claim using your pharmacy benefits, you can still get reimbursed for the cost of the test. Keep a copy of your receipt and log in to the Aetna Student Health member website to submit a claim for reimbursement. Once your claim is processed, a check will be mailed to you. Please note shipping costs will not be reimbursed. For tests purchased between January 15, 2022, and February 16, 2022, you can expect to be fully reimbursed for the cost of an at-home COVID-19 test. One single test – up to a maximum of $12.00 Dual Pack (2 tests in one kit) – up to a maximum of $24.00 Eight (8) Over the Counter (OTC) COVID-19 individual tests per member every 30 days Submit a claim. Where else can I find at-home COVID-19 tests? You can also order four free at-home COVID-19 tests from COVIDtests.gov. There’s no cost for shipping. Plus, you don’t need to enter a credit card. At-home COVID-19 tests used for return to work or school, or recreational purposes are not covered unless required by state law. Lab-based PCR at-home collection kits are also not covered. For a complete list of participating providers and pharmacies, go to Aetna.com and use the provider search tool. *Exclusion: Lab-based home collection PCR testing is not covered. Editor's note: Updated on 2/22/2022 with new information from Aetna Student Health. By Aetna Student Health February 17, 2022 News May 23, 2022 Commencement Honors for Columbia Health SVP, Dr. Melanie Bernitz April 25, 2022 Columbia Health Releases its 2020-21 Annual Report April 25, 2022 Dr. Michael McNeil, Chief of Administration for Columbia Health, included in Inside HigherEd article March 21, 2022 Our opposition to ongoing efforts to harm the lives and well-being of trans and queer people March 16, 2022 Making decisions about your well-being amid changing COVID-19 public health guidance Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close