Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Public Health and Human Sciences » Academics Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About the College Academics Research Community Engagement Center for Health Innovation Contact About the College Academics Research Community Engagement Center for Health Innovation Contact CPHHS Pre-Med: Preparing for medical school CPHHS Pre-Med Preparing for medical school We offer academic majors that provide unique paths to medical school. Students can apply to medical school with any major as long as they also complete required coursework in the sciences and mathematics. Related majors, which incorporate some of the requirements for medical school, include Kinesiology (PTAH option) and Nutrition (Nutrition Health Science option). Public Health and Human Development and Family Sciences majors are well suited to take the additional sciences needed for competency and approach med school from a very different background. If you wish to identify yourself as a PHHS student interested in pursuing medicine, please complete the CPHHS Pre-med Initial Interest Form (pdf) and send to Carey.Hilbert@oregonstate.edu or drop off at Women's Building 105. Same science, more people Public health degrees give students an edge when pursuing medical school Biology isn’t the only major for future doctors. CPHHS alumni share how their degrees in public health helped them stand out when applying to medical school. Read their stories In addition to coursework, several other components are important to the medical school application. Students interested in attending medical school should meet with the CPHHS pre-med advisor toward the end of their first year (or as soon as possible) to learn about and prepare for the application process. Please read: Planning for Medical School (pdf) Typical course sequencing for Pre-Med/MCAT (pdf) By working with the pre-med advisor, students will also establish a mentoring relationship, a critical part of the process. Advising appointments can be made by calling the College of Public Health and Human Sciences Office of Student Success at 541-737-8900. The CPHHS Pre-Med Advisor is Carey.Hilbert@oregonstate.edu Opening your med school application file In the year you are applying to med school, or prior to having letters sent to the CPHHS Pre-Med Advisor, you need to fill out the CPHHS Pre-medical Student Information Sheet (pdf) to officially begin the process of opening your pre-med file. Along with this form, you should provide the pre-med advisor with: The most recent draft of your personal statement. Your list of 15 significant activities or events. A current resume. Letter of evaluation Requesting a letter of evaluation from faculty or off-campus individual for medical school? Follow the instructions on the Pre-medical Letter of Evaluation Guidelines and Procedure for Submission form (pdf). More pre-med students attracted to public health degrees Yes, you need science, but the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) added new emphasis in psychology, psycho-social dimensions of health and medical ethics. Our students get a more proactive mindset that is representative of a new trend in medicine in which physicians focus on prevention and caring for the health of individuals instead of only caring for the sick. Read more Additional pre-med resources Pre-med Listserv: Subscribe to the pre-med email list for information about upcoming events, application workshops, campus visits, etc. Minority Association of Pre-Med Students: (MAPS) is a club that strives to increase the representation and matriculation of underrepresented minority students into medical school by fostering a collaborative environment among pre-medical students and offering professional/educational opportunities for our members. Pre-Med Society: Join the Oregon State University chapter of the AMSA Pre-Medical Society or join on Facebook (Oregon State University pre-med Society). Premedical Orientation Class - BI 109: Take this class in Spring term. General information is provided about the application process, the MCAT, admissions, volunteer opportunities, etc., and various speakers are included. College of Science Pre-medical Information (PHHS students: Do NOT use the Letter of Evaluation form from College of Science.) Pre-health professions Allied Health professionals deliver services involving the identification, evaluation and prevention of diseases and disorders; dietary and nutrition services; and rehabilitation and health systems management. The most common allied health careers our students are interested in are: Athletic Training, Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy, Nursing and Physician Assistant. There are almost 100 different careers for you to pursue. More info Non-CPHHS students should visit the College of Science Pre-medicine FAQ to locate their pre-med advisor. If your College does not have a dedicated pre-med advisor, you are welcome to seek out one of those listed on the College of Science website. ‹ How to apply to PhD in Public Health program up Accelerated Master's Platform › Contact Info College of Public Health and Human Sciences 160 SW 26th St, Corvallis OR 97331 Land Acknowledgement ©2022 Oregon State University Contact 541.737.3220 Website Issue? Privacy Disclaimer and Accessibility Information Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram