Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown About COVID-19 Breadcrumb Home Prevention Sub Navigation In This Section About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs About COVID-19 The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Rhode Island Department of Health and other agencies have provided information and guidance to prevent community spread of COVID-19. What are coronaviruses? Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that cause cold and flu-like symptoms in mammals, including humans. On rare occasions, certain strains of coronavirus can cause more severe symptoms such as pneumonia. What is the novel (new) coronavirus COVID-19? According to the CDC, COVID-19 is a new strain of coronavirus first identified in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019. This specific strain has potential to cause more severe symptoms than its close relatives. To date, the majority of individuals that have suffered from severe complications of this new virus have been elderly or suffering from predisposing underlying chronic illness. What is a COVID-19 variant? All viruses change and mutate over time. The SARS CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19 is no different. Over time, the virus has undergone one or more genetic mutations, resulting in different variants each with slightly different characteristics such as transmissibility. The recent Delta variant is more infectious than early forms of SARS-CoV-2, with those unvaccinated at greatest risk. More information on the Delta variant is available from the CDC. What are the symptoms of coronavirus? According to the CDC, symptoms related to COVID-19 include fever greater than 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit / 38 degrees Celsius along with difficulty breathing or shortness of breath. Additional symptoms of illness related to COVID-19 may be chills, repeated shaking with chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat, or new loss of taste or smell. Are antibiotics effective in preventing and treating coronavirus? No, antibiotics do not work against viruses, only bacteria. The new COVID-19 is a virus, and therefore, antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment. Is vaccination effective in preventing and treating coronavirus? Yes, there are three COVID-19 vaccines — one made by Pfizer-BioNTech, one by Moderna, and one by Janssen, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson — have been authorized for emergency use in the U.S. by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines require two doses and have been shown to be 95% effective in preventing symptomatic laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 and in preventing severe disease. The Johnson & Johnson vaccine is a single-dose vaccine that has been shown to be 85% effective in preventing severe or critical COVID-19 disease 28 days after vaccination. In clinical trials, it was 100% effective at preventing death. The vaccines are authorized for individuals age 12 and older (Pfizer) and age 18 and older (Moderna and Johnson & Johnson). None of the vaccines carries live coronavirus. You cannot get COVID-19 from the vaccine. Government and Agency Resources on COVID-19 Summary on COVID-19 from the CDC Summary on COVID-19 from the World Health Organization Summary on COVID-19 from R.I. Department of Health Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About COVID-19 Open details for About COVID-19 Bookmark this Page