Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Verify Your Vaccination Breadcrumb Home Vaccinations Sub Navigation In This Section Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Verify Your Vaccination Students and employees are required to verify your vaccination against COVID-19, including a follow-up booster, to ensure community health and help the Brown community sustain normal operations to the extent possible. Brown is requiring all students and employees who have received a full COVID-19 vaccination series to provide documentation that they have received the vaccine. They also have to verify that they have received a COVID-19 booster shot no later than January 26, 2022 (the first day of classes of the spring semester), or within thirty (30) days of becoming eligible. You are eligible for a booster six months after your Pfizer or Moderna series or two months after your Johnson & Johnson vaccine. On this page, we provide step-by-step instructions for both employees and students that allow you to upload your vaccination card and provide confidential verification of your vaccination and booster in minutes. Understanding the rates of vaccination and boosters among students and employees helps ensure the health and well-being of the Brown community while also creating safe conditions to proceed as much as possible with normal operations. Providing Documentation of a COVID-19 Vaccination and Booster Employees All employees who have had the opportunity to receive an approved vaccination and FDA-approved booster against COVID-19 should provide verification of receipt by uploading the completed vaccination card with your booster record received from your vaccination provider. Please submit your updated vaccine record with your booster directly through Workday: Booster Management in Workday: https://brown.edu/go/employeeboosters Vaccine Management in Workday: http://brown.edu/go/vaccine-manage Important: If you loaded your booster record prior to December 20, 2021, please reload per the instructions above. For more information regarding uploading your vaccination card to Workday, please visit this online guide. If you cannot upload your card in Workday, please share a copy of your completed vaccination card with your booster via email as a pdf or jpeg to employeetestinguhr@brown.edu. If submitting via email, please use Virtru to email it securely. All vaccination records will be stored confidentially in Workday and can be loaded via the Vaccine Management link in the Benefits app on your Workday landing page. https://www.youtube.com/embed/QBnrR0CKln0 Students Once you receive a vaccination shot at any stage — whether your initial shot, the second dose of a two-dose vaccination series (i.e., Pfizer or Moderna), or your booster — please upload a copy of your documentation to the it to the Health and Wellness Patient Portal as detailed here: Log in to the Health and Wellness Patient Portal using your Brown username and password. Select “Immunizations” at the top of the page and select “Enter Dates.” Scroll down to the “Other” section and choose the appropriate COVID-19 vaccine. Select the calendar icon to select the date(s) on which you were vaccinated and then select “Submit.” Select “Upload” from the dropdown menu and select “Immunization Records Other.” Choose “Select File,” upload your vaccine card photo, and select “Upload.” All vaccination records will be stored confidentially. https://www.youtube.com/embed/EHINKxAU4BQ Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Verify Your Vaccination Open details for Verify Your Vaccination Bookmark this Page