Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences College of Health Sciences Advising https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ About the College About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College of Health Sciences Online Access Request – Spring 2021 These are extraordinary times, but the University of Tulsa is committed to providing a safe learning environment for all students, faculty, and staff. Prior to the start of the semester, students may choose to enroll in online or in-person classes. After the first day of classes, students may request temporary online completion of in-person classes due to pending COVID tests, current illness or various hardships. This assistance will not generally be granted retroactively, so please complete this form as soon as possible. Please note, some coursework may not be able to be completed online. Complete a request for online course access Undergraduate All undergraduate students are matched with a professional academic advisor in the Center for Academic Advising and a faculty advisor within their program of study. Faculty advisors assist students with the transition to college, setting and achieving goals, and making responsible decisions consistent with their educational and career goals. Faculty advisors also guide students in the degree planning process and assist students in planning for graduate programs. You will meet with your faculty advisor at least once a semester, prior to enrollment. In addition to faculty advising, a professional advisor is available to assist students and faculty advisors with enrollment and degree planning. Advising is an integral part of your TU story and Oxley College of Health Sciences is committed to helping you achieve academic success. Graduate Graduate student advising is coordinated by the faculty in a student’s program of study. Faculty work closely with Graduate Program Advisors in the Graduate School to assist students each semester through the enrollment process as they work toward completion of their graduate degree. Transfer Credit Policies Transfer credit from other colleges and universities are subject to the policies of the University of Tulsa, College of Health Sciences, and the program of study. The Office of the Registrar coordinates the transfer credit evaluation and transfer credit approval processes. For questions about transfer credit, please review the Transfer Credit Policies and visit with your professional academic advisor in the Center for Academic Advising. For more information regarding: Athletic Training, please contact Rachel Hildebrand Exercise & Sports Science, please contact Eric Wickel Nursing, please contact Helen Hansen Communication Sciences & Disorders, please contact Julie Hyland General questions, please contact the Center for Academic Advising Frequently Asked Questions Can I take classes at another institution that will transfer here? There are some important restrictions that apply to transfer credit. University policy states that the last 45 credit hours toward graduation must be taken in residence at The University of Tulsa. There are other University and College policies to consider when taking course work at other institutions, so students must obtain approval prior to enrolling in courses at other institutions. To request permission, complete the Oxley College of Health Sciences Transfer Course Approval Form. The College of Health Sciences has identified transferable courses from Tulsa Community College. Click here to see what transfers from TCC. After completing the course, be sure to send an official copy of your transcript to The University of Tulsa. What is my class standing? Hours Earned Class Standing 0-29 hours Freshmen 30-59 hours Sophomore 60-89 hours Junior 90+ hours Senior Who do I contact if I have any questions about course selection and educational planning? You may contact your faculty advisor to coordinate your education experience and assist you in your planning, as well as refer you to other departments and services on campus as needed. What is the procedure for dropping a course? A course may be dropped during the first three weeks of a semester with no academic penalty. Academic penalty refers to the fact that there will be no entry on your transcript. To drop a course during this time period, you must complete a Drop/Add Form. What consequences should be considered before withdrawing from a course? Course withdrawals are treated as a serious matter that requires advisor/student interaction. Students must see their advisor when they need to withdraw from a course. Withdrawal from a course may delay a student’s progression in their program of study. In addition to the advisor’s signature, the instructor’s signature is required to withdraw after the first three weeks of the semester. No withdrawals are permitted after the 12th week of the semester. Within the period that withdrawals are permitted (4th through 12th week), there will be a transcript entry of W. A grade of W has no impact on the GPA. If withdrawing from a course reduces the total hours for the semester to less than 12, there are also financial aid implications and, in the case of international students, visa status implications. Students should check with those offices for additional information. How do I obtain a minor course of study? Minors are determined by the department, and requirements are listed in the University bulletin. Your advisor can assist you with meeting these requirements or may refer you to the department for additional advising. In order for the minor to appear on your transcript, you must declare the minor and complete a Declaration of Major, Minor, or Certificate. Resources Center for Academic Advising Academic Support Resources Schedule of Courses Academic Calendar Enrollment Dates Forms For common advising and enrollment forms, please visit the Center for Academic Advising. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT