Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Nutrition Nutrition Following a balanced pattern of eating has a number of potential benefits that include a boost in energy, better sleep quality, and maintenance of a healthy weight. Further, three of the leading causes of death in the United States — coronary heart disease, some types of cancer, and stroke — are linked to diet. Poor eating habits may greatly increase the risk of chronic disease. Decisions about what to eat to fuel your body may influence emotions, mood, energy levels, and cognitive performance. Making changes and balanced choices now could have a lasting effect on long-term health. Recommendations The most recent dietary guidelines published by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) focus on making lifelong, balanced food and beverage choices and staying physically active. Having a diet that includes a variety of nutrients and getting recommended amounts of physical activity may help reduce the risk of chronic disease for individuals of all ages: Choose a variety of nutrient-rich foods from different food groups. This may include whole fruit, colorful vegetables, whole grains, fat-free or low-fat dairy, fortified soy beverages, a variety of protein foods, and oils. Keep calories consumed from added sugars and saturated fats to ten percent of calories each per day. Reduce the amount of sodium in your diet to less than 2,300 milligrams per day. Resources Students can meet with a nutritionist at Medical Services to discuss ways to inform balanced choices about food, Students also may consider meeting with a counselor in CPS for any concerns related to eating and body image. They can also meet with a member of the Alice! Health Promotion staff to discuss healthy food-body relationships more broadly Looking for Nutrition guides? There will be more information to come in the future, so check back soon. In the meantime, you may find these resources helpful: Go Ask Alice! Nutrition & Physical Activity Q&A archives 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans ChooseMyPlate.gov Columbia Dining is also a great source of information on healthy eating. Students on the Morningside campus who have specific nutrition concerns can make an appointment with a dietician at Medical Services online or by calling 212-854-7426. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close