Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Tobacco Cessation Tobacco Cessation Columbia students can meet with a tobacco cessation specialist, who will provide individual support and help students understand the process of quitting along with developing a personal plan to stop using tobacco. Ready to quit tobacco and other nicotine products (including vaping)? Follow these step-by-step instructions for scheduling your initial evaluation appointment (virtual only). The program offers behavioral and pharmacological support, including meeting with a cessation specialist, prescriptions for medications, and access to no-cost over-the-counter nicotine replacement products. The Columbia Student Medical Insurance Plan also provides coverage, including prescriptions, to assist students with quitting. Ending the use of tobacco can be a challenge, and Columbia Health is committed to providing support to students with this goal. Research shows that the earlier in life a person quits, the less difficult the process and the lesser an impact that tobacco use will have on their health. To learn more about stopping the use of tobacco for yourself or someone you know, make an appointment online at secure.health.columbia.edu. Frequently Asked Questions Expand all Collapse all How many times can I attend a tobacco cessation session at Columbia Health? Is there a limit? There is no set limit to the number of tobacco cessation sessions available to you at Columbia Health. Many cessation clients meet with the counselor regularly (every week or every other week) during the first month or two of their quit. What should I expect at my session? At an initial tobacco cessation session, your counselor will talk with you about your goals and the history of your tobacco use, as well as previous efforts at quitting. You will come up with a flexible plan that will include support from the counselor as well as nicotine replacements or other medical support. Related Resources Columbia policy on tobacco use on-campus Strategies to quit smoking (National Institutes of Health) Create a quit-smoking plan (Mayo Clinic) Make an Appointment Medical Services Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Alice! Health Promotion Clinical Specialty Physical Health and Wellbeing Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close