Skip to content Florida State University FSU | College of Health and Human Sciences Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation CHHS Home The College About CHHS History Dean & Staff Academic Advising Information Technology Dean’s Advisory Council Graduate Events and Opportunities Graduate Orientation Research Showcase Open House Scholarships Endowed Chair & Professorships Health Professions Learning Community Human Development & Family Science Department Home HDFS Students Current HDFS PhD Students HDFS Faculty & Staff HDFS Centers & Institutes HDFS Seminar Series HDFS News Nutrition & Integrative Physiology Department Home NIP Students Current NIP PhD Students NIP Faculty & Staff NIP Centers & Institutes NIP Seminar Series NIP News NIP Research News Contact Giving Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu College of Health and Human Sciences Human Development & Family Science Nutrition & Integrative Physiology HDFS Students HDFS Graduate Programs HDFS Undergraduate Programs Get to know our PhD students HDFS Careers HDFS Faculty & Staff HDFS Centers & Institutes HDFS Seminar Series HDFS News “My interests focus on the study of social injustices that threaten families and create poor health outcomes.” Joe Grzywacz, Ph.D. “My research includes adolescent and young adult development, parenting and interpersonal relationships.” Ming Cui, Ph.D. “My research focuses on marriage and partnerships, and the impact of conflict on children.” Frank Fincham, Ph.D. “My research focuses on the psychosocial well-being of Latino youth and families.” Melinda Gonzales-Backen, Ph.D. “My primary clinical interests are crises within families and the resiliency that follows.” Kristen Greene, Ph.D. “My research has included the broad aspects of family health, wellness, and disease prevention from a social behavioral/public health model.” Gregory Harris, Ph.D. “I study the links between mindfulness and adult attachment, and how they alter perceptions in couple and family relationships.” Jonathan Kimmes, Ph.D. “I am interested in data analysis methods on small groups and interpersonal relationships.” Thomas Ledermann, Ph.D. “I research the mental health needs of children and families deemed at-risk, and relational interventions aimed to improve the well-being of individuals and families.” Lenore McWey, Ph.D. “My most scholarly work has focused on program development, including the development of community-based programs and higher education programs.” Penny Ralston, Ph.D. “I am currently involved in the qualitative analysis of narratives concerning the roles of spirituality and parental overindulgence in the lives of adolescents.” Marsha Rehm, Ph.D. “I study the intergenerational processes within the family and how those processes affect family members' mental health.” Joanna Wu, Ph.D. Inspiring Curiosity HDFS Preview Human Development & Family Science Human Development and Family Science is more than working with people – we strive to make a difference in their lives. We offer programs of study for both undergraduate and graduate students that address the needs of children, youth, adults, and families across the lifespan, with special attention to those in complicated families. 2022 Research Showcase Winners On February 25, students from the departments of Nutrition & Integrative Physiology and Human Development & … Read more... Marriage & Family Therapy Doctoral Candidate Chélynn Randolph Wins McKnight Dissertation Fellowship Chélynn Randolph recently was named a McKnight Dissertation Fellow. She joins a prestigious group of scholars around … Read more... Dr. Michele Parker Awarded Grant from U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Dr. Michele Parker, assistant professor in the Department of Human Development & Family Science, serves as a … Read more... More News R1 RESEARCH UNIVERSITY FSU is one of only 115 institutions classified as an “R1 Research University… (Highest research activity)” in the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. COLLABORATION An interdisciplinary research environment enables shared learning between disciplines, faculty and cohorts. This entrepreneurial spirit within a single department inspires curiosity and optimizes performance. FACULTY INTERESTS An esteemed roster of faculty enables students an opportunity to study topics with professional researchers who share their interest. Optimizing child and family well-being Your Future Awaits Human Development & Family Science Students Faculty and Staff Centers and Institutes Seminar Series News × Questions or comments? Contact the Help Desk for info regarding the College or assistance with this website. Get in Touch © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media