Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown COVID-19 Vaccine Frequently Asked Questions Breadcrumb Home Vaccinations Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs COVID-19 Vaccine Frequently Asked Questions To support our community, Brown is providing regular updates to questions about the COVID-19 vaccines and vaccination requirements. The University has announced that Brown will require the COVID-19 vaccine and a COVID-19 booster for all members of the campus community. The following is a list of frequently asked questions for faculty, staff and students, which continues to be updated as additional information becomes available. COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement for Employees Back to Top When does Brown’s COVID-19 vaccination requirement take effect? Starting July 1, 2021, and for the entirety of Fiscal Year 2022 (July 1, 2021, to June 30, 2022), Brown will require COVID-19 vaccines for all employees (faculty, staff, postdoctoral scholars, visiting researchers, lecturers, and seasonal and intermittent staff, full- and part-time) working at any Brown owned, leased or managed premises and/or engaging in any in-person work with other Brown employees, students or visitors. Is a COVID-19 booster required? COVID-19 booster shots are essential for individual and community health. Accordingly, all employees (faculty, staff, postdoctoral scholars, visiting researchers, lecturers, and seasonal and intermittent staff) must receive a COVID-19 booster shot no later than January 26, 2022 (the first day of classes of the spring semester), or within 30 days of becoming eligible. You are eligible for a booster five months after your initial Pfizer series, six months after your initial Moderna series or two months after your initial J&J vaccine. Pursuant to CDC guidance, those who have been fully vaccinated outside of the U.S. with a WHO-EUL approved vaccine are eligible for a single booster shot of Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at least six months after full vaccination. If you have already received an approved exemption from a COVID-19 vaccination, you will continue to be exempt from this requirement. If you have not previously received an exemption and wish to request one, information regarding how to do so is available on the COVID-19 Vaccine Frequently Asked Questions page. For employees, once you receive your booster or if you already have, please submit your updated vaccine record with your booster directly through Workday. Directions on how to do so are available on the Verify Your Vaccination web page. Why is the University requiring employees to get vaccinated? What if I refuse? COVID-19 vaccines have been demonstrated to be safe and effective in developing an immune response to the SARS-Cov-2 virus. Overwhelming evidence suggests that vaccinated people are far less likely to spread the virus to others. Developing immunity through vaccination means there is a reduced risk of developing the illness and its consequences. This immunity helps you fight the virus if exposed. Getting vaccinated may also protect people around you, because if you are protected from getting infected and from disease, you are less likely to infect someone else. This is particularly important to protect people at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19, including individuals who are immunocompromised and for whom the vaccine does not offer full protection. Given the medical and community benefit of COVID-19 vaccinations, Brown determined – based on the best available scientific and medical guidance – that requiring employees to be vaccinated against COVID-19 is the most effective way to ensure individual and community health. Requiring all members of the Brown community to be vaccinated additionally enables the University community to return more quickly to normal operations in support of its mission of teaching and research. Medical and religious exemptions to the vaccination requirement will be granted and reasonable accommodations provided under applicable law. Employees who are not vaccinated and do not qualify for a medical or religious exemption will have their status reviewed and acted on by the Office of the Provost (for faculty and postdoctoral scholars) and University Human Resources (for staff). In some cases, the requirements of a position do not allow for an unvaccinated person to safely perform their job duties with a reasonable accommodation. Therefore, if an employee is not vaccinated, does not qualify for a medical or religious exemption or the position does not allow for an unvaccinated person to safely perform their job duties and no opportunities for a transfer to another open position exist, the following options are available: be placed on leave without pay; apply for leave under FMLA (the Family and Medical Leave Act), or may take paid time off. The refusal to get vaccinated for an employee who is not eligible for a medical or religious exemption will not be a valid basis for approval to work remotely as an Alternative Work Assignment (AWA). NOTE: Working remotely may constitute a reasonable accommodation under a medical or religious exemption. To whom does this employee requirement apply? All regular employees – faculty, staff, postdoctoral scholars, visiting researchers, lecturers, seasonal and intermittent staff, full- and part-time – are required to receive their final dose no later than July 1, 2021, or by their first day of work in the case of employees hired during the course of Fiscal Year 2022, unless they are approved for a medical or religious exemption. How do employees comply with the requirement to be fully vaccinated? COVID-19 vaccines are readily available to anyone who lives, works or studies in Rhode Island. In order to comply with the vaccination requirement by July 1, 2021, current employees should receive their first dose (of a two-dose vaccine, Moderna or Pfizer) no later than May 31, 2021, and their second dose the prescribed number of days later. Individuals who receive a single-dose vaccine (J&J) should do so no later than July 1, 2021. Once you have received your final vaccine dose, you are required to upload your completed vaccination card directly to Workday (click on this link for detailed instructions) or email a pdf or jpeg to Worklife@brown.edu. If submitting via email, please use Virtru to email it securely. All vaccination records will be stored confidentially in Workday and can be loaded via the Vaccine Management link in the Benefits app on your Workday landing page. Eligible employees who have submitted proof of COVID-19 vaccination in Workday can earn $50 toward 2021 Wellness Rewards. Wellness Rewards is the voluntary wellness incentive program designed to help faculty and staff maintain and improve their overall well-being. Additionally, for those needing sick time to support their vaccine recovery, Brown will credit up to two sick days as needed (up to 1 per each vaccination day). Credit for time off will be updated once per month upon updating your vaccine status in Workday. What changes in permissible activities will I experience after I have been fully vaccinated? Once you have fully received any COVID-19 vaccine (14 days after your final dose), if you have been exposed to COVID-19 or travel to Rhode Island from out-of-state, you do not need to quarantine if you meet all of the following criteria: you received, at least 14 days before your last exposure or out-of-state travel, a final vaccine dose that is either FDA-approved or received an Emergency Use Authorization, or for which the World Health Organization has issued an Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL); it has been less than 90 days since your final vaccine dose; and you haven’t had symptoms of COVID-19 since your last exposure or out-of-state travel. Later this summer, if public health conditions continue to improve, employees who have been fully vaccinated (14 days after their final dose) and uploaded their vaccination card to Workday will start to be removed from the University’s COVID-19 routine testing program. Students who are fully vaccinated will continue to be subject to mandatory testing through the summer term given their congregate living situations, but if public health conditions continue to improve, there will be no medical or public health need for fully vaccinated employees to continue to be subject to routine asymptomatic testing. How do employees request an exemption? Employees who wish to request an exemption on religious or medical grounds will be directed to the appropriate request form in Workday or provided with instructions to contact a University Human Resources (UHR) representative. Requests for medical exemptions will be reviewed by a panel of physicians. Requests for religious exemptions will be reviewed by UHR in consultation, as necessary, with the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity. All decisions regarding requests for exemptions shall be final. All information regarding requests for and granting of exemptions, including the grounds for an exemption, will be kept confidential by UHR. Supervisors may not ask employees for information regarding individual vaccination and/or exemption status and should refer any concerns, questions or requests for clarification regarding exemptions and accommodations, if any, to the appropriate UHR partner for their area of responsibility. Supervisors will receive information and training from UHR regarding how to protect confidentiality and support employees who receive an exemption (religious or medical) and may need, for example, to wear a mask at all times and take other mitigation measures. What COVID-19 vaccinations will the University accept? Three COVID-19 vaccinations have been granted Emergency Use Authorization by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA): Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson. Documentation of any of the three will be acceptable for employees to fully satisfy the COVID-19 vaccination requirement. In addition, for those who may be receiving vaccinations outside of the U.S., the University will accept documentation of COVID-19 vaccines for which the World Health Organization has issued an Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL). Pursuant to guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), individuals who have received a WHO EUL vaccine do not need to receive additional doses with an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine. Individuals who are partially vaccinated with a COVID-19 vaccine series of doses authorized for emergency use by WHO may be offered an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine series of one or two doses (after at least 28 days have passed since their last vaccine dose). Individuals who completed or partially completed a COVID-19 vaccine series with a vaccine that is not authorized by FDA or not authorized for emergency use by WHO may be offered an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine (at least 28 days after their last dose). Can I request to work remotely if I do not want to get vaccinated? All requests for hybrid/remote work go through the University’s established Alternative Work Assignment (AWA) process. Absence of or refusal to get a vaccination is not a valid criterion in and of itself to be considered for an AWA. Any employee — staff or faculty —will need to either go through the formal exemption process or provide a vaccination record. What are the vaccination requirements for an employee who is hired during the year? The requirement to be vaccinated against COVID-19 will be in effect through the entirety, at least, of Fiscal Year 2022 — July 1, 2021, through at least June 30, 2022. Employees who begin work during the course of the year will be subject to the requirement beginning on their first day of work. Job postings will include information on the employee vaccination requirement/exemption process and whether the position is eligible for hybrid/remote work. If the newly hired employee is in the process of getting vaccinated, they will need to follow relevant health protocols until fully vaccinated. I have participated in a vaccine trial for a vaccine not on Brown's approved list. Can I submit this for my record? For those employees who have participated in a vaccine trial please follow the process for a medical exemption. Your physician will need to submit the medical certification and check the box for "Other". Please have your health care provider include the name of the trial vaccine, the trial site and lead investigator, and confirmation that you have been completely vaccinated. COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement for Students Back to Top When does Brown’s COVID-19 vaccination requirement for students take effect? Starting no later than the Fall 2021 semester, Brown will require COVID-19 vaccines for all students who will be on campus or engage in any level of in-person instruction, whether in the U.S. or abroad.In addition, we are also requiring all Brown students who are engaged in on-campus activities (education, jobs, research, or engaging in any in-person education or work with other Brown employees, students, or visitors) this summer to receive the final dose of their COVID-19 vaccine by July 1, 2021. Given the widespread availability of COVID-19 vaccines in Rhode Island, this is an acceleration of the timeline communicated in April that called for all students to be vaccinated by the fall semester. The earlier July 1 deadline is now achievable for students who are engaged in on-campus activities this summer. Medical and religious exemptions will be granted, and reasonable accommodations provided under applicable law. Is a COVID-19 booster required? COVID-19 booster shots are essential for individual and community health. Accordingly, all students must receive a COVID-19 booster shot no later than January 26, 2022 (the first day of classes of the spring semester), or within 30 days of becoming eligible. You are eligible for a booster five months after your initial Pfizer series, six months after your initial Moderna series, or two months after your initial J&J vaccine. Pursuant to CDC guidance, those who have been fully vaccinated outside of the U.S. with a WHO-EUL approved vaccine are eligible for a single booster shot of Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at least six months after full vaccination. If you have already received an approved exemption from a COVID-19 vaccination, you will continue to be exempt from this requirement. If you have not previously received an exemption and wish to request one, information regarding how to do so is available on the COVID-19 Vaccine Frequently Asked Questions page. For students, once you receive your booster or if you already have, please upload a copy of your documentation to the Health and Wellness Patient Portal. Directions on how to do so are available on the Verify Your Vaccination web page. Why is the University requiring students to get vaccinated? What if I refuse? COVID-19 vaccines have been demonstrated to be safe and effective in developing an immune response to the SARS-Cov-2 virus. Overwhelming evidence suggests that vaccinated people are far less likely to spread the virus to others. Developing immunity through vaccination means there is a reduced risk of developing the illness and its consequences. This immunity helps you fight the virus if exposed. Getting vaccinated may also protect people around you, because if you are protected from getting infected and from disease, you are less likely to infect someone else. This is particularly important to protect people at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19, including individuals who are immunocompromised and for whom the vaccine does not offer full protection. Given the medical and community benefit of COVID-19 vaccinations, Brown determined – based on the best available scientific and medical guidance – that requiring students to be vaccinated against COVID-19 is the most effective way to ensure individual and community health. Requiring all members of the Brown community to be vaccinated additionally enables the University community to return more quickly to normal operations in support of its mission of teaching and research. Medical and religious exemptions to the vaccination requirement will be granted and reasonable accommodations provided under applicable law. Students who are not vaccinated and do not qualify for a medical or religious exemption will be required to study remotely without permission to access campus. How do students request an exemption to Brown's COVID-19 booster requirement? Students who have already received an approved medical or religious exemption from a COVID-19 vaccination will continue to be exempt from this COVID-19 booster requirement. Students who have not previously received an exemption and wish to request one should contact University Health Services at vaccineexemptions@health.brown.edu to request an exemption form, and complete and submit that exemption form for review. Requests for medical exemptions will be reviewed by University Health Services clinicians, and decisions will be based on science and on U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Rhode Island Department of Health guidelines. For any request denials, the student will be notified as to why it was declined with scientific citation / CDC guidance supporting the decision. There will be no appeals. Requests for religious exemptions will be reviewed by University Health Services as well. All questions about exemptions for students should be directed to University Health Services at vaccineexemptions@health.brown.edu. How do students comply with the requirement to be fully vaccinated? COVID-19 vaccines are readily available to anyone who lives, works or studies in Rhode Island. In order to comply with the vaccination requirement by July 1, 2021, students who are engaged in on-campus activities (education, jobs or research) this summer should receive their first dose (of a two-dose vaccine, Moderna or Pfizer) no later than May 31, 2021, and their second dose the prescribed number of days later. Individuals who receive a single-dose vaccine (J&J) should do so no later than July 1, 2021. Students can upload their vaccination cards directly to the Health & Wellness Patient Portal at: https://patientportal.brown.edu/. We recommend you access the patient portal via desktop as it will allow for an easier upload than mobile. Detailed instructions are available through the Verify Your Vaccination page on this Healthy Brown website. What changes will I experience in permissible activities after I have been fully vaccinated? Once you have fully received any COVID-19 vaccine (14 days after your final dose), if you have been exposed to COVID-19 or travel to Rhode Island from out of state, you do not need to quarantine if you meet all of the following criteria: you received, at least 14 days before your last exposure or out-of-state travel, a final vaccine dose that is either FDA-approved or received an Emergency Use Authorization, or for which the World Health Organization has issued an Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL); it has been less than 90 days since your final vaccine dose; and you haven’t had symptoms of COVID-19 since your last exposure or out-of-state travel. What COVID-19 vaccinations will the University accept? Three COVID-19 vaccinations have been granted Emergency Use Authorization by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA): Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson. Documentation of any of the three will be acceptable for students to fully satisfy the COVID-19 vaccination requirement. In addition, for those who may be receiving vaccinations outside of the U.S., the University will accept documentation of COVID-19 vaccines for which the World Health Organization has issued an Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL). Pursuant to guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, individuals who have received a WHO EUL vaccine do not need to receive additional doses with an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine. Individuals who are partially vaccinated with a COVID-19 vaccine series of doses authorized for emergency use by WHO may be offered an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine series of one or two doses (after at least 28 days have passed since their last vaccine dose). Individuals who completed or partially completed a COVID-19 vaccine series with a vaccine that is not authorized by FDA or not authorized for emergency use by WHO may be offered an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine series (at least 28 days after their last dose). For International Students: Vaccination Guidelines and Rules for Vaccine Interchangeability Back to Top Who do these guidelines apply to? The guidelines for receiving vaccinations apply to all students who will be on Brown campus or participating in any Brown-administered program, regardless of location. Do I need to plan my return to campus around vaccination plans? Students do not need to arrange their travel to campus around vaccination or revaccination plans, but all unvaccinated students must arrive in Providence on or before September 1, 2021 to observe a modified quarantine. What if I am unable to be vaccinated in my country? Those unable to be vaccinated in their current country will be able to get vaccinated when they arrive in Rhode Island. All unvaccinated students must arrive in Providence on or before September 1, 2021 to observe a modified quarantine. The University is requiring unvaccinated students who are arriving in Providence to adhere to the following public health measures: Enter a seven-day modified quarantine period when they arrive; Get tested on the first and fifth days of their modified quarantine period; and Wear a mask and practice social distancing as directed by the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy. For the seven-day modified quarantine period, students will not be permitted to leave their residential building for any reason (including classes) except to get a COVID-19 test, receive clinical care from University Health Services by appointment, pick up a meal from a dining hall, or pick up mail or packages. In order to fully participate in classes beginning on Wednesday, September 8, unvaccinated students will need to arrive, begin their modified quarantine period, and receive their first COVID-19 test by Wednesday, September 1, and will need to receive their second test by Monday, September 6. Students who receive a positive result from any COVID-19 test will be required to isolate for ten days as directed by University Health Services and may miss the first week of classes or some portion of it, depending on the date of their positive result. Unvaccinated students will be permitted to exit their modified quarantine period after they have received negative results from both their day 1 and day 5 tests. I am fully vaccinated with an EUA/FDA-authorized vaccine. Am I set to return to campus? Those fully vaccinated with WHO-Emergency Use Listing (EUL) vaccines are not required to get EUA/FDA-authorized vaccines here in the U.S., but are eligible for revaccination. The revaccination must be scheduled at least 28 days after the last WHO-EUL dose. Students vaccinated with WHO-EUL vaccines will be considered fully vaccinated by CDC standards and in compliance with the University's vaccination requirement. I started the WHO-EUL vaccination series but have not finished. What should I do? Those who started the series with WHO-EUL vaccines but have not finished should get revaccinated in Rhode Island 28 days after their last WHO-EUL dose. I received a non-WHO or non-EUA/FDA-authorized vaccine. Am I considered vaccinated? No, those who started or completed the series with a non-WHO or non-EUA/FDA-authorized vaccine will be offered revaccination with EUA/FDA authorized vaccine after 28 days. What health measures do I have to follow if I’m unvaccinated? All unvaccinated students must arrive in Providence on or before September 1, 2021 to observe a modified quarantine. The University is requiring unvaccinated students who are arriving in Providence to adhere to the following public health measures: Enter a seven-day modified quarantine period when they arrive; Get tested on the first and fifth days of their modified quarantine period; and Wear a mask and practice social distancing as directed by the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy. For the seven-day modified quarantine period, students will not be permitted to leave their residential building for any reason (including classes) except to get a COVID-19 test, receive clinical care from University Health Services by appointment, pick up a meal from a dining hall, or pick up mail or packages. These public health measures are critically important to the continued health and safety of the Brown community. Students who receive a positive result from any COVID-19 test will be required to isolate for ten days as directed by University Health Services and may miss the first week of classes or some portion of it, depending on the date of their positive result. Unvaccinated students will be permitted to exit their modified quarantine period after they have received negative results from both their day 1 and day 5 tests. What health measures do I have to follow if I’m vaccinated? We are reinstituting the requirement that all individuals – regardless of vaccination status – must wear masks indoors, unless in a private, non-shared space (e.g., office or dorm room) or when actively eating. In addition, social distancing of at least six feet must be maintained when unmasked. Where should I upload my vaccination information? Verify your receipt of vaccination by uploading your vaccination information to the Health & Wellness Patient Portal. How were these guidelines established? Brown has established requirements for accepting international vaccinations that closely follow CDC guidelines regarding those vaccinated with COVID-19 vaccines not authorized in the U.S. and interchangeability of vaccines. General Questions about COVID-19 Vaccines Back to Top What is the COVID-19 vaccine? Currently, three COVID-19 vaccines — one made by Pfizer-BioNTech, one by Moderna, and one by Janssen, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson — have been authorized for emergency use in the U.S. by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines require two doses and have been shown to be 95% effective in preventing symptomatic laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 and in preventing severe disease. The Johnson & Johnson vaccine is a single-dose vaccine that has been shown to be 85% effective in preventing severe or critical COVID-19 disease 28 days after vaccination. In clinical trials, it was 100% effective at preventing death. The vaccines are authorized for individuals age 12 and older (Pfizer) and age 18 and older (Moderna and Johnson & Johnson). None of the vaccines carries live coronavirus. You cannot get COVID-19 from the vaccine. Why are we required to get the vaccine if we are eligible to receive it? Will the vaccine prevent me from contracting the virus that leads to COVID-19 disease? The FDA-approved vaccines have been shown to be 85% to 95% effective in preventing symptomatic laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 and in preventing severe disease. Both the Pfizer and Moderna have been shown to be 95% effective in preventing symptomatic laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 and in preventing severe disease. The Johnson & Johnson vaccine has been shown to be 85% effective in preventing severe or critical COVID-19 disease 28 days after vaccination. The wider and faster the vaccine is distributed and utilized in the Providence and Rhode Island communities, the sooner more normal operations will return to the Brown University campus. Which vaccines are available to me? What’s the difference? The U.S. Food and Drug Administration authorized Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use on Dec. 11, 2020, Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use on Dec. 18, 2020, and Johnson & Johnson's COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use on Feb. 27, 2021. People can follow the progress of different vaccines at various vaccine tracker sites and applications, like the New York Times Coronavirus Tracker or BioPharma. Which vaccine is administered will depend largely on availability and distribution? Both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines require two doses. The Pfizer vaccine requires a second dose 21 days after the first dose and the Moderna vaccine requires a second dose 28 days after the first dose. For both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, the first dose is the same as the second dose in terms of amount and its composition. Although the vaccines are equally effective, they are not interchangeable. It is important to have both doses be administered from the same type of vaccine. The Johnson & Johnson vaccine is a viral vector vaccine made with a modification of the common cold virus. It has been shown to be 85% effective in preventing severe or critical COVID-19 disease 28 days after vaccination. In clinical trials, it was 100% effective at preventing death. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and RIDOH have resumed the administration of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine following a pause from April 13 to April 26, 2021, to examine a blood clotting concern in a small number of recipients. The CDC has shared that “as of April 13, 2021, of the more than 180 million doses administered so far of the Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna vaccines, no reports matching those associated with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine have been received.” All clotting incidents reported from the Johnson & Johnson vaccine occurred in women ages 18 to 48, and the symptoms occurred between six to 13 days after receiving the vaccination. Will these vaccines work against the new coronavirus variants? According to the CDC, there are multiple COVID-19 variants circulating around the world. Several new variants emerged in the fall of 2020 — most notably, separate variants of SARS-CoV-2 first identified in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil. Scientists don’t know yet whether the approved COVID-19 vaccines are effective against the variants. Researchers are working hard to understand how widely these variants have spread and how these variants will react to existing treatments and vaccines. It seems that these variants spread more easily and quickly. We do not know for sure that they cause more severe illness or increased risk of death. But an increase in the number of cases can strain health care resources. For this reason, we must continue to practice measures like wearing masks, washing our hands and watching our distance. The emergence of variants is yet another reason that everyone should be vaccinated as soon as they become eligible. If the virus cannot reproduce itself in infected people, it is less likely to mutate into new variants. Will the vaccine give me COVID-19? Will I get sick from the disease? No. Vaccines do not cause disease. However, vaccines can cause your immune system to respond. This is a sign that the vaccine — and your body’s immune system — is working. Based on information released about the Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines, recipients are expected to have symptoms after vaccination. People may feel some soreness at the site of injection, some aches and fatigue. These symptoms may be more noticeable than those that occur with a flu vaccine. This is completely normal and will clear up in a few days. How do I know the vaccine is safe? Safety is a top priority. COVID-19 vaccines have been tested in large clinical trials with thousands of people of different ages, races, ethnicities and underlying medical conditions to make sure they are safe. No steps involving safety have been skipped — COVID-19 vaccines are being held to the same standards as other vaccines to make sure they are safe. To ensure the safety of vaccines in the United States, there is a rigorous vaccine development and approval process. Following approval of a vaccine, there are several systems in place to continue to ensure safety. Do we know if there are any long-term adverse effects of the vaccine? After a vaccine is approved and distributed, vaccine monitoring systems are used to watch for possible side effects. If an unexpected side effect is seen, experts study it to determine whether changes are needed in vaccine recommendations. The Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) is a national vaccine safety surveillance program of the FDA and the CDC. VAERS collects and analyzes information from reports of adverse events (e.g., side effects) that occur after a vaccine has been approved and distributed. Anyone can submit a report to VAERS by going to this link: https://vaers.hhs.gov/reportevent.html. Why is there discussion about the approval process for this vaccine being different from other vaccines, such as the flu vaccine? The COVID-19 vaccines have been approved through a process called an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA). This is an authority that allows the FDA to make certain medical products (e.g., vaccines, treatments) available during public health emergencies. The FDA released guidance for vaccine manufacturers considering requests for an EUA. This guidance explains the criteria that need to be met before any vaccine for COVID-19 will receive an EUA. To meet criteria, the vaccine’s potential and known benefits must outweigh the potential and known risks. In addition, the vaccine must be at least 50% effective and must meet certain safety standards among a sufficiently large group of volunteers. Do I need to keep getting regular COVID-19 tests after I’m vaccinated? Testing is mandatory for all unvaccinated employees and students (those with approved exemptions and those who are in the process of getting vaccinated). For all other campus populations, testing requirements and frequency are detailed on the Testing and Tracing page. Brown’s Plans for Vaccinations Back to Top What are Brown's vaccination requirements? Brown requires that students, faculty and staff receive the COVID-19 vaccine and (once eligible) a booster, and that they stay informed about the vaccines by learning about their safety, effectiveness and availability. What is the vaccination rate on campus? Brown achieved universal compliance of its COVID-19 vaccination requirements in 2021. How does the availability of the vaccine affect Brown’s health protocols and requirements? While receiving the vaccine is an important public health measure, it does not yet replace the essentials of mask wearing, hand washing, social distancing, staying home when sick and frequent COVID-19 testing. We continue to monitor the continuing updates to guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) regarding mask wearing and other health and safety measures for individuals who are fully vaccinated for COVID-19. The University’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy remains in full effect, including mask wearing requirements on campus. What social distancing rules are in effect at Brown? The primary way that COVID-19 spreads, especially among unvaccinated individuals, is through close contact. When social distancing is required, six (6) feet of minimum distance should be maintained between individuals. The following social distancing standards should be followed by all individuals on the Brown campus: Unvaccinated individuals indoors: Wear a mask and maintain a 6-foot distance from others at all times (especially when actively eating and drinking which requires removal of the mask). Unvaccinated individuals outdoors: Maintain a 6-foot distance from others at all times; wear a mask if that is not possible. Vaccinated individuals indoors: Wear a mask; social distancing is not required (while actively eating and drinking it is a good idea to distance as much as possible). Vaccinated individuals outdoors: Mask and social distancing are not required. If I have been exposed to COVID-19 or I am traveling to Rhode Island from out of state, am I required to quarantine if I have been vaccinated? Consistent with guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Rhode Island Department of Health, once you have received any COVID-19 vaccine, you do not need to quarantine if you meet all of the following criteria: you received, at least 14 days before your last exposure or out-of-state travel, a final vaccine dose that is either FDA-approved or received an Emergency Use Authorization; it has been less than 90 days since your final vaccine dose; and you haven’t had symptoms of COVID-19 since your last exposure or out-of-state travel. Always watch for symptoms for a full 14 days. Vaccinated close contacts and travelers should still get a COVID-19 test between 5 and 10 days after their last exposure or out-of-state travel. More information from RIDOH about quarantine and isolation criteria can be found at: https://covid.ri.gov/covid-19-prevention/quarantine-and-isolation. Do I need to provide proof of vaccination to attend University events? At this point, all events and in-person socializing and activities are guided by the University’s current Campus Activity Status. For the small number of in-person events that are currently permitted, participants are not required to present proof of vaccination at the event itself — however, events must be held in compliance with Campus Activity Status requirements, and all students and employees are required to be vaccinated and to verify their vaccination through the processes detailed on the Verify Your Vaccination page. Vaccination Eligibility and Access Back to Top Who can get a vaccine right now? In Rhode Island, eligibility for the vaccine has been determined by the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH). Over time, the state has been releasing a timeline for vaccinations in Rhode Island, indicating when residents are eligible to receive the vaccine. Effective Monday, May 10, 2021, all individuals 12 years of age and older who live, work or study in Rhode Island are eligible to get the COVID-19 vaccine at no cost and with no requirement for insurance. Individual states establish the timelines for eligible populations, and Massachusetts residents can learn more about their state’s plans on the Massachusetts COVID-19 Vaccine Information website, while those living in Connecticut can visit the Connecticut COVID-19 Response website for vaccination information. How will I know when I’m able to get the vaccine? Effective Monday, May 10, 2021, all individuals 12 years of age and older who live, work or study in Rhode Island are eligible to get the COVID-19 vaccine at no cost and with no requirement for insurance. Massachusetts residents can learn more about their state’s plans on the Massachusetts COVID-19 Vaccine Information website, while those living in Connecticut can visit the Connecticut COVID-19 Response website for vaccination information. Can international students get vaccinated while in the U.S.? The federal government is providing the vaccine free of charge to all people living in the United States. International students are encouraged to get the vaccine if and when they become eligible per the phased prioritization systems managed by each state. What if I work at Brown, but live in another state? How does that affect my ability to get the vaccine? Effective Monday, May 10, 2021, all individuals 12 years of age and older who live, work or study in Rhode Island are eligible to get the COVID-19 vaccine at no cost and with no requirement for insurance. Massachusetts residents can learn more about their state’s plans on the Massachusetts COVID-19 Vaccine Information website, while those living in Connecticut can visit the Connecticut COVID-19 Response website for vaccination information. When you do receive the vaccine, you will receive a vaccination card. It is important to upload the card to verify your vaccination as part of the University’s requirements for vaccination, and hold on to the vaccination documentation you are provided for future reference. Vaccine Health and Safety Back to Top What should I expect after receiving the vaccine? What do I do if I experience side effects? COVID-19 vaccines do not cause COVID-19 infection. However, they are expected to cause your immune system to respond. This is a sign that the vaccine — and your body’s immune system — is working and will fight the virus if you are exposed to it. Based on information released about the Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines, we expect people to have some symptoms after vaccination. People may feel some soreness at the injection site, body aches, and/or fatigue. These symptoms may be more noticeable than those that occur with a flu vaccine. This is completely normal and will clear up in a few days. It is recommended that vaccine recipients do not take pain relief medication prior to vaccination, as it may decrease antibody response to the first dose of vaccine and lower its efficacy. However, studies on taking acetaminophen or ibuprofen to manage side effects after vaccination showed that the three FDA-approved vaccines still have a high efficacy rate: 95% for Pfizer-BioNTech, 94.1% for Moderna and 85% for Johnson & Johnson. Am I immune from ever getting COVID-19 after receiving the vaccine? The exact degree and duration of immunity after receiving an mRNA vaccine is currently unknown. There is no lab test to determine if you are immune and protected. However, according to CDC guidelines, should you be exposed to a case of COVID-19 at least 14 days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine, you do not need to quarantine. Nonetheless, it is important to monitor yourself for symptoms. Studies of the COVID-19 vaccines have only measured whether vaccinated people developed symptoms, not whether they got infected. You can become infected with the coronavirus and be asymptomatic (i.e., have no symptoms). Asymptomatic people can still spread COVID-19 to others. We believe that the vaccine reduces the risk of asymptomatic infections and there’s still the possibility that a vaccinated person could transmit the virus without knowing it. It is therefore important to continue taking precautions such as wearing your mask in some settings after being vaccinated. This will be especially true until we have more information about how much and how long these vaccines offer protection against infection and transmission. I have allergies and have heard of reactions. Should I get the vaccine? According to the Rhode Island Department of Health, people with a history of severe allergic reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) to other vaccines (i.e., not Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna or Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccines) or to an injectable medication should review their risks with a primary care provider. Depending on that assessment, they can be vaccinated. After vaccination, people who have no history of severe allergic reactions are asked to wait for 15 minutes at the vaccination site to be observed for potential side effects. People with a history of severe allergic reactions should be prepared for a 30-minute observation period. Individuals with a history of other allergies (e.g., to food, pets, insects, environmental allergies) or a family history of anaphylaxis should still be vaccinated. People with a history of severe allergic reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis) to any component of the COVID-19 vaccines should not be vaccinated. After my first dose, how long will it take to receive the second dose? What if I miss the second dose? Both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines require two doses. The Pfizer vaccine requires a second dose 21 days after the first dose, and the Moderna vaccine requires a second dose 28 days after the first dose. For both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, the first dose is the same as the second dose in terms of amount and its composition. The vaccines are not interchangeable. When you begin a vaccine series with one type of vaccine, the second vaccine must be of the same type. Updated guidance from the CDC states that the second dose should be administered as close to the recommended interval as possible. However, if it is not feasible to adhere to the recommended interval, the second dose of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna COVID-19 vaccines may be scheduled for administration up to six weeks (42 days) after the first dose. There are currently limited data on the efficacy of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines administered beyond this window. Despite the absence of efficacy data, if an unavoidable delay occurs, the second dose may be administered beyond the six-week window without restarting the series. The Johnson & Johnson vaccine is a single-dose vaccine. Are the vaccines interchangeable? Can I receive a second dose of a different vaccine? The current Pfizer and Moderna mRNA COVID-19 vaccines are not interchangeable with each other or with other COVID-19 vaccine products. The safety and efficacy of mixing these vaccines has not been evaluated. Per the CDC, in exceptional situations in which the first-dose vaccine product cannot be determined or is no longer available, any mRNA COVID-19 vaccine may be administered at a minimum of 28 days between doses. Should I get the vaccine if I have already tested positive for COVID-19? There is no reason to avoid vaccination if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past. This is especially true if your positive test was more than three months before your first dose of vaccine. While there is no minimum interval that is required between a positive test and vaccination, studies have shown that the vast majority of people have natural immunity for three months after infection. Therefore, vaccination is not as critical during that time. We understand that obtaining a vaccine even after testing positive for COVID-19 strengthens and lengthens the immune response that you develop. Is it safe to get the vaccine if I am pregnant, may become pregnant or am breastfeeding? Pregnant and breastfeeding women can be vaccinated if they choose, after they have had the opportunity to discuss risks and benefits with their healthcare providers. What resources should I consult if I have additional questions about vaccines? These are among the resources from the CDC and Rhode Island Department of Health accessible online: CDC COVID-19 Vaccine information Rhode Island Department of Health COVID-19 Vaccine Information Reopening Rhode Island COVID-19 Vaccine FAQs Last updated Dec. 14, 2021. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols. Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search COVID-19 Vaccine Frequently Asked Questions Open details for COVID-19 Vaccine Frequently Asked Questions Bookmark this Page