Skip to Main Content Brown University Health & Wellness Health Services Secondary Navigation Navigation Parents & Families Patient Portal Search Menu Site Navigation Home Services Appointments Health Requirements New Undergraduate Students New Graduate Students New Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions Request Medical Records Fees & Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) About Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Search Health & Wellness Health Services Fees and Insurance Fees and Insurance The Health Fee, also known as the Health and Wellness fee, is a mandatory fee paid per semester by all actively enrolled degree-seeking students. This fee covers all services provided in person and through telehealth by the medical providers at Health Services, therapists and psychiatrists at Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), and by the staff at BWell Health Promotion. There are also benefits such as 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-week nursing advice, on-call physicians, and CAPS after-hours services. Don't hesitate to call - most services are covered by the Health Services fee that you've already paid, regardless of your insurance. Information About the 2021-2022 Health Fee Back to Top The first case of COVID-19 was diagnosed in Rhode Island February 29th, two weeks before the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. For the entire year of 2020, the Health and Wellness staff have been diligently working to ensure continuity of safe and accessible healthcare for all of our students. This healthcare, along with other Health and Wellness Services, are and will continue to be available whether a student chooses to be here in person or study remotely. Health Services never closed their doors. We, along with other Health and Wellness departments continued to care for our students in person and/or via telehealth. Health and Wellness clinical and administrative staff also continue to be actively involved in many planning committees across the University that aim to enhance student health and wellbeing. Their clinical and professional expertise is a significant contribution to Healthy Brown 2020-2021 for all degree-seeking students. As indicated on the Bursar and Health Services websites, students studying remotely are not eligible for a waiver of the Health Services. Waivers of the Health Fee are only available to students who meet one of the following criteria listed below: Non-degree candidates other than guest students from other institutions; University regular employees; special students; faculty; and faculty/staff spouses with tuition benefits. We hope this information is helpful and you now understand how much is included within the health fee that will benefit you and your health and wellness during your remote studies along with the safety of the entire Brown Community. We hope you and your family are staying safe in this unpredictable time. Health Services Fee Back to Top The health fee assures access to primary care on campus for all students, so they can be seen on the day they choose without co-pays, deductibles, etc. Health Services does not bill any health insurance companies for any office visits to our provider staff. Health Services offers same-day appointments with medical providers 7 days a week, including evenings and weekends during the academic year. The health fee benefits all students. Our services include, but are not limited to: The primary care of staff physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and nursing Onsite waived laboratory testing An active Health Promotion department focusing on education, prevention, and counseling of health, drug, alcohol, sexual assault, and nutrition services. An onsite RI state-licensed Emergency Medical Services and ambulance which provides rapid response to on-campus emergencies Visits to Counseling and Psychological Services, including crisis visits Assured compliance with all legal health requirements such as immunizations Student outreach programs such as free flu shots and other activities to keep the campus safe and to respond to community health issues as they arise 24/7 nursing advice and on-call physician services For convenience, there are onsite contracted laboratory services and a full pharmacy (separate charges apply for these services and are billed to the student health insurance). The availability of an on-campus Health and Wellness assures confidentiality for all students, provides easy, convenient access to health care, and allows for minimal disruption to student academic activities. Health Services Fee Schedule Term Cost Academic Year 2022-2023, per Semester $518 Summer Fee 2022 $195 Academic Year 2021-2022, per Semester $503 What is Not Covered? The Health Services Fee does not cover charges for lab tests sent to diagnostic laboratories such as Lifespan, pharmacy charges, x-ray imaging, transport by any ambulance other than Brown, durable medical equipment (such as canes, crutches, or braces), or any visits to providers outside of Health Services (including consultants, hospitals and surgical centers). Fee Waiver Back to Top Waivers of the Health Services fee are available to students who meet one of the following requirements: Non-degree candidates other than guest students from other institutions; University regular employees; special students; faculty; and faculty/staff spouses with tuition benefits. Students studying remotely are not eligible for a waiver of the Health Services fee. Waiver Requests All must be requested in writing by October 15th for first semester and February 15th for the second. Waived students who access services will be charged the full semester fee. Submit requests to: Undergraduate Students: Kristie Sullivan, Associate Director, Health and Wellness Ph.D. and MFA Graduate Students: Jessica Porter, Operations and Student Affairs Specialist, Graduate School All other non-MFA Graduate Students: Andrea Resley, Assistant Director, Student Services, School of Professional Studies Medical Students: Email the Records and Registration Office at AMS-Student-Records@brown.edu. Health Insurance Back to Top In addition to the mandatory health fee, all students are required to have health insurance, either through a plan offered by the university or through a comparable health insurance plan. The health insurance can be waived if a student has comparable coverage through parental, personal, or spousal health insurance. The insurance is designed to cover services not covered by the health fee, such as offsite labs, pharmacy, consultant visits, and hospitalizations, etc. All students at Brown are charged for the Brown Sponsored Student Insurance Plan (SHIP). This may be waived if you are covered by a comparable plan. Any questions may be directed to studenthealthinsuranceplan@brown.edu. Insurance Card Be prepared when you come to Brown and know who your health insurance company is. Bring your insurance card, or a copy, each time you come for health care and keep Health Services up to date with any changes in your coverage. Prescription Plan Card Some students may also have an insurance prescription plan. Generally, this is a separate card from your insurance and you will want to bring the card or a copy of the front and the back of the card. Present the information to the pharmacy prior to having your prescription filled. Summer Health Coverage Back to Top Students Continuing Enrollment A Health Fee is assessed each semester to provide access to care at Health Services and Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) during your semesters of study. The summer health fee ($195.00) allows students who are not part of summer semester to access care at Health Services and/or CAPS between May 31 and August 27, 2022. Any student who is not part of summer semester and has an in-person or telehealth appointment with a Health Services or CAPS provider between May 31 and August 27, 2022 will have the one-time summer health fee of $195 charged to their bursar account. To be eligible to pay the fee and access Health Services or CAPS services, you must be an actively enrolled student for Fall 2022 semester. If you have questions regarding this charge, please email health-and-wellness@brown.edu. Students may use the Health Services pharmacy without paying the summer health fee. Students Completing Their Degree If you are completing your degree, congratulations! Regarding your eligibility and continuity of health care, after May 29th: You will no longer be eligible for services at Health Services or CAPS; however, we can help coordinate your follow-up care. You may use pharmacy and lab for existing orders during the summer. To transfer a prescription, please have your pharmacy call us at 401-863-7882. If you are covered by the Student Health Insurance Plan, your coverage is in effect through August 14, 2021. Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Services Appointments Health Requirements New Undergraduate Students New Graduate Students New Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions Request Medical Records Fees & Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) About Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Parents & Families Patient Portal This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Fees and Insurance Open details for Fees and Insurance Bookmark this Page