Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Forms and Guidelines Keeping Our Community Healthy Student Ambassador Training Keeping Our Community Healthy Student Ambassador Training August 26, 2021 Webform Columbia University has established the Community Health Compact as guidance for the expectations of community members returning to campus. Columbia Health, in collaboration with University Life and the CUIMC Student Health on Haven, is offering a training to equip students with the knowledge and skills to establish norms around following public health best practices. To request a training for a group of student leaders in your department or your organization, please complete the request form below. Please note the following when submitting your request: This session is 90-minutes long and cannot be condensed. We require at least two weeks in advance of the requested session to allow adequate time for scheduling. If we are unable to accommodate your original requested date or time, we will work with you to make arrangements or suggest an alternative date or time for the requested training. The start time for the training request must be no later than 8pm EST. Generally, we ask that at least 10 participants be present at the start of the scheduled training. Requests for trainings for groups with fewer than 10 participants will be considered on a case-by-case basis prior to confirming the requested session. Event hosts will be asked to send participants a pre-test to complete prior to the training. Facilitated by Alice! Health Promotion. First and Last Name UNI Email Address Affiliation - Select -StudentFaculty/Staff On behalf of which School/Office/Department/Organization are you requesting the training? Preferred Date (Monday-Friday) Preferred Time (EST) Expected Number of Participants Submit Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close