Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Physical Activity Physical Activity Physical activity is essential to your health and well-being, and it supports you in achieving your personal and academic goals. Benefits of Regular Physical Activity Reduces stress Increases productivity Improves quality of sleep Improves self-esteem and body image The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also list the following benefits of physical activity: Strengthens bones and muscles Improves mental health and mood Reduces risk of cardiovascular disease Reduces risk for type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome Reduces risk for some cancers Get Started Being physically active means choosing programs and activities that work. The following links provide useful resources to consider when getting started. Seven Benefits of Regular Physical Activity (Mayo Clinic) Physical Activity Basics (CDC) Gymtimidation: Intimidated by Working Out at Health Clubs (Go Ask Alice!) Reaching Your Goals the SMART Way (American Council on Exercise) Three Things Every Exercise Program Should Have (American Council on Exercise) How to Choose the Right Personal Trainer (American Council on Exercise) Stay Motivated Finding the motivation to stick with a physical activity plan can be a challenge at times. While motivation is unique to each individual, the many rewards are universal and include benefits to academic performance, energy level, mood, and immune function. The following links provide some helpful resources for maintaining motivation: Battling Boredom (American Council on Exercise) Staying Motivated for Fitness (American Heart Association) Exercise Motivation...for Stress Reduction (Go Ask Alice!) Is Soreness a Good Indicator of a Good Workout? (Go Ask Alice!) Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close