Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Coronavirus Covid-19 Health Information Covid-19 Vaccines at Georgia Tech We have a powerful tool in the fight against the coronavirus. Covid-19 vaccines are available at Georgia Tech for those who are eligible. 9 Things to Know About the Covid-19 Vaccines. Vaccine Update as of April 8, 2022 Following U.S. Federal Drug Administration authorization, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has approved a second booster dose of the Pfizer or Moderna Covid-19 vaccine for certain individuals at risk for severe illness. Recommendations now include: A second booster dose of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine can be given to individuals 50 years old or older at least 4 months after receipt of a first booster dose of any authorized or approved Covid-19 vaccine. A second booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine can be given to individuals 12 years of age or older at least 4 months after receipt of a first booster dose of any authorized or approved Covid-19 vaccine if the individual is immunocompromised (solid organ transplant or a condition causing an equivalent level of immunocompromise). A second booster dose of Moderna vaccine can be given to individuals 18 years of age or older at least 4 months after receipt of a first booster dose of any authorized or approved Covid-19 vaccine if the individual is immunocompromised (solid organ transplant or a condition causing an equivalent level of immunocompromise). Stamps Health Services is able to administer a second booster dose of the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine during vaccine clinic hours to eligible individuals. Individuals seeking a Moderna vaccine booster are encouraged to locate an alternative vaccination site at www.vaccines.gov. Vaccine Eligibility and Appointments Georgia Tech is following the vaccine eligibility guidelines set by the Georgia Department of Public Health. If you are eligible, you will need to register for a vaccination appointment using mytest.gatech.edu – the same system currently used for Covid-19 surveillance testing. To register for a vaccine appointment, follow these instructions: How to Schedule a Covid-19 Vaccine Appointment. If you are making a vaccine appointment for a spouse, domestic partner, or dependent child age 12 years or older, you will need to first create a temporary Georgia Tech Guest Account for your family member. To create a guest account, follow these instructions: How to Schedule a Vaccine Appointment for a Georgia Tech Family Member. We will continue to open appointments for the coming weeks. To receive notifications when new appointments are available, you may subscribe to updates at mytest.status.gatech.edu. Vaccine Clinic Location and Dates Stamps Health Services - 740 Ferst Drive, Atlanta, GA 30332 From 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Tuesday, April 26 Tuesday, May 17 Tuesday, June 7 and 28 Tuesday, July 19 Parking is provided in the W02 deck. Prior to your appointment, review the instructions for prepare for your vaccination. Frequently Asked Questions Answers to questions about vaccine administration at Georgia Tech. Covid-19 Vaccine FAQs Vaccine Administration Data View the number of doses Georgia Tech has received and how many have been administered to date. Covid-19 Vaccine Dashboard Vaccine Resources Georgia Department of Public Health Covid Vaccine Information Find an Alternative Covid-19 Vaccination Site Centers for Disease Control and Prevention What to Expect at Your Appointment to Get Vaccinated for COVID-19 About the Vaccine Georgia Tech biomedical engineering professors Phil Santangelo and James Dahlman discuss how the COVID-19 vaccine is made and how it works. Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login