Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Nursing Graduate Programs Alumni Primary care in rural Oklahoma advanced practice Taking care into the community > School of Nursing > Nursing Graduate Programs https://youtu.be/S2BLOUY-5jQ Apply Now Request Information NURSING Nursing Undergraduate Programs Nursing Graduate Programs Nursing Facilities Faculty News Contact the Department The future of health care depends on strong leadership from excellent clinicians. The doctor of nursing practice (DNP) programs at TU provide this education through rigorous didactic and clinical experiences that prepare nurses to provide care and lead change into the future. The School of Nursing offers four cutting-edge advanced practice nursing graduate programs that culminate with the DNP degree: Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner (AG-ACNP) Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Nurse Anesthesia (NA) Post-Master’s to DNP These programs are taught by practicing experts in their fields. Students learn through active learning experiences using state-of-the-art human patient simulation and hands-on learning through facilitated onsite clinical experiences. Students are matched with faculty and preceptors that will promote their development. Faculty believe that students should be free to concentrate on learning rather than the administrative work of locating preceptors. We want to invest in you. Generous DNP scholarships — up to $10,000 — may be available for qualified applicants. Apply here. 100%: That’s the proportion of our spring 2020 DNP program graduates who passed their certification exams in spring/summer 2020. These first-time test-takers studied hard, rose to the challenge and are now well on the road to making a measurable impact on their patients’ lives and the health care system. “After considering different colleges, TU’s DNP program stood out as the best option for me. The combination of online and on-campus learning was the perfect way for me to achieve the expertise I was looking for.” – Charlon Orr, DNP ’20 Accreditation All of our DNP programs have been approved by the Oklahoma Board of Nursing. The School of Nursing is a member of the National League for Nursing and the American Association of Colleges of Nursing. DNP graduates are eligible to apply to sit for national board certification in their respective field of study. The AG-ACNP, FNP and MSN to DNP programs have been accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN), 3343 Peachtree Road NE, Suite 850, Atlanta, GA 30326. The NA program has been accredited by the Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs (COA), 222 S. Prospect Ave., Park Ridge, IL 60068 (847-655-1160; coanet.org). Program objectives The core DNP curriculum is based on the guidelines set forth by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing Essentials of Doctoral Education for Advanced Nursing Practice that denotes eight essential broad competencies to be met by the DNP program graduates. Program learning outcomes are program specific. At the completion of the program, students will: Develop new practice approaches based on nursing theory and theories borrowed from other disciplines to improve health and reduce health disparities locally, nationally and globally. Employ strategic leadership skills and inter-professional collaboration to influence health policy, advocate for social justice, and promote equity locally, nationally and globally. Implement ethical, cost effective and evidence-based changes in care systems, while advancing the profession. Provide leadership at the highest levels to design, direct and evaluate system changes to deliver and promote patient-centered care that is culturally competent, safe, timely, effective, efficient and equitable. Engage in complex, evidence-based advanced nursing practice, and evaluate innovative approaches to care delivery for individuals, communities and populations. Admission process APPLY NOW https://graduate.utulsa.edu/admission/applying Prospective graduate students apply for admission through the Graduate School. You will submit your application, supporting material and a $60 application fee through the Graduate School application system. If you have any questions or problems with the TU Graduate School application link, please contact grad@utulsa.edu or 918-631-2336. Applications are reviewed throughout the spring and summer until spaces are filled. Applications are reviewed as they are received and potential candidates will be scheduled for an interview. Admission requirements Current unencumbered Oklahoma Registered Nurse license A bachelor’s degree in nursing (BSN) from an accredited nursing program Recommended overall GPA of 3.0 Further requirements are track specific: Nurse Anesthesia: minimum of one year (2,080 hours) of full-time experience within the two years prior to application in an intensive care or coronary care unit, or the equivalent hours if working part time (Click here for full NA program admission requirements.) Post-master’s to DNP completion: certification and experience as an advanced practice nurse Graduate program FAQ Do I need to take the GRE? No. The GRE is not required. Do I need board certifications (CCRN, RN-BC, CEN)? CCRN is not required but preferred. We take into consideration all additional education and certifications. What is the typical schedule? The schedule will vary according to semester [refer to NA course (years 1,2, and 3)]. Once in clinical practicum schedule is based on clinical placement. Can I work and attend school? The program is full-time for 36 consecutive months. The time commitment is extensive, especially during clinical practicum. This may preclude outside employment. Is this an online/distance program? This is a hybrid program. Core didactic nursing courses are online delivered asynchronously using Blackboard. Anesthesia specific didactic courses are delivered in person as are courses utilizing the Human Patient Simulation lab. In person didactic and simulation courses are in the Oxley College of Health Sciences building in downtown Tulsa. What are the clinical sites? The main clinical sites are in the Tulsa metropolitan area with optional enrichment sites throughout Oklahoma and neighboring states. The main clinical sites are St. John Medical Center, Saint Francis Hospital, Hillcrest Medical Center, and Bristow Medical Center. What undergraduate courses are required? Satisfactory completion of undergraduate courses in anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, physical assessment, statistics, biology, and chemistry. Are pediatric or neonatal ICU experiences acceptable? Yes. There is no preference for the type of ICU experience. The acuity of the ICU and any leadership roles within the unit/organization are taken into consideration. Application requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of purpose (admission essay) 2 letters of recommendation from a coworker and a supervisor Nurse Anesthesia: 3 letters (1 academic, 1 current supervisor, 1 physician, APRN, or RN familiar with your critical care skills) Official or unofficial transcripts from ALL universities attended Documentation of a current Registered Nurse license Evidence of appropriate clinical experience: Nurse Anesthesia: minimum of one year (2,080 hours) of full-time experience within the two years prior to application in an intensive care or coronary care unit, or the equivalent hours if working part-time (Click here for full NA program admission requirements.) Post-master’s to DNP completion: certification and experience as an advanced practice nurse $60 application fee Applicants for whom English is not their first language must take the TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo exam and have an official copy of their results sent to The University of Tulsa Graduate School. For more information on English language requirements, please review TU’s language proficiency policy. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT