Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Travel-related Guidance for Students Breadcrumb Home Prevention Sub Navigation In This Section Travel-related Guidance for Students Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs Travel-related Guidance for Students Travel-Related Guidance for Undergraduate Students Undergraduate student travelers are encouraged to carefully review these guidelines and to email Christine Sprovieri, Director, International Travel Risk Management at christine_Sprovieri@brown.edu with specific questions that are not addressed below. University-Sponsored Domestic Individual Travel Brown has lifted undergraduate travel restrictions for individual students and student organizations undertaking University-sponsored domestic travel. Undergraduate students may travel domestically within the United States; pre-approval from Student Support Services is no longer required. University-Sponsored International Individual Travel A summary of what is required and what travel is permitted is provided below, and more information about Brown’s international travel policy is available on the International Travel Risk Management website. All students may travel to countries rated as U.S. DOS Level 1 or 2, and/or CDC Level 1, and/or CDC COVID-19 Level 1 or Level 2 as part of University-sponsored travel. . Any undergraduate, graduate or medical student wishing to engage in University-sponsored travel to a High-Risk Travel destination (U.S. DOS Level 3 or Level 4, or CDC Level 2 or Level 3, or CDC COVID-19 Level 3 or COVID-19 Level 4) and not traveling with a Brown-administered group program — e.g. through the Office of International Programs (OIP), Swearer Center, Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME), GELT/Wintersession, etc. — must complete a Safety Plan via TravelSafe and obtain permission from the Global Travel Risk Assessment Committee (GTRAC) prior to making travel arrangements. All students are required to register their travel plans in TravelSafe. In the event that worldwide travel risk levels and/or public health conditions change, Brown reserves the right to amend its travel policy or revise the conditions for travel approval, as applicable. As with any University-sponsored activity, Brown expects all community members, including students, to comply with national, state and local laws, as well as requirements of the community and/or organization to which they are traveling Exempt Unvaccinated Student Travel Guidance All students should observe safety guidelines from the CDC and Rhode Island Department of Health regarding travel during the COVID-19 pandemic. Traveling internationally is discouraged by the CDC unless you are fully vaccinated. The CDC requires travelers to show proof of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19 before boarding a flight to the United States from a foreign country and to provide a negative COVID-19 test result from 3 days or less before travel, or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 within the 3 months prior to flying to the U.S. If traveling to Rhode Island from a location outside the U.S. or U.S. territories, travelers are not required to quarantine or get tested after arrival, regardless of vaccination status. Further travel guidance is available on the CDC and RIDOH websites. Personal Travel Guidance As with University-sponsored travel, Brown continues to encourage all travelers on domestic and international personal travel to exercise caution and abide by relevant local and country health guidance. Travelers should continue to prepare for the possibility of local quarantines and fluctuating travel and domestic operations restrictions and/or testing requirements in some locations. The University is unable to support the health, safety, travel and academic needs of community members on personal travel. Many countries continue to impose border entry restrictions, including mandatory quarantine and testing or COVID-19 vaccination requirements, so it is essential for all international travelers to continually review their destination travel requirements and remain apprised of U.S. re-entry guidelines. All members of the community should actively monitor the U.S. Department of State website, the CDC website and the International SOS pandemic website for updates (via login through Brown’s membership number: 11BSGC000031), as travel and entry restrictions continue to evolve and could change with little advance warning. Travelers should also review the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH) guidance for returning to Rhode Island after travel outside the state. Last updated March 3, 2022. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Travel-related Guidance for Students Open details for Travel-related Guidance for Students Bookmark this Page