Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours On this page, you will find information on where to pick-up and drop-off Color Health COVID testing kits. For information about COVID testing requirements, please visit this page. Two locations for Color test kit pickup will be closed after Friday, April 8: Escondido Village Graduate Residences and Li Ka Shing Center. Pickup hours for the Environmental Health & Safety and Arrillaga Family Dining Commons locations will be extended. The availability of 24/7 dropboxes will not change. For test kit drop off and pick up: A Stanford University ID is required each time you wish to pick up a testing kit. If you are returning a testing kit, it needs to be returned on the same day as you perform the nasal swab to a testing site during operating hours or at a 24/7 dropbox. All samples should be activated, collected and returned on the same day. Participants are limited to two Color samples per week. Stanford COVID-19 testing locations and hours (updated April 8, 2022) Downloadable Flyers – test kit drop off and pick up locations: Stanford University locations: Download Stanford COVID-19 testing locations flyer for summary of test kit pick up and drop off sites (view location map) Stanford Medicine locations (e.g., Stanford Health Care, Stanford Children’s Hospital, Stanford Health Care – ValleyCare, University HealthCare Alliance and School of Medicine): Stanford University faculty, staff and postdocs may also utilize Stanford Medicine Color testing sites across the Bay Area. Please bring your Stanford ID to pick up test kits. (View and download Stanford Medicine flyer for locations and hours of operation) Locations of test kit drop off and pick up: Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) 484 Oak Road, Stanford Located in tents outside the building Kit pick up hours: Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. 24/7 kit drop box available outside front entrance Note: Samples dropped off at the 24/7 kit drop box will be taken to the Color lab at 12 p.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays, and 5 p.m. on weekends. Arrillaga Outdoor Education and Recreation Center (AOERC) 285 Santa Teresa St, Stanford Kit pickup at front desk, kit dropoff at bin outside front entrance Kit pickup hours during open hours: Monday – Thursday, 6 a.m. – 10:00 p.m. Friday, 6 a.m. – 8 p.m. Saturday – Sunday, 9 a.m. – 7 p.m. 24/7 kit drop off box available outside front entrance Note: Samples dropped off at the 24/7 kit drop box will be taken to the Color lab at 12 p.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays, and 5 p.m. on weekends. Arrillaga Center for Sports and Recreation (ACSR) 341 Galvez St, Stanford Kit pickup at front desk, kit dropoff at bin outside front entrance Kit pickup and drop off hours: Monday – Thursday, 6 a.m. – 10:00 p.m. Friday, 6 a.m. – 8 p.m. Saturday – Sunday, 9 a.m. – 7 p.m. Arrillaga Family Dining Commons (AFDC) 489 Arguello Way, Stanford Kit pickup at front entrance Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Nearby 24/7 kit drop off box at Escondido Road turnaround Note: Samples dropped off at the 24/7 kit drop box will be taken to the Color lab at 12 p.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays, and 5 p.m. on weekends. Stanford Redwood City 900 Warrington, Stanford Recreation and Wellness Front Desk C parking, visitor parking, and limited number of loading zone spaces available Kit pick up hours: Mon-Fri, 10 a.m. – 6 p.m. 24/7 kit drop box available at Cardinal Hall/Warrington Note: Samples dropped off at the 24/7 kit drop box will be taken to the Color lab at lab at 12 p.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays, and 5 p.m. on weekends. Hopkins Marine Station 120 Ocean View Blvd, Pacific Grove CA 93950 Located in Monterey Boat Works lecture room Kit pick up and drop off: First Wednesdays of the month, 10 a.m. – 12 p.m. Unmonitored test kit drop off boxes (available 24/7): Note: Samples dropped off at the 24/7 kit drop boxes will be taken by courier to the Color lab at 12 p.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays, and at 5 p.m. on weekends. Main campus: AOERC, 285 Santa Teresa Street Located outside front entrance Environmental Health & Safety, 484 Oak Road Located outside front entrance Li Ka Shing Building, 291 Campus Drive Located outside entrance facing Campus Drive Escondido Road turnaround Curbside box between Stern Hall and Crothers Hall) EVGR, Building B Outside Housing Service Center entrance, facing parking lot on corner of Campus Drive and Serra Street Maples Pavilion turnaround Curbside box near 655 Campus Drive 900 Welch Road, Palo Alto Curbside dropbox in parking lot Stanford Oval Curbside dropbox next to Marguerite/bus stop, adjacent to FedEx and USPS dropboxes LBRE – 340 Bonair Siding Located outside main entrance Stanford Research Park: 3165 Porter Drive, Palo Alto Located outside entrance of building next to UPS box 1070 Arastradero Ave, Palo Alto Located outside entrance of building Stanford Redwood City: Cardinal Hall/Warrington, Redwood City Located outside front entrance Group Requests for Large Quantity Test Kit Pickup Schools/units may request large quantity test pickup for workgroup, lab, or department distribution, if members of the group are unable to pick up kits at Color Test Pick Up Sites due to special circumstances. To request a large quantity of test kits to pick up from EH&S, please submit this form. Please note: If you have the ability to serve as a test kit distribution site for your area, please contact covidtestinghelp@stanford.edu. See also Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations Rapid Antigen Tests COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Prevention & self-care Campus hygiene Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Mandatory self-reporting to Stanford Let Stanford know if you are awaiting test results or have tested COVID-positive, or if you are sick with certain COVID-19 symptoms. Learn how to self-report Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.