Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search COVID-19 testing options for affiliates This page provides more information about the testing programs available for affiliates/other members of the Stanford community. Individuals involved with patient care Stanford Medicine has launched a COVID-19 testing program with Color Genomics, which provides testing to physicians, clinicians, medical residents, fellows, and postdocs who work in patient care areas and perform clinical research in a medical setting. People eligible to use the Color testing program are those without any symptoms or those who can work remotely while waiting for results. To protect the health of our patients and our health care workers, and to preserve the safety of the Stanford Medicine health care environment, all health system employees, trainees and others who regularly work within the health system are required to be vaccinated against COVID-19, effective August 15, 2021 (see Employee FAQs on vaccination requirement program). All employees are required to disclose their vaccination status to SHC Occupational Health. Vaccinated individuals should test if they are experiencing COVID-like symptoms and/or following exposure to someone who tests positive for COVID-19. Vaccinated individuals are encouraged to test upon return from travel. Unvaccinated individuals will be required to follow testing requirements as directed by their organization and occupational health. All individuals in healthcare facilities must wear a face covering when indoors regardless of vaccination status. Those who are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms should contact the COVID-19 Healthcare Workforce Response Team (HRT) at 650-497-9595 or SHC-VC OccHealth at 925-534-0230. Stanford Medicine employees should review hospital intranet sites for updated information. Stanford service vendors All service vendors coming to campus must maintain COVID-19 safety management practices consistent with Cal/OSHA COVID-19 Prevention requirements (Title 8 CCR 3205) and university policies (i.e., monitor health symptoms, positive COVID-19 case reporting) when working in Stanford buildings. For information, visit Service Vendor Expectations (link is external). Other Stanford affiliates Temporary and Casual Employees (including paid interns) Temporary and casual employees are required to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Vaccinated individuals should test if they are experiencing COVID-like symptoms and/or following exposure to someone who tests positive for COVID-19. Vaccinated individuals may choose to test upon return from travel. Effective August 9, individuals who are not vaccinated will be required to test twice per week, and should check with their local unit or program to establish access to the Stanford surveillance testing program. Note: To ensure compliance with Santa Clara County and Cal/OSHA requirements, all temporary employees who are on-site are still required to self-report their health status using the Health Check tool. However, fully vaccinated faculty, staff and postdocs who have (1) listed their vaccination date(s) and manufacturers in Health Check and (2) uploaded an image of their documentation on Health Check will not be required to make daily Health Check submissions when coming to campus (unless they become symptomatic, receive a positive COVID test result, are exposed to household members who have tested positive) or to undergo regular testing. Effective September 9, Health Check requires faculty, staff and postdocs who are vaccinated to upload an image of their vaccine documentation. See Health Check for the latest guidelines. Visiting Scholars, Researchers and other Temporary Community Members (including Cardinal Temps and unpaid interns on campus for three weeks or more) All Visiting Scholars, Researchers and temporary community members with a regular presence on campus are required to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 and fill out this Health Attestation form. This requirement will apply to those at Stanford locations in Santa Clara and San Mateo counties, including the SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, as well as SAL3 in Livermore and Hopkins Marine Station. Unvaccinated individuals in this group are not permitted to come on campus or test regularly as an alternative to vaccination. Note: Unpaid interns who are on campus for less than three weeks are considered visitors to Stanford. Please check the Visitors section of Health Alerts for more information. Contractors Stanford requires that contractors performing services on-site at any Stanford location in Santa Clara County and/or San Mateo County comply with all applicable county health orders, as well as adhere to the university’s guidance on face coverings. In addition, unvaccinated contractors are required to test weekly at the contractor’s expense through their health care provider. While contractors cannot access Stanford’s surveillance testing program, they can test at one of Stanford Health Care’s locations throughout the Bay Area, or through a county testing site (see resources below). COVID-related guidance is updated frequently. Please review this page and Health Alerts for updates. What happens if a vendor, contractor or affiliate tests positive for COVID-19?
Those who test positive should self-isolate and refrain from coming to Stanford’s campuses. If an individual tests positive within 14 days of coming to Stanford, they should report the result to their Stanford supervisor or sponsor, who will complete the Contractor COVID-19 Case Reporting form. COVID-19 Testing Options County testing programs San Mateo County offers testing for anyone who lives or works in San Mateo County regardless of symptoms. Cost: There is no cost, but if you have health insurance, it may be billed. Appointments: For scheduling details, visit https://www.smcgov.org/testing Santa Clara County offers testing to residents per the County’s Testing Order. Cost: Testing is free regardless of immigration status, and no doctor’s note is needed. No up-front costs and no health insurance required. If you have health insurance, you will be asked to share that information. Appointments: For scheduling details, visit www.sccfreetest.org; Pop-up testing sites are also available with no appointment needed for individuals who are asymptomatic. Stanford Health Plans and Providers Stanford Health Care (SHC) plan members may request a COVID-19 test and the system will triage scheduling based upon clinical priority. Cost: Testing cost may be covered in a variety of ways, including health insurance, COVID CARES Act or by Occupational Health, depending on the individual’s circumstances. Appointments: For scheduling details visit https://stanfordhealthcare.org/discover/covid-19-resource-center/testing.html or call 650-498-9000 or book an appointment in MyHealth. For Individuals who are NOT existing Stanford Health Care patients: Please contact your current provider first to inquire about COVID-19 testing. If testing is not readily available, you can contact Stanford Express Care at (650) 498-9000 for phone screening and assistance scheduling the testing. Kaiser plan members, anyone receiving urgent/emergency care at Kaiser facilities, and essential workers may request a COVID-19 test. Cost: Testing is free for Kaiser members through Dec 31, if Kaiser deems the test is necessary. Appointments: Visit kp.org to login and request a test. You may need to answer a few questions. Appointments are scheduled within 1-2 days. Palo Alto Medical Foundation (PAMF). An evaluation by a clinician is required to determine if you need a COVID-19 test. If you meet testing criteria, your doctor or a clinician will order a test and refer you to a testing site. Cost: PAMF will charge the member’s health plan, but members may be responsible for a portion of the cost. Appointments: Sutter Health members should start the appointment process by calling the COVID-19 advice line at (866) 961-2889. Report to Stanford if you tested COVID-positive See also Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations Rapid Antigen Tests COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Prevention & self-care Campus hygiene Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Mandatory self-reporting to Stanford Let Stanford know if you are awaiting test results or have tested COVID-positive, or if you are sick with certain COVID-19 symptoms. Learn how to self-report Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.