Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home For Students Medical Records Stamps Health Services is committed to allowing individuals to exercise their rights under HIPAA and other applicable federal and state laws and will take necessary steps to address individual requests to access, inspect, and/or obtain a copy of their health information in a timely and professional manner. Pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), individuals have the right to access, inspect, and/or obtain a copy of their protected health information (PHI). All requests for the disclosure of protected health information are handled by the Medical Record Department. Your medical record is kept confidential at all times and is not associated with your academic record. Medical records are retained for a period of 10 years following graduation or your last treatment at Stamps. Need Assistance? Call us at (404) 894-9236 Schedule an appointment online Use our online support form Visit the contact page Request Medical Records You can obtain a copy of your medical records by using the following methods: In-person: You may make a request in person at the Medical Records desk located on the second floor or Information desk located on the first floor. You need to complete our Release of Information Form and present picture identification. By Email: Please complete the Release of Information Form in its entirety with an appropriate signature, scan and attach to medicalrecords@health.gatech.edu Please Note: Email is not a secure method of communication. We encourage you to submit your request through one of the other methods. In Writing: Please complete the Release of Information Form with an appropriate signature and mail the form to Health Services - ATTN: Medical Records, 740 Ferst Drive Atlanta, GA 30332-0470. If you are unable to download the form, send a written request including your nine-digit gtID# number, date of birth, address to send your records, years attended, and daytime phone number and appropriate signature to the address above. Please allow up to 30 days for processing. By Fax: Please complete the Release of Information Form with an appropriate signature and cover page and fax the form to Health Services at (404) 894-0626. ATTN: Medical Records. Please allow up to 30 days for processing. If you need any assistance, please contact Medical Records at (404) 894-9236. Download Release of Information Form To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. HIPAA Patient HIPAA Rights Patient Rights and Responsibilities HIPAA Forms Privacy Rights Complaint Form Request for an Accounting of Disclosures Request for an Amendment to Health Information Request for Restrictions on Uses and Disclosures of Health Information Request for Confidential or Alternative Methods of Communication To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Contact: John Scuderi Director, Health Operations/Privacy Officer Email: john.scuderi@health.gatech.edu Notice of Privacy Practices Medical Records follows the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and applicable state law. The HIPAA Privacy Rule requires Stamps to distribute a notice that provides a clear, user-friendly explanation of individuals rights with respect to their personal health information and the privacy practices of Stamps. ENGLISH VERSION SPANISH VERSION Download Notice of Privacy Practices Form To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Fees Copies of immunizations and medical records are $5.00 per each request. Looking for Covid-19 Health Information? Learn about Covid-19 prevention, symptoms, testing, and vaccines: Covid-19 Health Information Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login