Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Mary K. Chapman Speech & Hearing Clinic My TU Story Flexible schedule helps Oxley College of Health Sciences student study abroad Mary K. Chapman Speech and Hearing Clinic For appointments call (918) 631-2504 2820 East 5th Street, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104-9700 Map SPEECH & HEARING CLINIC Support Groups Clinic Scholarships Cleft Palate Craniofacial Clinic Free speech-language-hearing screenings Summer Speech & Language Groups The Mary K. Chapman Center is now open for in-person therapy and telepractice sessions or evaluations. The Mary K. Chapman Center for Communicative Disorders at The University of Tulsa provides professional audiology and speech-language pathology services to individuals of all ages. The center is a clinical learning facility of the speech-language pathology program. University students, under supervision of the program’s faculty, provide assessment and therapy services for a variety of speech, language and hearing disorders. The center is located in a well-equipped building accessible to persons with disabilities. All audiology and speech-language pathology faculty are certified by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association and are licensed by the State of Oklahoma Board of Examiners for Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology. The clinic is open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Call 918-631-2504 for appointments. Clinical Services The clinic provides a variety of services by appointment. Medical, educational and self-referrals are accepted. Services available include: Free speech-language and hearing screening tests for children Free hearing screenings for adults Speech-language assessment (evaluation) Hearing evaluation Speech-language therapy Monthly Cleft Palate Team Audiologic rehabilitation (including cochlear implant) Augmentative communication FREE SPEECH, LANGUAGE AND HEARING SCREENINGS ON FRIDAYS Please contact Amy Boewe at 918-631-2504 or email amb2116@utulsa.edu for an appointment or additional information. Please complete the Child Case History Form or Adult History Form prior to scheduling an appointment. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT