Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search COVID-19 resources for the Stanford community Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff This site provides the Stanford community with important updates related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Skip Current policies and status Current policies and status Below is an overview of current policies and protocols at Stanford related to the COVID-19 pandemic. These will continue to be adjusted as the public health situation changes. With certain exceptions, face coverings are no longer required but continue to be strongly recommended on-site, regardless of vaccination status. Face coverings are required in classrooms; however, individuals may remove face coverings while speaking. We encourage everyone to respect the choices that individuals make about their own masking. In compliance with a federal order, all Stanford faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars, including those working remotely in the United States, and applicable subcontractors were required to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 and upload documentation on Health Check by Jan. 4, 2022, unless they have a medical or religious accommodation. Students were required to be vaccinated and to provide documentation of a booster, unless they have a medical or religious accommodation, by Jan. 31, 2022. Read more here. COVID-19 vaccines are being administered by health care providers to eligible individuals based on criteria set by public health authorities. For the most current information, visit the Vaccinations page. Face coverings are required in classrooms pending further assessment; however, individuals may remove face coverings while speaking. Color and rapid testing remain available to all students at these locations. Dining halls offer indoor dining at full capacity, with Clean Dining protocols. Research activities continue at Stanford. Guidance for researchers is available here. Additional guidance is available on COVID policies, flexible work resources and requirements for returning to work on-site at Stanford. Weekly asymptomatic surveillance testing for vaccinated faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars and for fully vaccinated and boosted students (undergraduates, graduate students and students enrolled in professional degree programs) has been suspended. Twice-weekly testing continues to be required for faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars who are not fully vaccinated, and for students who are not fully vaccinated and boosted. Color testing continues to be available, up to two tests per week, for anyone who wishes to continue to use Color for regular asymptomatic testing. Testing is strongly recommended whenever you are experiencing symptoms, concerned about possible exposure or returning to campus from travel. Dashboards provide aggregated results for the Stanford community. See the Testing page for more information. Health Check to self-report health status is required for employees and postdocs working in-person at a Stanford facility. Daily Health Check submissions are not required for faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars coming to campus who are fully vaccinated for COVID-19 (documentation uploaded on Health Check) or fully vaccinated students on campus (documentation on the Vaden Health Portal) unless they become symptomatic, have a positive COVID test or are exposed to household members who have tested positive. Training on COVID hygiene is required before returning to work at a campus location for the first time. Gatherings are required to comply with current COVID-19 event modifications, detailed here. Please email eventsafetyteam@stanford.edu for more information, and visit Health Alerts and student gatherings for the latest guidance. Guests from outside the Stanford community are permitted to visit student residences effective Oct. 8, 2021. Guests must comply with the Residence Agreement and follow the university’s COVID-19 visitor policy. Additional information on visiting scholars, researchers, nonmatriculated students and other visitors is available here and here. The university made important updates to its domestic and international travel policy effective March 28, 2022. While these changes are intended to help campus units plan for future activities, Stanford recommends that unvaccinated non-U.S. citizens do not travel outside of the United States given the uncertainty around entry requirements. Current requirements and updates effective March 28 are available here. COVID Dashboards Stanford’s COVID dashboards provide daily and weekly updates about COVID surveillance testing, isolation, and prevalence in the Stanford community. See the dashboards Latest Updates Subscribe to updates Reminder of COVID presence and value of masking May 16, 2022 As fluctuating case numbers and circulating variants remind us, COVID has not gone away. As campus activities increase, masking, testing and other health protocols are crucial to our efforts to minimize COVID spread. Read more about Reminder of COVID presence and value of masking Wastewater-based COVID data April 27, 2022 Data used to monitor COVID prevalence, based on analysis of campus wastewater, is now available on Stanford’s COVID dashboards. Read more about Wastewater-based COVID data See all COVID-19 announcements Testing, Prevention & Care What should I do if I'm feeling ill? Learn how to access care if you think you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19. Learn more about what to do if you're feeling ill Where can I get tested? Find out where you can get tested for COVID-19 if you are on or near campus. (Stanford's five drive-through testing locations are available to all insurances.) Learn more about where you can get tested Mandatory self-reporting to Stanford Let Stanford know if you are awaiting test results or have tested COVID-positive, or if you are sick with certain COVID-19 symptoms. Learn how to self-report Where can I get a vaccine? Find out about COVID vaccine eligibility and where to receive a vaccine, based on the county in which you reside. Learn more about getting a vaccine Prevention & self-care Learn about ways to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and maintain good mental and emotional health. Learn more about prevention and self-care Campus hygiene Learn about Stanford’s enhanced cleaning and disinfection procedures and follow instructions to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about campus hygiene Social distancing protocol Learn about the steps Stanford is taking to comply with the Social Distancing Protocol requirement. Learn more about Stanford's social distancing protocol Travel information Find current travel advisories and resources for re-booking and cancellations, and learn what to do if you are returning to campus from an out-of-state trip. Learn more about travel and returning to campus from traveling out of state Frequently Asked Questions For COVID-19 related information for the Stanford community from prevention strategies to university operations to finding help: See all FAQs related to COVID-19 Most viewed topics Vaccination Testing Prevention Policies Travel Help & support Research continuity Working remotely Other Resources Learn Anywhere Information and technology resources for students to set up internet access at home and attend classes online. Learn more about attending classes remotely Teach Anywhere This guide provides you suggested actions to take quickly when making the shift from teaching in a classroom to teaching anywhere. Visit the Teach Anywhere website Research Continuity Guidance and information on research continuity, sponsor agency, funding opportunities and COVID-19 research at Stanford. Learn about research continuity Work Anywhere Technology resources, services, and equipment to enable the success of Stanford’s distributed workforce — no matter where your “office” may be. Visit the Work Anywhere website Stanford COVID-19 research & crisis response The worldwide COVID-19 pandemic poses a humanitarian crisis unprecedented in its scale of complexity, calling for coordination and collaboration between many fields of study. Learn about Stanford’s response plan to unite COVID research Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.