UT University Health Services https://wwww.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ APPOINTMENTS MyUHS SERVICES ABOUT UHS LOCATION CONTACT Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment Coronavirus updates COVID Positive: What To do Medical emergencies and what to do when UHS is closed Nurse Advice Line Charges and Insurance Immunizations and medical clearance requirements Medical and immunization record requests Search a health topic Meet the staff Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Affordable UT Student Health Insurance Plan Your feedback Incoming students International students LGBTQIA+ inclusive healthcare Longhorn Wellness Center Emergency HIV risk reduction Pharmacy Resources Sexual Assault Forensic Exams Volunteering FOLLOW US (512) 471-4955 Email UHS LOCATION 100 West Dean Keaton Student Services Building (SSB) https://www.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Appointments MyUHS Services About UHS Location Contact UHS Top UHS COVID-19 Information Home Protect Texas Together Symptomatic Testing Asymptomatic Testing Exposure Action Chart Vaccines and Boosters Self-Report a Positive Test Guidance for Ending Self-isolation Travel Symptoms, Transmission, and Prevention Symptoms The Center for Disease Control (CDC) believes at this time that symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure. Symptoms may be flu-like, ranging from mild to serious, and include: Cough Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing Fever Chills Repeated shaking with chills Muscle pain Headache Sore throat New loss of taste or smell This list is not all inclusive. Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you. Transmission COVID-19 spreads primarily from person to person through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person sneezes or coughs. The droplets can infect people who are closer than about six feet to the infected person if the droplets land in their mouths or noses or are inhaled into their lungs. It may also be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads. People are thought to be most contagious when they are most symptomatic (the sickest). However, transmission is possible when an infected person has mild or no symptoms. COVID-19 Vaccine and Testing Visit the Protect Texas Together page for information on testing and vaccines. Personal Preventive Behaviors Here are everyday actions to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and respiratory viruses in general (e.g., colds and flu). Get tested, vaccinated and boosted. Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use alcohol-based hand sanitizer. If not fully vaccinated, keep six feet of distance between yourself and others whenever possible. Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands. Wear a recommended protective face mask when you will be around other people. Do not share food, beverages or smoking devices with others. Avoid close contact with sick people. Avoid shaking hands— wave or “hook ‘em” instead. Stay home when sick and avoid leaving home even if you are well except when necessary. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces often. Cough or sneeze into your elbow or sleeve or cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue. Throw the tissue directly into the trash. If you experience symptoms of respiratory illness, call the UHS Nurse Advice Line at 512-475-6877. UHS COVID-19 Information Home Protect Texas Together Symptomatic Testing Asymptomatic Testing Exposure Action Chart Vaccines and Boosters Self-Report a Positive Test Guidance for Ending Self-isolation Travel INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement STI Testing Sexual assault forensic exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and Immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations or gender identities/expression. SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations, or gender identities/expression. INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement Get yourself tested Sexual assault exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff Home l ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin l UT Emergency Information l Accessibility l Privacy l Finding Credible Health Information Online l Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination l Staff Intranet