Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Support Groups Support Groups Expand all Collapse all Autism Support Group: In Our Own Languages, Thursdays @ 4:00 PM ET This is a supportive community space open to both undergraduate and graduate students who are on the autism spectrum. We will meet once a week via Zoom to connect and converse with others on selected topics of mutual interest. Due to the open and online nature of this virtual drop-in space, this is not private or confidential though participants are encouraged to be respectful and practice discretion. This is intended to be an interactive support space, not group therapy. Facilitated by Motoni Fong Hodges, Ph.D. Dates and Time: This Autism Support Group will meet weekly on Thursdays from 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM ET starting June 9th, 2022. For more information, please email Dr. Motoni Fong Hodges at [email protected] with "Autism Support Group" in the subject line. On Being Stuck, Thursdays @ 3:30 PM ET Do you feel stuck in your present situation, whether procrastinating, waiting for the next flight after your reservations were cancelled, waiting for a visa or job offer, not knowing which direction your career will take? When we get “stuck” we often feel frustrated, sometimes helpless, we can act impulsively or make things worse by not taking pause. These pauses, however, can be an opportunity for reflection and growth. Join us for this Virtual group and we will address how to make the best of being stuck by connecting with others and problem solving together. We will learn new tools and practice relaxation exercises and cognitive behavior strategies. Due to the open and online nature of these meetings, our support space is not guaranteed to be private or confidential though participants are encouraged to be respectful and mindful of each other and to practice discretion. In addition, please note that this is an educational and support space; it is not group therapy. The facilitator respectfully requests that all participants have video enabled during the meetings. Facilitated by Victoria Grosso, Ph.D. Dates and Time: Thursdays 3:30 PM to 4:45 PM ET on July 14, July 21, July 28, August 4, 2022. For more information, contact Dr. Victoria Grosso at [email protected] with "Stuck" in the subject line. Queer Academics at Columbia (QuAC), Thursdays @ 5:00 PM ET Facilitated by Motoni Fong Hodges, Ph.D., Daniel Chiarilli, Ph.D. QuAC is a friendly, supportive space for LGBTQ students from all of Columbia's graduate and professional schools, as well as the School of General Studies. Come meet students from other programs, learn about resources at Columbia and identify and discuss and issues relevant to our communities. Due to the open and online nature of this support space, this support space is not guaranteed to be private or confidential though participants are encouraged to be respectful and mindful of each other and to practice discretion. In addition, please note that this is an educational and support space; it is not group therapy. The facilitators respectfully request that all participants have video enabled during the meetings. Dates and Time: This virtual space will meet every 3rd Thursday of each month from 5:00 PM – 6:00 PM ET. For more information, contact Motoni Fong Hodges at [email protected], Daniel Chiarilli at [email protected] with "QuAC" in the subject line. QT Talks: A Virtual Support Space for Queer & Trans Students, Tuesdays @ 6:00 PM ET Biweekly support space that centers current issues and topics related to queer and trans students at Columbia University. If you are interested in joining this space, please fill out the interest form (available by request). Facilitated by Kori Bennett, Psy.D. and Vanessa Gonzalez-Siegel, M.A. This is an online support space for queer and trans (transgender and/or nonbinary) graduate and undergraduate students centering on specific current issues and topics related to queer and trans communities. Due to the open and online nature of this drop-in space, this group is not private or confidential. Participants are encouraged to be respectful and mindful of each other and to practice discretion. Please note that this is a support space and not group therapy. Dates and Time: This virtual support space will meet weekly on Tuesdays from 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM ET. Start date TBA. For more information or to receive the interest form for the space, please contact Dr. Kori Bennett at [email protected] with "QT Talks" in the subject line. Support for Students Affected by the War in Ukraine, Wednesdays @ 6:00 PM ET Facilitated by Victoria Grosso Ph.D. and David Hittson Ph.D. This is a virtual support space for students with friends or family living in Ukraine to come together to discuss the war and ways to manage the resulting personal, emotional, and functional impacts it is having on daily life. Due to the open and online nature of this drop-in group, this group is not private or confidential though participants are encouraged to be respectful and mindful of each other and to practice discretion. In addition, please note that this is a virtual support space and not group therapy. Dates and Time: Starting March 9, 2022, this virtual support space will be held on Wednesdays from 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM ET. To join the space, please register on Zoom. After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the meeting. Support Space for Latinx Students, Fridays @ 2:00 PM ET (2nd Friday of the month) This is a support group for Latinx students to speak openly, check-in with each other, and share their experiences of how they navigate events in their communities, at Columbia, and the world. We aim to provide a safe space to share without judgment and bias. Participants will learn coping strategies, feel a sense of community and improve self-care in the service of their academic success. Due to the open and online nature of this support space, this workshop is not private or confidential though participants are encouraged to be respectful and mindful of each other and to practice discretion. In addition, please note that this is an energy refueling, skill building support space; it is not group therapy. Facilitated by Eduvigis Cruz-Arrieta, Ph.D. Dates and Time: Second Friday of the month: February 11, March 11, April 8, May 13, 2022 at 2:00 PM ET. To save your space, please email Dr. Eduvigis Cruz-Arrieta at [email protected] with "Latinx" in the subject line. If you don’t find something that meets your needs, please check back. We will add to our virtual offerings in the days to come. You may also email Anne Goldfield, Associate Director of CPS for Community Outreach, with your suggestions at [email protected] Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Clinical Specialty Counseling Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close