Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search Stanford COVID dashboards This page provides various daily and weekly updates about COVID surveillance testing, Health Check submissions, isolation, and prevalence in the Stanford community. We provide recent and historic metrics for both students and employees since the onset of COVID with comparative measures to the surrounding area. Summary as of Monday, May 23, 2022 Isolation: As of today, there are 218 students isolating, most of whom are in Stanford student housing. At this time last week, the comparable number was 208. Student testing: Positive test results for students during the week of May 16th-May 22nd totaled 169, compared to 167 for the prior week of May 9th-May 15th.The results include both Color tests and rapid antigen tests. Faculty, staff and postdoc testing: Among this population, 230 total positive test results were reported for the week of May 16th-May 22nd; 94 from Color testing and 136 from either outside providers or individuals’ own rapid antigen testing at home. This compares to 189 for the prior week of May 9th-May 15th. Vaccination: We have at least 95% of all Health Check users having attested to being fully vaccinated This dashboard is updated weekly. Positivity rates in the displays below reflect Stanford’s surveillance testing program provided by Color, not rapid antigen tests or any other testing. The following illustrations provide additional details, pre- and post-initiation of surveillance testing. Stanford continues to offer free asymptomatic testing for the campus community, as described in this recent update. Weekly COVID testing is required for students that are not fully vaccinated and boosted (if eligible); details of the testing program are here. For faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars who are vaccinated, asymptomatic testing is optional effective March 1, 2022; program details are here. We also continue to strongly recommend testing whenever you are experiencing symptoms, concerned about possible exposure or returning to campus from travel. Participants can expect to receive test results within 24-72 hours. While face coverings are no longer required in many settings, we strongly recommend wearing masking on-site, regardless of vaccination status. Face coverings continue to be required in classrooms, although individuals may remove them while speaking. California state protocols continue to require face coverings in healthcare settings. Students Beginning Aug. 31, 2020, the display below includes the results of Stanford’s on-campus COVID screening program for graduate and undergraduate students, administered by Verily. Details of this program are available here. In addition, across all time periods, the data below reflect the results of student tests for COVID undertaken or facilitated by Vaden Health Center, as well as the results of student-athlete surveillance testing for COVID. Skip to metric definitions Stanford student metric definitions Vaccinated metrics reflect the number of partially and fully COVID vaccinated individuals. This category will be updated monthly and sourced from Health Check user data based on the vaccination question only. Some users may be submitting while working remotely while others prior to coming onsite. Partially vaccinated are those having received only one dose of a two series. Typically, there is a 3-4 week waiting period to receive the second dose. Individuals are considered fully vaccinated two weeks after receiving a single-dose vaccine or two weeks after the second dose in a two-dose series. This guidance applies to COVID-19 vaccines recommended by the CDC and currently authorized for emergency use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration: Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson and Johnson (J&J)/Janssen COVID-19 vaccines. This also applies to COVID vaccines that have been authorized for emergency use by the World Health Organization (e.g. AstraZeneca/Oxford, etc). Total Health Check surveys reflects self-reports of daily surveillance status using the university’s Health Check app since May, 2020. This includes reporting of symptoms, temperature monitoring, exposures, and recent travel history. Total confirmed positive cases reflects a cumulative measure of the number of Stanford students living on, or near campus and enrolled or affiliated when they were diagnosed with COVID. This dates back to March, 2020 and reflects test results from any testing provider, not just testing provided by the university as shown in the graphical display above. Current cases in isolation on campus reflects the number of students currently in isolation on the Stanford campus following a positive COVID test result. Faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars Beginning Aug. 26, 2020, the display below shows the results of Stanford’s on-campus COVID surveillance testing program for faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars, administered by Color. Details on this program are available here. In addition, across all time periods, this display includes the results of testing of faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars provided or facilitated by the Stanford University Occupational Health Center. The data do not include testing performed by other providers. Skip to metric definitions Stanford staff metric definitions Vaccinated metrics reflect the number of partially and fully COVID vaccinated individuals. This category will be updated monthly and sourced from Health Check user data based on the vaccination question only. Some users may be submitting while working remotely while others prior to coming onsite. Partially vaccinated are those having received only one dose of a two series. Typically, there is a 3-4 week waiting period to receive the second dose. Individuals are considered fully vaccinated two weeks after receiving a single-dose vaccine or two weeks after the second dose in a two-dose series. This guidance applies to COVID-19 vaccines recommended by the CDC and currently authorized for emergency use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration: Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson and Johnson (J&J)/Janssen COVID-19 vaccines. This also applies to COVID vaccines that have been authorized for emergency use by the World Health Organization (e.g. AstraZeneca/Oxford, etc). Total Health Check surveys reflects self-reports of daily surveillance status using the university’s Health Check app since May, 2020. This includes reporting of symptoms, temperature monitoring, exposures, and recent travel history. Total confirmed positive cases refers to positive cases among Stanford faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars that were made known to Stanford through self-reporting into Health Check, hospital notification, or other reporting means, and verified by our clinicians, dating back to March, 2020. This reflects test results from any testing provider, not just testing provided by the university as shown in the graphic display above. These individuals may or may not have been working recently on campus; many university employees have been working remotely since March 2020. Please note that this count includes School of Medicine personnel including those working in patient-facing clinical settings. Notes on data displays above For the displays of Stanford testing results shown above, please note: Test results are logged based on the date a testing sample is taken or collected. Data on Stanford’s surveillance testing program are updated weekly to ensure validation of results. However, if there is a significant outbreak of COVID at Stanford, the university community will be informed on an expedited basis. Individuals may be tested multiple times. “Cumulative tests” reflects the total number of tests performed, not the number of individuals tested. The graphic displays of surveillance testing results only reflect results from the testing sources listed and do not include data from other testing providers. At the start of the pandemic through early September 2020, Stanford reported on its website a cumulative number of COVID-19 cases the university was aware of among faculty, staff, students and postdoctoral scholars, living in any location and receiving a test result through any provider. This count totaled 137 as of early September. As of Sept. 14, the university has shifted to the above data reporting, which displays results of the surveillance testing now being provided on-site to students and employees by the university, along with separate cumulative numbers of COVID-positive cases the university has learned of. These cumulative numbers only include students living on or near the Stanford campus at the time of their positive test result. For more information about the data displays above, see the Frequently asked questions on Stanford COVID dashboards. In the event of a positive test Those who test positive through surveillance testing should self-isolate and refrain from leaving their isolation housing if living on campus or coming to campus if living off campus. Those living on campus in R&DE-assigned housing will receive isolation support and accommodations, including meal delivery at no cost to students. If you receive a positive test result, you will be asked to immediately complete Health Check to update your test status. Vaden Health Services (for students) or the university’s Occupational Health Center will reach out to you about receiving a confirmatory test and will initiate exposure notification for close contacts as defined here. In the meantime, you must remain self-isolated based on the positive results of the first test. Expect an additional call or follow-up by the local county public health department for contact tracing efforts. If you are experiencing severe symptoms, including difficulty breathing, contact your healthcare provider immediately. Alternate data formats Stanford University is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to everyone, including individuals with disabilities. If you cannot access the content on this page, please contact covid-dashboard@lists.stanford.edu to obtain the data in alternate formats. On this page Student dashboard Stanford student metric definitions Faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholar dashboard Stanford staff metric definitions Notes on data displays In the event of a positive test Alternate data formats See also Stanford COVID dashboards Frequently asked questions on Stanford COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Testing programs For students For faculty, staff and postdocs Virology lab statistics Potential Exposure Building List Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.