Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search For Faculty & Instructors On this page, you will find information and resources for faculty and instructors (including TAs) at Stanford. For additional information for Stanford employees in general and information specific to researchers and postdocs, please go to their respective pages. Current status As of May 27 With certain exceptions, face coverings are no longer required but continue to be strongly recommended on-site, regardless of vaccination status. Face coverings are required in classrooms pending further assessment; however, individuals may remove face coverings while speaking. We encourage everyone to respect the choices that individuals make about their own masking. Stanford-run programs and activities involving minors may operate on campus with the approval of the Dean or VP or their designee, subject to the COVID-19-related requirements and Protection of Minors policy requirements for In-person programs and activities involving minors. Such programs and activities will be open only to vaccinated minors ages 12 and up. Only on-campus Stanford-run programs are permitted; no off-campus or third-party programs are currently being approved. Travel. The university made important updates to its domestic and international travel policy effective March 28, 2022. While these changes are intended to help campus units plan for future activities, Stanford recommends that unvaccinated non-U.S. citizens do not travel outside of the United States given the uncertainty around entry requirements. Current requirements and updates effective March 28 are available here. Face coverings. With certain exceptions, face coverings are no longer required but continue to be strongly recommended on-site, regardless of vaccination status. Face coverings are required in classrooms through the beginning of spring quarter; however, individuals may remove face coverings while speaking. We encourage everyone to respect the choices that individuals make about their own masking. Health Check to self-report health status is required for employees and postdocs working in-person at a Stanford facility. Daily Health Check submissions are not required for faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars coming to campus who are fully vaccinated for COVID-19 (documentation uploaded on Health Check) or fully vaccinated students on campus (documentation on the Vaden Health Portal) unless they become symptomatic, have a positive COVID test or are exposed to household members who have tested positive. Training on COVID hygiene is required before returning to work at a campus location for the first time. Weekly asymptomatic surveillance testing for vaccinated faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars and for fully vaccinated and boosted students (undergraduates, graduate students and students enrolled in professional degree programs) has been suspended, effective March 1, 2022. Twice-weekly testing continues to be required for faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars who are not fully vaccinated, and for students who are not fully vaccinated and boosted. Color testing continues to be available, up to two tests per week, for anyone who wishes to continue to use Color for regular asymptomatic testing. Testing is strongly recommended whenever you are experiencing symptoms, concerned about possible exposure or returning to campus from travel. Dashboards provide aggregated results for the Stanford community. See the Testing page for more information. Research and some other essential in-person campus activities are operating on-site. Guidance for researchers is available. Undergraduate researchers who are enrolled in summer quarter and live in the local area may be approved to work in campus labs following an application/approval process outlined on the research recovery site. Otherwise, all researchers (faculty, graduate students, postdoctoral scholars, and research staff) in laboratories and offices may return to campus, without any requirement that their work can only be done on campus. See this page for the latest requirements for returning to work on Stanford campuses. To support in-person summer programming, new guidance and requirements are now available to ensure COVID-19 safety protocols are met. Appointments of visiting scholars are restricted. An overview of all current policies and status regarding COVID-19 is available here. Relevant policy information Related announcements Related FAQs for… Faculty Instructors & TAs Covid-19 Workplace Guide Academic Staff-Teaching dependent care policy Frequently asked questions for… Faculty Information about the impact of COVID-19 on research, travel, remote teaching, and other topics. ResearchPay continuationWorking remotelyTravelHelp & support See all FAQs for faculty Instructors & TAs Information about working remotely, funding, and other topics of interest to teaching staff and TAs. Working remotelyFunding & grantsHelp & support See all FAQs for instructors & TAs Thanks and acknowledgements to UC Berkeley, University of Washington and Yale for their excellent FAQs. If you have additional questions, please send them to research_ops@lists.stanford.edu. Answers to FAQs will be updated by the Research Operations Continuity team as needed. See FAQs for Faculty Instructors & TAs On this page Relevant policy information Testing, prevention & care What should I do if I'm feeling ill? Where can I get tested? How do I get vaccinated? Personal care & prevention Campus hygiene Social distancing protocol Report test results/symptoms Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Teach anywhere Learn about teaching online Research continuity Learn about resources for COVID-19 research continuity Work anywhere Learn about resources for telecommuting and remote work Virtual training for employees Managing teams during uncertainty Navigating self through uncertainty Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.