Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Public Health and Human Sciences » Academics » Human Development and Family Sciences Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Undergrad Program General option Child Development option Human Services option HDFS Minor Doctoral Degree Program Doctoral Degree Program Faculty Application Funding for graduate study Courses HDFS Research Professional opportunities HDFS Ph.D. student directory Experiencing the HDFS Doctoral Program Contact the HDFS Doctoral Degree Program HDFS Faculty directory Undergrad Program General option Child Development option Human Services option HDFS Minor Doctoral Degree Program Doctoral Degree Program Faculty Application Funding for graduate study Courses HDFS Research Professional opportunities HDFS Ph.D. student directory Experiencing the HDFS Doctoral Program Contact the HDFS Doctoral Degree Program HDFS Faculty directory Human Development and Family Sciences Undergraduate Program Human Development and Family Sciences Undergraduate Program Make a difference in the lifelong health of people and families. Corvallis Ecampus Bend Plan a visit How to apply Examine human nature Help a child develop the social and emotional skills to thrive. Provide comfort and care to an aging adult. Help a family work through trauma. In Oregon State’s nationally ranked human development and family sciences program, you’ll address human development across all ages and learn how to help improve the human condition. Study human development to be part of a rewarding career that empowers individuals, families and communities to survive and thrive. Request info Loading... Sample human services and child development courses Children and youth with disabilities Families and poverty Family, school and community collaboration Family policy Fostering learning in early childhood development Explore required courses. As an HDFS major at Oregon State, you’ll... Study how lives and relationships develop within families, school, work and society. Learn about different stages of development, from childhood to adulthood. Be equipped to understand and promote equity, inclusion and diversity. #1 HDFS program in Oregon -College Factual Human development and family sciences major options Select an option that matches your interests and career goals, whether it’s working with children, the elderly or providing services for families and communities. Child development Early childhood (OSU-Cascades campus only) General option (also available 100% online through Ecampus) Human services Human development and family sciences internships Human services and child development internships help prepare you for a full-time position upon graduation. Examples of internship types: Food bank Child development center Homeless shelter Hospital or clinic Long term care facility Nonprofit health organization Women's shelter Learn more Jennifer Macias Morris, ’11 To work in early childhood education, you first need to understand early childhood. Jennifer Macias Morris graduated with a degree in human development and family sciences and was recently recognized as one of America’s 20 most inspiring educators. Read more From HDFS to medical school Earn a bachelor’s degree in human development and family sciences while setting yourself up for success for medical school. Explore pre-med options Career options in the human services field With an HDFS degree, you can make a real impact in the lives of youth and their families. Many of our students come with an interest in psychology, and some enter education, human services or pediatrics after graduation. According to College Factual, human development, family sciences and human services careers are expected to grow 10% between 2016-2026 Study human development and family sciences for careers in: *These roles may require post-baccalaureate/graduate/professional education to qualify. Adoption agency counselor Activity director Assisted living manager Caseworker Childcare coordinator Crisis intervention worker Early childhood policy advocate Extension educator Elementary teacher* Emergency relief worker Family support worker Foster care caseworker Health communication specialist Hospice worker Housing service coordinator International relief worker Mental health counselor* Parent educator Psychologist Preschool or childcare teacher Senior advocate Social caseworker Social worker* Volunteer coordinator Youth development specialist Nyssa Cronin, ’20 “I chose to major in human development and family sciences because of my interest in understanding why people do the things they do, how people navigate different relationships within their life, and how or why communities struggle or thrive.” We're here to help Email Chad, our college guide, for questions about the application process and requirements. If you have questions regarding classes, student clubs or campus, our peer advisors would love to chat. Call or email them for advice. How to transfer Change your major Minors and certificates Join a student club Talk to our campus guide 541-737-7205 General option Child Development option Human Services option HDFS Minor ‹ Human Development and Family Sciences up General option › Contact Info College of Public Health and Human Sciences 160 SW 26th St, Corvallis OR 97331 Land Acknowledgement ©2022 Oregon State University Contact 541.737.3220 Website Issue? Privacy Disclaimer and Accessibility Information Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram