UT University Health Services https://wwww.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ APPOINTMENTS MyUHS SERVICES ABOUT UHS LOCATION CONTACT Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment Coronavirus updates COVID Positive: What To do Medical emergencies and what to do when UHS is closed Nurse Advice Line Charges and Insurance Immunizations and medical clearance requirements Medical and immunization record requests Search a health topic Meet the staff Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Affordable UT Student Health Insurance Plan Your feedback Incoming students International students LGBTQIA+ inclusive healthcare Longhorn Wellness Center Emergency HIV risk reduction Pharmacy Resources Sexual Assault Forensic Exams Volunteering FOLLOW US (512) 471-4955 Email UHS LOCATION 100 West Dean Keaton Student Services Building (SSB) https://www.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Appointments MyUHS Services About UHS Location Contact UHS Longhorn Wellness Center Workshops All workshops are free and provided by Longhorn Wellness Center, University Health Services or Counseling and Mental Health Center staff or student peer educators. These workshops are offered in person or virtually depending on your group's need and staff availability. Please note that most workshops need two weeks' notice to schedule. For questions or other requests, reach out to longhornwellnesscenter@austin.utexas.edu. Workshop requests are currently closed, and will resume in August. Overview of Services Overview of Services Provided by the Counseling and Mental Health Center: This presentation familiarizes participants with CMHC services and resources. This is a 20 minute presentation. Overview of services provided by University Health Services: This presentation familiarizes participants with UHS services and resources. This is a 20 minute presentation. Overview of services provided by University Health Services and the Counseling and Mental Health Center: This presentation familiarizes participants with CMHC and UHS services and resources. This is a 30 minute presentation. Request a Workshop Be That One. – Mental Health Promotion & Suicide Prevention Come Up for Air: Practice Self-Care Deep breaths. Stress has become such a part of our daily lives that most of us don't even realize we're stressed until we feel overwhelmed. In this interactive workshop, participants will learn how to manage everyday stress through self-care and relaxation techniques. Suicide Prevention Program Workshop This workshop gives participants the tools to support someone who may be thinking about suicide, the second leading cause of death for college students. Research shows that participants who take this workshop feel less stressed and better prepared to intervene with their students and friends when they're in distress. This is a one hour workshop and is available to student, staff, and faculty audiences. Helping Students in Distress (for faculty and staff only) Stress is a part of every student's life. However, at times, a student's stress level may become cause for concern. Learn to recognize the warning signs and strategies for helping a student in distress. This is a one-hour presentation. Request a Workshop BeVocal – Bystander Intervention Initiative Have you have ever seen a situation unfold that you wish someone would stop? BeVocal offers interactive tailored workshops applicable across a variety of issues to empower UT Austin faculty, staff, and student organizations in bystander intervention. Workshops will only be available via Zoom until Fall 2022. Request a Workshop Longhorn Wellness Peer Educators (for undergraduates only) All workshops are between (45-50 minutes). Bouncing Back: Coping with Failure and Rejection We all fail sometimes – and we’re here to tell you – that’s OKAY and even helpful! This workshop normalizes the experience of failure and rejection. Through the lens of the growth vs. fixed mindset, we discuss resilience and provide concrete coping strategies when facing failure in the future (Pro-tip: you will). Come Up for Air: Practice Self-Care Deep breaths. Stress has become such a part of our daily lives that most of us don't even realize we're stressed until we feel overwhelmed. In this interactive workshop, participants will learn how to manage everyday stress through self-care and relaxation techniques. Sex Talk 101 Let’s talk! In this interactive workshop, learn about introductory sexual health topics such as reproductive anatomy, pregnancy, STIs and contraception. Learn how to put a condom on correctly, team up during the Anatomy Race, and answer trivia questions! Real Talk: Helping Friends in Distress This highly interactive workshop explores how students can support their friends who are going through a hard time. Participants will learn how to start a conversation with someone they’re concerned about, ways to validate their experience, and resources they can offer for extra support. What Would You Do? Tools for Taking Care of Your Fellow Longhorns "What Would You Do?" is a fun workshop that allows students to assess their current behavior as bystanders in common college situations. Using the principles of the BeVocal bystander intervention model, students will have the opportunity to think through how they would navigate different and often challenging scenarios to successfully take care of their fellow Longhorns. Request a Workshop mindful UT Workshops Mindfulness 101 (30, 60 or 90 minutes) What is mindfulness? Where did it originate? Does it actually work? These are some common questions that will be addressed in this interactive workshop. Participants will learn about the history, science and benefits of mindfulness and have some opportunity to practice mindfulness. Mindful Self & Community Care (30 or 60 minutes) There’s a lot of talk about self-care, but what about community care? Turns out it’s just as important, if not more. In this interactive workshop, participants will learn about the importance of community care, self-care and how they intersect while having opportunities to practice mindfulness with a focus on community. Strategies for Stress Management (30 or 60 minutes) Stress happens. Some can be helpful. A lot can have damaging effects on our physical and emotional well-being. In this interactive workshop, participants will learn how stress impacts us, benefits of stress management strategies, and have opportunities to experience mindfulness-based stress management practices. Building Daily Habits of Awareness (30 or 60 minutes) The best way to be more aware of ourselves and our surroundings is to practice every day, even just for a few minutes. In this interactive workshop, participants will learn the importance of habits, think about how to integrate mindfulness-based habits into our already existing routine, and have opportunities to experience mindfulness practices. Let’s Practice Mindfulness (15, 30 or 60 minutes) Need some relief from stress? Constantly distracted by technology? Struggling to stay present? Let’s practice some mindfulness. In this interactive workshop, participants will experience different types of mindfulness-based practices. That’s it. We’ll just practice mindfulness together. BeMindful: Mindfulness in Bystander Intervention (60 or 90 minutes) A collaboration between BeVocal and mindful UT that focuses on being more present with discomfort in order to take action to create inclusive community care. In this interactive workshop, participants will learn about strategies for bystander intervention, the difference between comfort and safety, how mindfulness practices can assist us in harm recognition and helping us decide how to act in the moment. Request a Workshop SHIFTing the Campus Culture Workshops The Longhorn Wellness Center partners with SHIFT to offer learning and engagement opportunities around substance use on campus Substance Use 101 (60-90 minutes): This two-part series includes a 30-minute online module followed by a facilitator-led workshop on substance use concepts including 1) the spectrum of use, 2) difference between perceived use and actual use on campus, 3) the brain science behind alcohol, cannabis, prescription drugs (e.g., opioids and stimulants), and psychedelics, 4) polysubstance use (mixing multiple substances at the same time), and 5) protective strategies and bystander intervention. SHIFT Your Culture (60 minutes): This interactive workshop engages students in discussions and activities to identify their organization's shared values, examine definitions of culture and barriers to cultural change, and develop a group action plan to enhance student well-being on and off campus. Request a Workshop INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement STI Testing Sexual assault forensic exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and Immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations or gender identities/expression. SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations, or gender identities/expression. INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement Get yourself tested Sexual assault exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff Home l ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin l UT Emergency Information l Accessibility l Privacy l Finding Credible Health Information Online l Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination l Staff Intranet