Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search COVID-19 Potential Exposure Building List The table below contains the list of buildings where an individual visited within the last two weeks who either had: Tested positive for or had been diagnosed with COVID-19, or Been ordered to isolate by a public health official due to COVID-19 This table is automatically updated nightly, so updates are not real-time or immediately refreshed. The table is being provided as a transparency measure, it reflects the email notifications that are already being provided to individual building occupants on a building-by-building basis. We encourage you to keep in mind several things about this table: Being in a building where a COVID-positive person has been present does not mean you have been exposed. Individuals identified as high-risk close contacts are separately notified and given guidance (see below “High-risk close contacts”). All others should follow instructions for all other building occupants. One person can visit many buildings in the course of a day. If 10 buildings are listed for a given date, this does not mean that 10 different COVID-positive individuals were on campus on that date. For the latest case numbers in our university community, please see the COVID-19 Dashboards here. Stanford University has a high rate of vaccination in our community. Vaccination against COVID-19 is one of the most effective ways to prevent severe illness and hospitalization, as well as keep community spread low. For more information on the university’s vaccination policy, click here. High-risk close contacts: With each COVID-19 positive case, our Medical Team initiates our contact tracing process, and any high-risk close contacts to this individual are directly notified of their exposure and advised accordingly. If you do not receive such a notification, you are not known to be a high-risk close contact. Instructions for all other building occupants: If you were in a building where a positive case entered, it doesn’t necessarily mean you were exposed; regardless, you should follow the instructions below. No need to quarantine: You are NOT REQUIRED to stay at home and quarantine. Health Check: DO NOT indicate in Health Check that you are a high-risk close contact (unless you were directly contacted and informed of such status). Before coming onto campus each day, verify whether or not you feel well. At any point, if you notice COVID-like symptoms, such as fever, cough, running/stuffy nose, or shortness of breath: Stay home Report your symptoms through Health Check. Contact your primary health care provider. Wear your face covering on campus as directed. Follow other prevention measures regardless of vaccination status, as these measures significantly reduce the risk of acquiring and spreading COVID-19. On this page High-risk Close Contacts Instructions for Building Occupants Potential Exposure List See also Stanford COVID dashboards Frequently asked questions on Stanford COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Testing programs For students For faculty, staff and postdocs Virology lab statistics Potential Exposure Building List Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.