UT University Health Services https://wwww.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ APPOINTMENTS MyUHS SERVICES ABOUT UHS LOCATION CONTACT Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment Coronavirus updates COVID Positive: What To do Medical emergencies and what to do when UHS is closed Nurse Advice Line Charges and Insurance Immunizations and medical clearance requirements Medical and immunization record requests Search a health topic Meet the staff Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Affordable UT Student Health Insurance Plan Your feedback Incoming students International students LGBTQIA+ inclusive healthcare Longhorn Wellness Center Emergency HIV risk reduction Pharmacy Resources Sexual Assault Forensic Exams Volunteering FOLLOW US (512) 471-4955 Email UHS LOCATION 100 West Dean Keaton Student Services Building (SSB) https://www.healthyhorns.utexas.edu/ Appointments MyUHS Services About UHS Location Contact UHS Longhorn Wellness Center Information: (512) 475-8252 longhornwellnesscenter@austin.utexas.edu Katy Redd, MPH, MSW Associate Director for Prevention, Development and Media Relations kredd@austin.utexas.edu Katy (she/her/hers) oversees prevention programming, development, and media relations for the Counseling and Mental Health Center and University Health Services. She oversees innovative public health programming and forges partnerships to support the well-being of today’s college students. She also oversees development efforts for both organizations as well as media relations, ensuring that CMHC and UHS’s services are appropriate and effectively communicated to the UT community. Katy’s professional interests include health communication, public health methods to improve mental health, and health equity. In her free time, Katy enjoys backpacking, adventure traveling, crafting, and watching her young children experience the world. Brittany O’Malley, MPH, CHES Assistant Director for Prevention bomalley@austin.utexas.edu Brittany (she/her/hers) completed her undergraduate degree at Beloit College in Wisconsin and went on to earn a Master of Public Health degree from The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In her role as with the LWC, she supports and oversees many of the programs and staff in LWC, helps guide strategic planning and communication for the office, and lends her public health eye as needed. In addition to her role as Assistant Director in the Healthyhorns portfolio, she also serves as chair of UT Wellness Network. Outside of UT, Brittany enjoys cooking, spending time with her husband and kitties, and planning her next travel adventure. James Butler, M.Ed. Mindfulness Campus Coordinator james.butler@austin.utexas.edu James Butler (he/him/his) will be sharing mindfulness on campus through a healing and equity-centered lens with a focus on supporting students. James came to mindfulness to support his own mental health struggles and is excited to share the many benefits and ways that mindfulness can be practiced. He is passionate about mindfulness being accessible to all identities and will keep that in the forefront of his work as he works with student organizations, small groups of students, and faculty to bring mindfulness into class. He will collaborate with his colleagues in the Longhorn Wellness Center, as well as with the Integrated Health Program. James comes to UT after spending 18 years as an educator in the Austin Independent School District with the last 5 years as the district’s Mindfulness Specialist in the Social Emotional Learning department. He completed his undergraduate degree from Manchester University before going on to earn a Master of Education from Grand Canyon University. In his spare time, James loves cheering for Cleveland sports teams, playing basketball and baseball, being outdoors, practicing mindfulness to support his mental health, and listening to music. Justin Carter Suicide Prevention Programs Coordinator justin.carter@austin.utexas.edu Before coming to UT, Justin Carter (he/him/his) earned his bachelor’s in social work from The Ohio State University. During his time in Ohio, Justin became a rising leader in the field of men’s health and the men’s violence against women movement speaking at local, state, and national level conferences, podcasts, and rallies. Justin has worked with universities, non-profits, state and local agencies promoting social justice, inspiring inter-group collaboration, and cultivating welcoming climates. In his current role, Justin co-runs the Be That One Suicide Prevention Campaign and other Suicide Prevention programs for the University of Texas at Austin campus. Justin is a proud co-host for the #RESILIENCYSPEAKS podcast and serves as faculty, teaching a Wellness 101 Honors course within the College of Natural Sciences. While serving as a staff and faculty member of the university, Justin is also pursuing a Dual Masters in both Public Affairs and Public Health at The University of Texas at Austin Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs and the University of Texas at Houston Health Sciences Center. Finally, Justin currently serves as the Black Faculty and Staff Association’s Co-president and Co-chair for the Mental Health Promotion Committee with UT Wellness Network. In her spare time, Justin loves to read comics, write spoken word, follow college football and spend time with friends and family. Sarah Frey, MS, MPH, CHES Health Promotion Coordinator sfrey@austin.utexas.edu Sarah (she/her) supports a collegiate culture of well-being through a variety of health promotion programs and environmental change initiatives. In her role she provides oversight and guidance for high-risk drinking prevention and early intervention programs including BASICS [Brief Alcohol Screening Intervention for College Students]. Sarah earned an MPH in Community Health Education from UNC Greensboro, an MS in Exercise Physiology from the University of Pittsburgh and is a Certified Health Education Specialist through NCHEC. On a personal level, she has enjoyed teaching indoor cycle for the past 11 years and thrives on continually learning. Sahtiya Hosoda Hammell, M.Ed. Bystander Intervention Programs Coordinator sahtiya.hammell@austin.utexas.edu Sahtiya Hosoda Hammell (she/her/hers) completed her undergraduate degree at Princeton University before going on to earn her Master of Education in Educational Psychology from the University of Virginia, where her interests were community engagement, behavioral transformation and educational policy. She has spent her career in the education sector in Washington, DC, Maryland, Virginia and Hawaii and is excited to join the UT Austin community. As the Health Education Coordinator of BeVocal, Sahtiya seeks to educate faculty, students and staff about bystander intervention across a range of target issues. In her spare time, Sahtiya tries to stretch in new ways, whether in the kitchen, on a yoga mat or with a good book. Angelique Karditzas Health Promotion Coordinator angelique.karditzas@austin.utexas.edu Angelique Karditzas (she/her/hers) completed her undergraduate degree in Sociology at University of North Carolina Wilmington, before going on to earn her Master’s in Public Health and Health Promotion from Swansea University. Angelique oversees the Longhorn Wellness Peer Education Program, and focuses on sleep health and wellness initiatives. She is also a Certified Health Education Specialist through NCHEC, and has experience teaching yoga, meditation, and mindfulness. When she’s not at UT, you can find Angelique practicing yoga, paddle-boarding, and scoping out new hiking spots. Adrian Lancaster Student Peer Support Project Coordinator adrian.lancaster@austin.utexas.edu Adrian (he/him and they/them) earned a B.S. in Sociology from Illinois State University and an M.Ed. in Human Relations from Plymouth State University. Adrian’s role is to develop a mental health-focused Peer Support Program that will equip UT students with the knowledge and skills to support peers through the myriad challenges of their shared college experience. Adrian’s professional interests include program development, self-authorship and learning partnerships, equity and inclusion in higher ed, and the development of students’ self-efficacy beliefs. They enjoy acting, video games, trying new things, and hanging out with his cats, partner, and the Austin LGBTQA+ community. Alpha Shrestha Interpersonal Violence Prevention Coordinator alpha.shrestha@austin.texas.edu Alpha Shrestha (She/her) is the Interpersonal Violence Prevention Coordinator and oversees Voices Against Violence (VAV). After completing her bachelor's in Anthropology and Biology from the University of Texas at Austin, she worked as an educator. She earned her master’s in Public Health from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill before returning to UT Austin. She has worked with survivors of interpersonal violence throughout her professional life and is passionate about survivors-centered accessible healing services. In her spare time, she enjoys reflecting, meditating, and being outdoors. Kayleigh Spaulding Student Development Specialist for Health Communication kayleigh.spaulding@austin.utexas.edu Kayleigh (she/her/hers) earned a BSA in Nutritional Sciences with a minor in Health Communication from the University of Texas at Austin. Her role supports health messaging projects and programming and outreach for the Longhorn Wellness Center. Kayleigh is interested in using communication strategies and public health theories to promote healthy behaviors within the UT community. In her spare time, Kayleigh enjoys reading, trying new foods and getting outside. Thea Woodruff, Ph.D. Project Coordinator, Well-Being in Learning Environments thea.woodruff@austin.utexas.edu Thea (she/her/hers) coordinates the Well-Being in Learning Environments project, a project that works with faculty to imbed practices for improving student well-being in their classes. Thea also teaches courses as a lecturer in the College of Education at UT Austin. Areas of professional interest include research-based literacy practices in PK-12 settings, student motivation and identity, and effective instructional coaching practices. In her free time, Thea enjoys hanging out with her family, playing sports, and reading. Longhorn Wellness Center INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement STI Testing Sexual assault forensic exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and Immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations or gender identities/expression. SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US Monday - Friday, 8am to 5pm by appointment (512) 471-4955 Email UHS University Health Services is committed to providing high-quality care to patients of all ages, races, ethnicities, physical abilities or attributes, religions, sexual orientations, or gender identities/expression. INFORMATION Home Medical emergencies / After-Hours care Appointments Service extension fee Diversity statement Get yourself tested Sexual assault exams Tour UHS Eligibility to use UHS Medical withdrawal & course load reductions Medical and immunization record requests Patient rights and responsibilities Campus concealed carry Hours Parking Jobs Volunteering You Share, We Care LOCATION 100 West Dean Keeton Student Services Building (SSB) FOLLOW US SPECIFIC QUESTIONS? Incoming Students International Students Dell Medical Students LGBTQIA+ Inclusive Healthcare Parents Faculty and Staff Home l ©2022 The University of Texas at Austin l UT Emergency Information l Accessibility l Privacy l Finding Credible Health Information Online l Report violence, misconduct, harassment or discrimination l Staff Intranet