Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Academics ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Health Care Delivery Sciences Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Laureate Institute for Brain Research Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Our Academic Approach The Oxley College of Health Sciences is TU’s newest college, bringing together programs in the School of Nursing, Department of Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences, and Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders. Additionally, the college houses the Faculty of Community Medicine, Institute of Health Care Delivery Sciences, and the Schweitzer Fellowship. The college enjoys partnerships with the Laureate Institute of Brain Research (LIBR), the University of Oklahoma and St. John Medical Center. Curriculum and Unique Features Interdisciplinary study is key to the Oxley College of Health Sciences. Faculty collaborate with colleagues in other academic units within the college in research, classroom teaching and clinical opportunities. Each program in the college requires a significant amount of clinical experience. In health-related fields, learning the content in the classroom is not enough to make a good practitioner. Aspects of the clinical requirements for each of the programs make them distinct. Nursing students have five semesters of clinical rotations in a variety of local healthcare agencies, including the three major hospitals in Tulsa. RN to BSN students take a practicum in each of the program’s three semesters to allow application of advanced learning in real-life situations. Athletic Training students have block scheduling of courses which allows for clinical immersion opportunities in a wide variety of practice settings. Exercise and Sports Science students enroll in two required internships during the senior year with internship sites tailored to the career objectives of the student. Undergraduate Speech Pathology students have opportunities to observe speech-language therapy sessions and to have a clinical assignment during the senior year. Many undergraduate programs do not offer direct clinical opportunities. Graduate Speech Pathology students take three courses of graduate clinical practicum, which includes working with the cleft palate clinic, the cochlear implant support group and the aphasia support group. Additionally, there are offsite practicum assignments in both public school and hospital or rehabilitation settings. Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) students benefit from faculty-arranged clinical preceptors and scheduled clinical rotations. The clinical opportunities included in each of these degree plans prepare students for the work they will do in their careers upon graduation. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT