Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > Facilities Facilities https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ FACILITIES Athletic Training Facilities Exercise Science Facilities Nursing Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic The Oxley College of Health Sciences is housed at 1215 S. Boulder Avenue in downtown Tulsa. The building was constructed in 1954 for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Oklahoma and was later expanded in 1969. Kinslow, Keith and Todd redesigned the building for The University of Tulsa in the summer of 2015. Floors 1-5 underwent a complete remodel by Flintco in the fall of 2015, 52,000 square feet. The remodeled facilities allows expansion of TU’s health sciences programs from 310 to more than 600 students. To reserve a room in the Oxley Health Sciences Facility for an event that is not related to a TU academic program, i.e. regularly scheduled classes, click the link below to submit a room reservation request. Room Reservations SECOND FLOOR State-of-the-art classrooms, student study lounge, and faculty offices. THIRD FLOOR Nursing clinical skills lab, Lawson Family Nursing Simulation Center and Skills Laboratory, Biomechanics Research Laboratory and computer-testing facilities FOURTH FLOOR Biomechanics Laboratory, Athletic Training Teaching Laboratory, offices and state-of-the-art classrooms FIFTH FLOOR Faculty and staff offices Offices for the Oxley College of Health Sciences Deans Home of the Tulsa Chapter of the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship Communication Disorders The Mary K. Chapman Center for Communicative Disorders is a clinical learning facility of the Speech-Language Pathology program located on TU’s main campus and provides classrooms, observation and practicum facilities. The building contains three classrooms, a seminar room, 16 clinic rooms, eight observation rooms, a children’s group therapy room, a playroom, two large audiometric suites, a speech science and voice lab, an assistive technologies lab and faculty offices. The department has the latest equipment and instrumentation available for use in research, diagnostic and therapy activities, including the Kay Pentax Digital Swallowing Workstation with Videoendoscopy and Stroboscopy, Computerized Speech Lab, Nasometry and Visipitch. Mary K. Chapman Speech & Hearing Clinic Lawson Family Nursing Simulation Center and Skills Laboratory Lawson Family Nursing Simulation Center and Skills Laboratory helps to prepare TU students in the Oxley College of Health Sciences for clinical experiences that are a part of their academic programs. The laboratory and simulation center is outfitted with state-of-the-art equipment including hospital beds, vital statistics monitoring equipment, high-fidelity simulation mannequins, respiratory equipment, other equipment and supplies. Students use the laboratory and simulation center to practice skills they will use in the clinical setting and in their career. They also participate in scenarios using the high-fidelity human patient simulators relating to typical encounters they will likely see in the clinical rotations. Lawson Family Nursing Center and Skills Laboratory Biomechanics Research Laboratory The Biomechanics Research Laboratory is equipped to conduct wide-variety kinematic and kinetic analyses. The laboratory has four work stations, two of which are dedicated to videography and data reduction and statistical analysis. The work stations are equipped with software such as Statistical Package for the Social Science (SPSS) package, MyoMotion software package, Comprehensive Meta- Analysis, Bertec BalanceCheck Screener and Trainer, Kinovea, and LabView Signal Express. The Biomechanics Research Laboratory provides both undergraduate and graduate students with the opportunity to gain hands on experience using a range of biomechanical tools to analyze human motion. Biomechanics Research Laboratory KRS Human Performance Lab The Human Performance Laboratory is approximately 1,125 square feet with 15 student desks dedicated to undergraduate and graduate studies. The laboratory is used for research and teaching purposes within the Department of Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences. The Human Performance Laboratory is able to assess metabolic function, oxygen uptake, substrate utilization, pulmonary function, electromyography, electrocardiogram with an iworx research grade human exercise physiology kit. A CosMed K4b portable metabolic assessment is used for field based testing. KRS Human Performance Lab 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT