Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Health Alerts Search Health Alerts Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Search this site Submit Search Health information for the Stanford community This site provides important updates about infectious diseases, travel warnings and other public health issues, including the university’s operations and policies in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. See COVID-19 news & resources COVID-19 news & resources COVID dashboards Vaccine Updates See all COVID-19 FAQs Information for… Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Admins Staff Reminder of COVID presence and value of masking May 16, 2022 As fluctuating case numbers and circulating variants remind us, COVID has not gone away. As campus activities increase, masking, testing and other health protocols are crucial to our efforts to minimize COVID spread. Read more about Reminder of COVID presence and value of masking Wastewater-based COVID data April 27, 2022 Data used to monitor COVID prevalence, based on analysis of campus wastewater, is now available on Stanford’s COVID dashboards. Read more about Wastewater-based COVID data Update on masking guidelines April 21, 2022 In light of an increase in COVID cases, Stanford continues to strongly encourage face coverings indoors and in crowded outdoor spaces. Masking will continue to be required in classrooms and on Marguerite buses until further notice. Read more about Update on masking guidelines See all COVID-19 announcements Stanford Health Alerts Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19 or other health concerns, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. For feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.