Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search For Parents & Guardians We know you would like to do all you can to support your student, and we welcome your partnership. Stanford has activated an emergency operations organization focused on coordinating the university’s response. We are committed to on-going updates to the campus community. Recent messages from Stanford Reminder of COVID presence and value of maskingMay 16, 2022 Wastewater-based COVID dataApril 27, 2022 Update on masking guidelinesApril 21, 2022 See all messages from Stanford Frequently asked questions for… Parents & Guardians Find out more about what the University is doing to prevent the spread of COVID-19. See all FAQs for parents & guardians Undergraduate students Find information and resources for learning remotely, housing and dining, spring quarter, commencement, and other topics. Learning remotelyHousing & diningTuition Spring quarterGraduatingHelp & support See all FAQs for undergraduate students Graduate students Find information and resources for research, learning remotely, housing, spring quarter, and other topics of interest to grad students. ResearchLearning remotelySpring quarterHousing & diningHelp & support See all FAQs for graduate students If you have additional questions or concerns, including concerns about your student in particular, please email the Office of the Vice Provost for Student Affairs at vpstudentaffairs@stanford.edu. How to be added to our family email list We are sending periodic updates to each student’s family emergency email contact. Your student can update this information by following the Student Check-In instructions detailed here. On this page Recent messages from Stanford Frequently asked questions How to be added to our family email list Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.