Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Coronavirus Covid-19 Health Information Preventing the Spread of Covid-19 General Prevention Measures Get vaccinated Authorized Covid-19 vaccines can help protect you from Covid-19. Get tested regularly It is possible for people who are infected to infect others before they show symptoms or without ever showing any symptoms. All students, faculty, and staff may participate in regular testing even if you have been fully vaccinated, but we especially encourage those who have not been vaccinated to get tested weekly. Wear a face covering As the University System of Georgia (USG) works closely with the Georgia Department of Public Health to prioritize the health and safety of campus communities, the system encourages people to wear masks based on their preference and assessment of personal risk. Complete the daily self‑checklist Each day before coming to campus, protect yourself and others by checking the list of symptoms. Stay home if you feel sick. Stay home when you feel sick Monitor your symptoms. If you have an emergency warning sign (including trouble breathing), seek emergency medical care immediately. Covid-19 Testing and Exposure Decision Tree Unsure of which type of Covid-19 test to get? Been in close contact to someone with Covid-19? Confused about isolation and quarantine procedures? Follow the guidelines in this decision tree for getting tested, reporting a positive test, and isolating yourself away from others. Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login