Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics About the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan About the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan How does the Columbia Plan work with Columbia Health? Learn more Having insurance is key to helping ensure predictable health care costs and to support students in the achievement of their personal and academic goals. In an effort to reinforce this aim, Columbia requires most students to have comprehensive health insurance as part of enrollment in the University. The Columbia Plan works with Columbia Health to provide consistent, efficient care. The plan will always pay benefits in accordance with applicable New York State insurance laws. Medical Services provides primary care for students enrolled in the Columbia Plan. Clinicians in Medical Services and Counseling and Psychological Services work closely with Aetna Student Health claims administrators to arrange access to benefits available through the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. The Columbia Plan may not cover all of your health care expenses. Read the Student Health Insurance Plan Brochure carefully before making your insurance decision. Expand all Collapse all About Enrollment Summer 2022 Open Enrollment for new incoming students starting the Summer 2022 term is from May 1 to June 30, 2022. Coverage is effective from May 15, 2022 to August 14, 2022. PLEASE NOTE: Open Enrollment for the Fall 2022-2023 plan year, starts July 15 to September 30, 2022. Coverage is effective August 15, 2022. Full-time Students Each academic year, all registered full-time students must make an insurance selection. They must either: Confirm enrollment in the Columbia Plan (Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan), or Request a waiver from mandatory enrollment in the Columbia Plan (domestic students only) Full-time students will be enrolled in the Columbia Plan if they do not make an enrollment selection or if no waiver request has been submitted by the open enrollment deadline. Funded graduate students should contact their departmental administrator, financial aid office, or fellowship ofﬁce for information about whether their school provides funding to cover any portion of The Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan premium for the student and eligible dependents. Students at Teachers College, Union Theological Seminary, Jewish Theological Seminary, and Columbia University Medical Center should contact their school for health insurance information. Part-time Domestic Students New incoming Summer 2022 part-time domestic students are not automatically enrolled in the Columbia plan. However, they may request enrollment in the Columbia Plan by the June 30, 2022 deadline and are encouraged to do so. Enrolling also requires payment of the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee, which provides access to the services offered by Columbia Health. International Students Navigating the US Health Care System can be complex. To help ensure that international students have access to the highest quality of care on- and off-campus, Columbia University requires all international students to enroll in the Columbia Plan. International students are defined as any enrolled student that is not a US Citizen or Permanent Resident. All international students, regardless of the number of enrolled credits, will be enrolled in the Columbia Plan. On a case-by-case basis, international students may be considered for an exemption to this requirement when covered by a US-based group health insurance plan. An example of what may be considered as an exemption for international students is a US-based, employer-sponsored, ACA-Compliant group plan. In order to petition for a waiver, an international student must first document they are covered by a plan that meets the one potential exception described above. Once confirmed the plan is of an eligible category, the plan must then meet all of the Columbia University waiver requirements. All exemptions requests are considered though no approval is guaranteed. All determinations regarding exemptions are made by the Student Health Insurance Office on the Morningside Campus and shall be considered final. Student-veterans Student-veterans may be eligible for health care benefits through the Department of Veterans Affairs for illnesses and injuries related to their service. Columbia Health recommends that student-veterans confirm their status with Veterans Affairs and, if necessary, complete the paperwork needed to receive benefits in the New York City area. Full time student-veterans will be default enrolled into the Columbia Plan and billed the insurance premium, unless a waiver request is submitted via the Patient Portal and approved by the appropriate deadline. For additional information about health care coverage for Columbia student-veterans, visit the Student Financial Services Veterans & Service Members website. Dual Degree Students If you are a dual-degree student (for example, TC/MBA or SPH/SIPA, etc.), and are transferring campuses mid-academic plan year (fall/spring), the following will apply: The campus where you begin your academic enrollment, determines your Health and Related Service Fee (HRSF) and Aetna Student Health Insurance Plan enrollment for the entire plan year (August 15th – August 14th). For example, if you begin your enrollment at one of the affiliate schools (CUMC, Teachers College, Union Theological Seminary or Jewish Theological Seminary) in the fall, you will remain enrolled on that student health insurance plan through August 15th as long as you remain a registered student. Important Dates Date July 15 to September 30 Notice Open enrollment period Date August 14 Notice Coverage terminates for spring and summer enrollees. Date August 15 Notice Coverage begins for the new academic year. Date September 30 Notice The Columbia Plan open enrollment deadline. Full-time domestic students and all international students who have taken no action by this date will be enrolled in The Columbia Plan for the entire insurance plan year. Domestic part-time students who have taken no action by this date will not be enrolled. Date December 15 to February 15 Notice Open enrollment for new incoming spring students begins. Date December 31 Notice The Columbia Plan fall term coverage ends. Students completing their program or not registering for spring classes will term effective December 31 and not be charged spring insurance premiums. Date January 1 Notice The Columbia Plan spring term begins. Date February 15 Notice The Columbia Plan open enrollment deadline for new spring students. Full-time domestic students and all international students who have taken no action by this date will be enrolled in The Columbia Plan through August 14. Domestic part-time students who have taken no action by this date will not be enrolled. Date May 1 to June 30 Notice Open enrollment for new incoming summer term students begins. Date May 15 Notice Coverage for new summer students begins; coverage ends August 14. Date June 30 Notice The Columbia Plan open enrollment deadline for new summer students only. Full-time summer trimester domestic students and all international students who have taken no action by this date will be enrolled in The Columbia Plan for the coverage period May 15 to August 14. Expand all Collapse all About the Plan 2021-2022 Plan Benefits For the 2021-2022 academic year (August 15, 2021 - August 14, 2022), Columbia University is offering The Columbia Plan to meet students’ health-related needs beyond the on-campus services offered by Columbia Health. The Columbia Plan includes benefits for medical and mental health conditions including but not limited to chiropractic care, prescriptions, travel abroad benefits and more. The Columbia Plan is a worldwide plan providing access to coverage throughout the U.S. and internationally. Benefit Grid The Columbia Plan - Benefit Details Highlights: No in-network deductible $30 office copay $20 mental health copay $150 emergency room copay $60 urgent care center copay $15/$50/$75 prescription copays $30 co-pay on in-network services (e.g. laboratory, radiology) $3,000 in-network annual out-of-pocket maximum Annual premium of $3,892 for students (Fall - $1,483 / Spring $2,409) During the Fall and Spring terms only, Columbia Health also offers a voluntary vision insurance plan ($65) in addition to the voluntary dental insurance plan ($455). Put together, these medical, dental, and vision options provide a comprehensive coverage package for our students at prices substantially lower than plans offered via the New York State Healthcare Marketplace. Dental and Vision Discounts For information regarding Dental and Vision insurance please visit Voluntary Plans. Dental Discount Benefits for Students Enrolled in the Columbia Plan Students enrolled in the Columbia Plan have access to covered preventive dental services and specially discounted rates for other dental needs through Columbia Doctors Dentistry. The Columbia Plan includes: One routine examination per plan year X-rays as needed and with the routine examination One dental cleaning (prophylaxis) per plan year Evaluation of emergency dental conditions A $20 copay per visit A 25% discount off self-pay fees on additional services (effective for the 2021-2022 plan year) These dental benefits are operated by Columbia Doctors Dentistry and are not underwritten by Aetna or administered by Aetna Student Health. Locations 1244 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 | 212-342-2300 430 W. 116th St., New York, NY 10027 | 212-662-4887 622 W. 168th St., New York, NY 10032 | 212-305-4552 100 Haven Ave., Ground Floor, New York, NY 10032 | 212-342-0107 51 W. 51st St., 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10019 | 212-326-8520 Aetna Vision℠ Discount Program for Students Enrolled in the Columbia Plan The Aetna Vision℠ Discount Program is available to all students enrolled in the Columbia Plan, which provides access to discounted prices for many eye care products, including sunglasses, contact lenses, non-prescription sunglasses, contact lens solutions, and other eye care accessories. Plus, students can receive discounts on LASIK surgery, the laser vision correction procedure. A listing of participating providers is available through the Aetna DocFind© feature. Providers closest to the Morningside campus are: Columbia Opticians, 1246 Amsterdam Ave. (at 121st St.); 212-316-2020 LensCrafters, 2770 Broadway (between 106th and 107th streets); 212-678-0530 Coverage Throughout the United States Aetna Student Health maintains a comprehensive network of providers within the United States. When students are 50 miles or more away from campus and need routine, urgent or emergency care, they may select an in-network provider using the Provider Search feature on the Aetna Student Health website for Open Choice Student Health Medical Plans. Medically necessary care, received by an in-network provider, is covered by Aetna Student Health according to the plan design. Coverage Periods The Columbia Plan year is effective from August 15 to August 14 contingent on student registration and tuition charges. Students beginning their academic program any time during the fall and continue as a registered student in the spring term, coverage is effective at 12:00 a.m. August 15 and ends at 11:59 p.m. August 14. This includes spring graduates. Students completing an academic program in December in anticipation of a February graduation, or those who do not register for Spring courses are covered through 11:59 p.m. December 31 and are billed the fall premium only. Students graduating in October are categorically ineligible for enrollment in the Columbia Plan. Eligibility for coverage ended August 14. Spring: Coverage for new spring admitted students is effective 12:00 am January 1 through 11:59 pm August 14. Summer: Coverage for new summer admitted students is effective 12:00am May 15 through 11:59pm August 14. Eligibility for the plan is contingent on course registration and tuition charges for all students. There is no option to begin the plan earlier than the dates specified above. For students entering in the fall term who have not actively enrolled in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan, registered for classes and been charged tuition, may need to submit expenses for covered prescriptions filled before their coverage has been activated to Aetna Pharmacy Management for reimbursement. For more information, see Aetna’s Commercial Prescription Drug Claim Form. Once an insurance coverage decision has been determined for the fall term either by automatic enrollment, online selection, or waiver request, that decision will automatically be continued in the following spring term as long as the student remains registered at the University. Premiums The total health insurance premium includes fee-for-service items provided by Columbia Health, a preventative dental benefit, as well as administrative expenses associated with servicing the insurance plan (including certain personnel expenses incurred by the Columbia Health Insurance office). In addition, based on aggregate claims experience, Aetna may issue a refund to Columbia to be applied toward future premiums. For more information, contact Aetna Student Health at 800-859-8471. Funded graduate students should contact their departmental administrator, financial aid office, or fellowship ofﬁce for information about whether their school provides funding to cover any portion of The Columbia Plan premium for the student and eligible dependents. The Columbia Plan Fall Term Aug. 15 – Dec. 31, 2021 Spring/Summer Term Jan. 1 - Aug. 14, 2022 Academic Year Aug. 15, 2021 - Aug. 14, 2022 The Columbia Plan $1,483 $2,409 $3,892 The Columbia Plan Note: The Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan may not cover all of your health care expenses. The plan excludes coverage for certain services and contains limitations on the amounts it will pay. Please read the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan brochure carefully before deciding which plan is right for you. While this document will tell you about some of the important features of The Plan, other features may be important to you and some may further limit what The Plan will pay.While this document will tell you about some of the important features of The Plan, other features may be important to you and some may further limit what The Plan will pay. Referral Requirements If you are enrolled in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan, your primary care provider is at Columbia Health Medical Services and your initial mental health provider is at Counseling and Psychological Services. A referral by a Medical Service or Counseling and Psychological Services clinician is mandatory when seeking non-emergency off-campus services. If a referral is not obtained prior to seeking care, services will be reimbursed at the out-of-network benefit level at a higher out-of-pocket cost. Note: Referrals cannot be issued after a student has received off-campus services. Watch this video for more information: How to: Referrals and the Columbia Plan. Out-of-pocket Expenses The Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan may not cover all of your health care expenses. The plan excludes coverage for certain services and contains limitations on the amounts it will pay. Read the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan brochure carefully to better understand the plan. While this document will tell you about some of the important features of the plan, other features may be important to you and some may further limit what the plan will pay. It is the student's responsibility to make sure an off-campus provider is a preferred provider in the Aetna network to be eligible for the highest level of benefits. If students elect to receive care from an out-of-network provider, charges in excess of the allowed amount and applicable deductible or co-insurance will not be covered, and students will be financially responsible for those charges. Watch this video for more information: How to Submit Claims Through the Aetna Member Portal. Provider Network Students can visit the Aetna Student Health website for a full listing of providers nationwide. Click on “Find a Doctor,” enter the local zip code, and indicate membership in a "Student Health Plan.” Students can also access their insurance information through the Aetna Mobile app. After students obtain a referral from their Columbia Health primary care or mental health provider, they should select an Aetna in-network provider to maximize savings and reduce out-of-pocket expenses. Students can achieve significant savings through the agreement with Aetna regarding rates of payment for services. It is the student's responsibility to make sure an off-campus provider is a preferred provider in the Aetna network to be eligible for the highest level of benefits. If students elect to receive care from an out-of-network provider, charges in excess of the allowed amount and applicable deductible or co-insurance will not be covered, and students will be financially responsible for those charges. Using the Provider Directory Participating providers are independent contractors in private practice and are neither employees nor agents of Aetna Student Health or Columbia University. The availability of any particular provider cannot be guaranteed for referred or in-network benefits. Provider network composition is subject to change without notice. Certain primary care physicians may be affiliated with an independent practice association, a physician medical group, an integrated delivery system, or one of other provider groups. Not every provider listed in the directory will accept new patients. Although Aetna has identified providers who were accepting patients at the time the directory was created, the status of a provider's practice may have changed. For the most current information, contact the selected physician or Aetna Student Health at 800-859-8471. In the event of a problem with coverage, contact Aetna Student Health to learn how to utilize the complaint and appeals procedure when appropriate. All care and related decisions are the sole responsibility of participating providers. Aetna does not provide health care services and, therefore, cannot guarantee any results or outcomes. Insurance Cards - Plan IDs Students can expedite receipt of their insurance ID by actively conﬁrming enrollment in The Columbia Plan prior to the open enrollment deadline. After an online selection has been entered, a card is normally available to print by accessing the Aetna Student Health website 14 business days after registering for classes and being charged tuition & fees. Physical ID cards are only mailed upon request. To obtain an ID card by mail please call Aetna Customer Service at 800-859-8471. Students can also access their insurance information through the Aetna Mobile app. To print an insurance ID card, please use the student's UNI and Date of Birth. Prior to receiving access to print an insurance ID card, healthcare providers may require that students pay for the services and then seek reimbursement from Aetna Student Health (medical claims) or Aetna Pharmacy Management (pharmacy claims). Watch this video for more information: How to Print Aetna Student Health Insurance Card. Related Links About the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Dental and Vision Benefits Eligibility for Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Loss of Health Insurance Insurance for Families Health Care for International Students Referral Requirements Request a Waiver Contact Us Columbia Health Insurance Office John Jay Hall, 3rd Floor [email protected] 212-854-3286 Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close