Skip to Main Content Brown University Health & Wellness Search Menu Site Navigation Home Search Health & Wellness Health and Wellness at Brown University Health and Wellness at Brown University Health and Wellness at Brown holistically engages students in collaborative and compassionate care to support their self discovery, intellectual growth and lifelong well-being. Health & Wellness Services Back to Top The Health and Wellness unit at Brown encompasses five departments: Brown Emergency Medical Services (BEMS), BWell Health Promotion, Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), Health Services and Student Accessibility Services (SAS). Browse All Health & Wellness Services by Topic The University offers a wide range of dedicated services in support of health and wellness. Browse Services Brown’s Commitment to Care Back to Top Brown University Health and Wellness is committed to providing care for its students. Health and Wellness offers a hybrid of in-person and virtual care options to ensure both students on campus and those located outside of Rhode Island are able to receive care. Health and Wellness is looking at additional ways Brown can support students and will update the community as that information becomes available. Students are encouraged to reach out for assistance, even after hours. Brown provides 24/7 professional care for urgent situations. 24/7 Resources On-campus emergencies: 401-863-4111 (BEMS) Sexual Assault Response Line: 401-863-6000 Counseling and Psychological Services on-demand: 401-863-3476 Nursing Advice: 401-863-1330 Accessibility and safety emergencies: 401-863-4111 (Department of Public Safety) Urgent non-emergencies: 401-863-3322 (DPS administrator on call) Health & Wellness Center and Sternlicht Commons Back to Top Starting in 2015, the University took on the ambitious project of conceptualizing a dual health facility and student residence hall centered around wellness. In October 2021, the building was completed and dedicated as the Brown University Health and Wellness Center and Sternlicht Commons residential hall. The building is located at 450 Brook St. in Providence. This new facility unites Health and Wellness entities including Brown Emergency Medical Services (BEMS), BWell Health Promotion, Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) and Health Services. Student Accessibility Services (SAS) will be located nearby in Page-Robinson Hall. By co-locating Health and Wellness departments, Brown is more easily able to provide interdisciplinary care and coordinate team efforts. As Brown's first new residence hall in 35 years, Sternlicht Commons was designed with students’ well-being in mind, and residents are selected for their dedication to wellness and healthy living. The residence hall functions as a wellness community where students are actively working to cultivate an environment committed to developing and sustaining healthy lifestyles, eager to share their gifts and practices with peers through organic but focused programming, and endeavor to spread knowledge of these practices among the greater Brown community. About the Departments Back to Top Brown Emergency Medical Services Brown Emergency Medical Services (BEMS) is a blended volunteer/paid service licensed by the State of Rhode Island to provide 24/7 basic and advanced prehospital care to anyone requesting emergency aid through the Brown Communications Center. Our service area is the Brown campus or remote student or academic occupancies in the city of Providence. BEMS personnel are trained and equipped to provide the same level of services as other EMS agencies in Rhode Island, but BEMS is unique in its programs and mission as a collegiate ambulance corps. Contact EMS Phone: 401-863-4111 BWell Health Promotion BWell supports the development of skills for lifelong, holistic health and wellbeing for all Brown students by offering interventions that are both community- and evidence-informed, and rooted in social justice to empower growth and the ability to thrive, prevent health disparities, and respond to emergent needs. Contact BWell Phone: 401-863-2794 Email: bwell@brown.edu Learn More Counseling and Psychological Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) takes a goal-focused and collaborative approach to mental health services to assist students in improving their lives. With a diverse staff, CAPS offers a range of psychological treatment, prevention services and outreach in an inclusive, compassionate, affirming and socially just environment. CAPS is available 24/7 for urgent needs and regularly open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Contact CAPS Phone: 401-863-3476 Email: counseling@health.brown.edu Health Services Health Services provides holistic care that is respectful of students' personal, cultural and social identities. Health professionals offer visits for urgent and routine care, 24/7 nursing advice and on-site lab, pharmacy and X-ray services. In-person care and laboratory hours are subject to change during summer and holidays or if experiencing inclement weather or complications; visit the website for the most current hours. Contact Health Services Phone: 401-863-3953 Email: nursing@health.brown.edu Student Accessibility Services Student Accessibility Services (SAS) coordinates and facilitates services for undergraduate and graduate students with medical, physical, psychological and learning disabilities. While services for students with documented disabilities or medical conditions are coordinated through SAS, the accommodations are implemented by the Brown University community. Accommodations and services are provided based on student needs and are determined on a case-by-case basis. Contact SAS Phone: 401-863-9588 Email: sas@brown.edu Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Health and Wellness at Brown University Open details for Health and Wellness at Brown University Bookmark this Page