Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Sexual and Gender Identity Issues Sexual and Gender Identity Issues Support Spaces From time to time, when there is sufficient student interest, we offer support spaces and other special programs for LGBTQ students. Current offering: QT Talks: A Virtual Support Space for Queer & Trans Students, Tuesdays @ 6:00 PM ET We welcome hearing from student groups who would like to partner with us in developing programs to serve the LGBTQ community. Contact Associate Director for Outreach, Anne Goldfield. Drop-in Students are welcome to drop-in during sexual and gender-identity drop-in hours at Lerner 502. Healthcare Services Visit our Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Care Services page to see a full list of services. Expand all Collapse all Sexual and Gender Identity Team Kori Bennett, Psychologist Kori Bennett has been interested in how students make sense of their multiple identities, including those related to gender and sexuality since interning at Cal Poly Pomona’s Pride Center as an undergraduate student. Kori views the intentional honoring of the unique stories we each hold and being an ally as integral components of community-building, including working toward what author and activist Bell Hooks describes as a “place in the world where people can engage in one another’s differences in a way that is redemptive, full of hope, and possibility.” Kori is particularly interested in trans/gender intersectionalities, polyamory/relationship orientation, and international gender and sexuality topics. Kori holds drop-in hours weekly in the Lerner 5 office. Jennifer Dunbar, Licensed Clinical Social Worker Jennifer is a clinical social worker at CPS who works as an advocate for students, valuing each individual as an expert of their own experience. She uses a strengths-based approach to help individuals explore their identities. Jennifer enjoys spinning on Peloton bikes, listening to 90s R&B/Pop, and re-watching her favorite TV series over and over. Motoni Fong Hodges, Senior Psychologist Motoni began her training in LGBTQ affirmative psychotherapy during her year-long internship at the University of Oregon Counseling Center, where she helped create and co-led a support group for bisexual students. She has co-authored articles on assessment of sexual orientation and sexual identity development of Asian American adolescents, as well as taught a graduate seminar on LGBTQ mental health at Teachers College. Motoni is committed to promoting the emotional and physical wellbeing of LGBTQ students, as well advocating on behalf of LGBTQ students of color. Motoni is fluent in Japanese and Mandarin. Michele Goldman, Psychologist Michele has experience working with the LGBTQ+ community in various settings. She is interested in working with students to understand how their multiple identities, including gender and sexuality, intersect and impact their expression of self. She is particularly interested in working with students who are questioning their identities, coming out, struggling with issues related to sexual health and sexuality, or who are facing internal or external barriers to being their true selves. Michele seeks to create a non-judgmental space that allows students to feel accepted with who they are and where they are in relation to their identities. Wardeh Hattab, Licensed Senior Social Worker Wardeh has experience in working with LGBTQ+ persons who also face challenges with acculturation in the United States. She has facilitated support groups for LGBTQ+ people from the Middle East and North Africa. Her other interests involve work with persons from polyamorous/non-monogamous communities and kink-identified communities. Wardeh also works with persons navigating identities related to gender, sexuality, and Islam. She can understand Arabic at a basic level. Adam Johnson, Psychologist Adam has training in working with the LGBTQ community in various settings and has been involved in human rights work internationally. His experience includes issues related to sexual and gender identity, coming out, navigating relationships, stigma, and sexual health. Adam also has specialized experience within the community, including with gay men with HIV, individuals with substance abuse concerns, LGBTQ veterans, and individuals identifying within the Latino LGBTQ community. Adam seeks to create a safe and nonjudgmental space that allows students to feel accepted and openly explore concerns. He is fluent in Spanish. Vincent Kiefner, Psychologist Vincent has significant experience working with the LGBTQ+ community in college settings. He has worked with students who are questioning their identities, coming out, navigating relationships, and dealing with stigma. Vincent seeks to create a safe and non-judgmental space that allows students to feel accepted and openly explore concerns. He hopes that students feel supported as they work on defining their life paths. Jennifer Liu, Psychiatrist As a member of the LGBTQ+ ally community, Jennifer is interested in working with students to address barriers that prevent them from living their best lives. Whether due to internal struggles with identity and sexuality, the influence of these concerns on their relationships with others, and/or the impact of these factors on areas of functioning such as academics and/or work, Jennifer provides a safe non-judgmental space for students to discuss any concerns at their own pace. Mariana Nicholls, Psychologist Mariana Nicholls is a member of the LGBTQ+ community and has experience working with students to explore sexual orientation and gender identity. Through her career, Mariana has provided individual therapy and support groups for LGBTQ+ students. She pays attention to intersectionality of identities and strives to create a safe space to support students at each stage of identity development. Mariana is committed to increasing access to affirming psychotherapy for LGBTQ+ students and is passionate about being an advocate on behalf of LGBTQ+ students of color. Mariana is Latina and is fluent in Spanish. Sherina Persaud, Psychologist Sherina Persaud is a member of the LGBTQ community and has experience working in sexual and reproductive health. Sherina believes that our various identities come together to create our unique experience of the world. She therefore aims to understand how these identities intersect for students as they navigate issues related to their gender and sexual identity. She is interested in working with students who are questioning their identities or are facing challenges related to being in the LGBTQ community in an academic setting. Sherina is fluent in Spanish. Addette Williams, Senior Psychologist Addette is a member of the LGBTQ ally community and has a particular interest in working with students wanting to explore their multiple and intersecting identities to achieve an integrated sense of wholeness and wellbeing. Over the years, she has worked with individuals and couples who identify as trans and gender nonconforming. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty LGBTQ Physical Health and Wellbeing Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close