Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Public Health and Human Sciences » Academics Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About the College Academics Research Community Engagement Center for Health Innovation Contact About the College Academics Research Community Engagement Center for Health Innovation Contact Public Health Undergraduate program Public Health Undergraduate program Hone your passion. Find your purpose. Corvallis Ecampus Plan a visit How to apply Improve the lives of others With an Oregon State bachelor of science degree in public health, you’ll learn about the root causes of health challenges and the complex factors that shape every one of us. Public health professionals promote and protect the health of people and communities – where they live, learn, work and play. How will you improve your community? Request info Loading... As a public health major at Oregon State, you’ll... Take a holistic look at disease and injury prevention, including environmental issues and health policies. Dive deep into the social determinants of health — the social and environmental conditions in which we are born, grow, live, work and age. Address health across the lifespan, including health disparities and health equity. Have the opportunity to work locally, nationally and internationally on critical health issues. What is public health? Public health professionals promote and protect the health of people and communities – where they live, learn, work and play. Learn more Public health degree options Choose one of the following public health degree options: Health Management and Policy Health Promotion and Health Behavior Enhance your experience Gerontology certificate Environmental and occupational health minor Health systems and policy accelerated graduate program Environmental and occupational health accelerated graduate program CPHHS is the first accredited school of public health in Oregon Ecampus This major option is also available 100% online through OSU Ecampus, ranked No. 4 in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. Online program details Sample public health courses Evidence-based health promotion Financial management of health care organizations Health care law and regulation Planning and evaluating health promotion programs What will you do with a public health degree? Public health is a rapidly changing and expanding field that offers diverse and rewarding career options. 250,000+ public health workers are needed to meet the world’s current needs. Study public health for careers in: *These roles may require post-baccalaureate/graduate/professional education to qualify. Health management and policy Health care administrator Health clinic manager Health communication specialist Long-term care administrator* Policy analyst Public health department administrator International health worker State health department manager Health promotion and health behavior Certified health educator* Community health worker* College/university health educator* Epidemiologist* Environmental health specialist* Global health educator* Grant writer/evaluation consultant* Health promotion agency director* Media advocacy specialist Patient navigator Worksite health promotion specialist/assistant Emily Burney, '18 "I had never heard of public health before, but learning about the myriad of ways in which public health work impacts our lives made me want to learn more, so I could work to make others’ lives better in the future." Come here for pre-med, nursing or allied health The College of Public Health and Human Sciences is a great place to start your pre-med or pre-health journey. All of our majors are well-suited to provide you with a unique background and perspective. Choose the major that interests you and inspires you! Once you’re here, meet with our pre-med advisor to make sure you’re on the right track. See how current students are supported on their path to pre-med or pre-health professions. How to transfer Change your major Academic minors and certificates Join a student club Talk to our campus guide 541-737-7205 Public Health undergraduate minor ‹ Academic Minors and Certificates up Public Health undergraduate minor › Contact Info College of Public Health and Human Sciences 160 SW 26th St, Corvallis OR 97331 Land Acknowledgement ©2022 Oregon State University Contact 541.737.3220 Website Issue? Privacy Disclaimer and Accessibility Information Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram