Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > Researchers at LIBR identify abnormal heart-brain connection in generalized anxiety disorder Researchers at LIBR identify abnormal heart-brain connection in generalized anxiety disorder February 2, 2022 Researchers at the Laureate Institute for Brain Research (LIBR) in Tulsa have identified an abnormal link between the autonomic and central nervous systems, specifically via communication between the heart and part of the brain’s frontal cortex in women with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). The team’s objective was to test whether individuals suffering from GAD show dysfunction in the neural circuitry underlying cardiovascular arousal and whether that may be associated with certain disorder-related symptoms such as anxiety and body sensation. To conduct the study, they completed a randomized clinical trial of 58 adult female participants (29 with GAD and 29 matching healthy comparisons). During the study they stimulated the cardiovascular system using a medicine called isoproterenol, which mimics the effects of adrenaline but, unlike adrenaline, cannot cross the blood-brain-barrier to directly impact brain activity. Intravenous infusions of isoproterenol or saline were administered during functional magnetic resonance imaging, allowing them to assess whether the brains of patients with GAD differ in the processing of information received from the body, a function known as “interception.” The main findings were that patients with GAD differed significantly from healthy participants on several variables, but only during the lower of two dosages of isoproterenol. Specifically, they perceived their heartbeats to be more intense and had relatively higher heart rates and lower neural activity in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, a brain area known to regulate the autonomic nervous system and to facilitate feelings of fear or safety. Self-reported anxiety was significantly higher only for those with GAD compared to healthy participants in response to either dose. The research findings, “Association of Generalized Anxiety Disorder with Autonomic Hypersensitivity and Blunted Ventromedial Prefrontal Cortex Activity During Peripheral Adrenergic Stimulation,” were published in the Feb. 2, 2022, edition of JAMA Psychiatry. For lead author Adam Teed, a postdoctoral associate at LIBR, the fact that the abnormal results observed for those with GAD occurred during lower, but not higher, doses of medicine was the primary finding from the study: “Administering isoproterenol allowed us to provide causal evidence that an abnormally sensitive cardiovascular system and an abnormally insensitive frontal cortex in GAD patients lowers their ability to regulate bodily arousal. This could help to explain why they experience anxiety so frequently and in a wide variety of contexts.” The authors hope that their study prompts further research into the ventromedial prefrontal cortex as a therapeutic target for novel treatments helping individuals with GAD to regulate physiological and emotional responses to stress. Beyond the novel link revealed by this study, it is noteworthy that cardiovascular hypersensitivity was observed for GAD patients at all. This is because the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM–5), the standard classification system used by mental health professionals in the United States, describes autonomic symptoms, such as sweating, rapid heart rate or shortness of breath, as being less prominent in GAD than other anxiety disorders, such as panic disorder. Sahib Khalsa As senior author Sahib Khalsa, M.D., Ph.D., a psychiatrist and principal investigator at LIBR put it, “this study shows us that anxiety is not only something that happens within our brains but within our bodies as well.” Thus, these findings show that abnormal functioning of the autonomic nervous system is not only a factor in GAD, but it occurs in combination with abnormal functioning of certain areas of the brain. Such associations are what Khalsa believes to be the most important product of this research: “It is the interaction between our brain and body that may be essential for determining whether an innocuous situation creates a state of fear in individuals with GAD. We need to better understand how this abnormal physiological response relates to the functional impairments that commonly interfere with the daily lives of such individuals.” Martin Paulus The research team was led by Khalsa, who is also an associate professor in TU’s Oxley College of Health Sciences, and Teed, with additional authors from LIBR, including Martin Paulus, M.D. (LIBR/TU), as well as The University of Oklahoma, the University of California at Los Angeles and the University of California at San Diego. The research was supported by the National Institute of Mental Health, The William K. Warren Foundation and the National Institute of General Medicine Sciences, and was conducted at LIBR between January 2017 and November 2019. For more information about the project, contact Sahib Khalsa, M.D., Ph.D., at the Laureate Institute for Brain Research at skhalsa@laureateinstitute.org. Faculty, Featured, Health Sciences, News, Research, Stories Adam Teed, generalized anxiety disorder, Laureate Institute for Brain Research, LIBR, Martin Paulus, Sahib Khalsa Categories Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Alumni Announcements Arts & Sciences Arts and Sciences Athletic Training Biological Science Business Career Services Commitment Commitment: Accepted Commitment: Empowered Commitment: Engaged Commitment: Self-Discovery Communication Sciences & Disorders Community Service Computer Science Diversity Doctor of Nursing Practice Engineering and Natural Sciences Exercise & Sports Science Experiential Learning Faculty Family Nurse Practitioner Featured Global Education Health Care Delivery Sciences Health Sciences IDEAS: A 21st-century health blog Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences Law School News Nursing President Research Schweitzer Fellowship Stories Student Stories study abroad True Blue uncategorized veterans 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT