Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown COVID-19 Vaccine Resources Breadcrumb Home Vaccinations Sub Navigation In This Section Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs COVID-19 Vaccine Resources This list of resources is available to assist the Brown community in scheduling vaccination appointments and better understanding how the COVID-19 vaccine works. All individuals 5 years of age and older who live, work or study in Rhode Island are eligible to get the COVID-19 vaccine at no cost and with no requirement for insurance. There are multiple ways to make an appointment to get a vaccination in Rhode Island: You can make an appointment at one of the state-run vaccination sites, including the Dunkin Donuts Center in downtown Providence, at vaccinateri.org. The Dunkin Donuts Center vaccination clinic operates daily from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., and free parking is available at the Rhode Island Convention Center North Garage. From College Hill, the Omni Express (weekdays) and the Omni/Chestnut Express (nights and weekends) shuttle routes offer frequent service and the Omni stop is a 3-minute walk from the entrance to the Dunkin Donuts Center. Shuttle routes and operating hours can be found on the Transportation Office website. Several local pharmacies offer COVID-19 vaccination appointments and information can be found on their websites, including: CVS Health, Walgreens, Walmart and Stop & Shop. Many cities and towns in Rhode Island are operating local and regional vaccine sites as well. The State’s vaccine locator map includes these sites. Providence residents can find information about vaccine sites available to them on the City of Providence’s vaccine information website. One of the best ways to prepare for the COVID-19 vaccine is to understand how it works, its safety and effectiveness and its possible side effects. Below is a list of resources for learning more about the vaccines. Rhode Island Department of Health Vaccine Information U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Vaccine FAQ Essential Workers COVID-19 Vaccine Toolkit (CDC) Ensuring the Safety of COVID-19 Vaccines in the U.S. (CDC) Myths and Facts About COVID-19 Vaccines (CDC) What To Expect After Getting a COVID-19 Vaccine (CDC) Massachusetts COVID-19 Vaccine Information Connecticut COVID-19 Response World Health Organization Science in 5 Video Series Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers: The Pfizer-Biontech COVID-19 Vaccine to Prevent Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Individuals 16 Years of Age and Older Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers: The Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine to Prevent Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Individuals 18 Years of Age and Older Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers: The Janssen / Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 Vaccine to Prevent Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Individuals 18 Years of Age and Older Last updated Jan. 22, 2022. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search COVID-19 Vaccine Resources Open details for COVID-19 Vaccine Resources Bookmark this Page