Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Empowered Exercise and sport science grad charts new health care delivery sciences path 918-631-2681 Health Sciences Facility Map Contact https://youtu.be/SF68tkNtauE Request Information INSTITUTE FOR HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SCIENCES Graduate programs Certificate in Health Care Delivery Sciences MBA in Health Care Delivery Sciences Undergraduate course In Sickness and in Health IDEAS: A 21st-CENTURY HEALTH BLOG The University of Tulsa’s Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences has a singular mission: to develop and re-engineer health care so that it addresses the evolving needs of complex and diverse populations. We aspire to promote accessible, affordable, safe, efficient, high-quality, ethical and more satisfying care for everyone. Our work We combine academic rigor with the rich experience of our many community partners. Our work is focused on: Approaching health care transformation through the lens of scientific analysis and discovery Contextualizing all health care challenges within the broader social determinants of health Critically appraising the current state of health care, while “thinking differently” to design the delivery system of the future Bringing together disparate stakeholders, including providers, managers, payers, consumers and purchasers of health care services, in order to help them build a common language, framework and understanding around complex delivery issues Collaborating with non-traditional academic disciplines when solving health care problems, including engineering, law, business, computer science, informatics, sociology, humanities and history Conducting much of our work beyond the university’s borders, addressing the needs of diverse patients, populations and communities Shaping the next generation of leaders charged with managing health care transformation across the entire economy Academic programming If you are a mid-career professional who wants to become a leader in your organization and the health care sector, consider our Certificate in Health Care Delivery Sciences. Through this online program you will expand your knowledge of the science of health care delivery, quality improvement, population health, strategic planning and health care policy. Graduate-level training is also available through our unique MBA in Health Care Delivery Sciences. Through this program you will gain the knowledge and skills necessary to successfully lead and manage a health care organization in a changing and competitive environment. For undergraduates, we offer In Sickness and in Health: Analyzing the U.S. Health Care System (HCDS 2013). In this course you will learn about defining health (vs. illness), disease prevention, public health, financing, disparities, ethics, communications, policy, and future trends in health care. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT