Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Hours Monday to Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Phone 918-728-1652 Location Oxley Health Sciences, Room 524 Map Email Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Projects National Organization Apply for Fellowship The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship is a 12-month health leadership program that addresses Oklahoma’s immense health disparities. The Fellowship does this by innovating unique solutions now through Fellow projects and building leaders-in-health equipped to continue to improve the health of our community for the long-haul. The Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship is housed at The University of Tulsa Oxley College of Health Sciences. It is one of 13 sites across the U.S. Each year, 10 to 15 fellows are selected through a competitive process from a wide range of graduate and professional degree programs at Tulsa-area universities including The University of Tulsa, University of Oklahoma-Tulsa, Oklahoma State University-Tulsa, Oklahoma State University Center for Health Sciences and Langston University. In the first five years of the Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship, Tulsa fellows have launched 48 unique projects, served more than 5,419 vulnerable Tulsans and contributed more than 10,382 hours to the community. Learn more about the Tulsa Chapter. Read about the sixth class of Tulsa Schweitzer Fellows. Details and Fast Facts Each fellow receives a $2,000 stipend to design and implement a unique, year-long 200-hour service project that addresses an unmet health need in the Tulsa area with a measurable impact. Past projects have included a diabetes education program at the Tulsa Day Center for the Homeless, Tulsa’s first parenting class for veterans at the Coffee Bunker, and nutrition and obesity prevention workshops for fifth-graders in four Tulsa Public Schools locations. Learn more about Albert Schweitzer. Fellowship fast facts Deadline: Completed applications are due in February of each year. See application link below for more details. Program length: The program runs from April to May for the period of 13 months. Eligibility: Enrolled graduate and professional degree students from any Tulsa-area university Application information Leadership and Contact Information Director, Rachel Gold Rachel Gold is the director of the Tulsa chapter of the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship. Prior to joining The University of Tulsa and the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship, Gold was the director of health initiatives at the Tulsa Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy. Her background is in community-based health innovation, leadership development and community organizing. Gold earned her M.A. in Studies in Policy and Practice from the University of Victoria and her undergraduate degree in psychology from McMaster University. Contact Rachel Gold Program Director Phone: 918-631-2925 Mobile: 918-728-1652 Email: rachel-gold@utulsa.edu TU Oxley College of Health Sciences Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship 1215 S. Boulder Ave. W., Room 513 Tulsa, OK 74119 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT