Health Sleep Why Sleep Matters Benefits of Sleep Consequences of Insufficient Sleep Historical and Cultural Perspectives of Sleep The Science of Sleep Getting the Sleep You Need Search Why Sleep Matters When we miss sleep in order to keep up with our 24/7 world, we pay a price with our ability to learn, our health and safety, and our quality of life Benefits of Sleep Consequences of Insufficient Sleep Historical and Cultural Perspectives of Sleep Benefits of Sleep Although science has uncovered no clear answer to “Why do we sleep?” we are discovering more about sleep’s important functions. go to this section Featured content Why Sleep Matters Sleep, Learning, and Memory Why Do We Sleep, Anyway? see complete video index Why Sleep Matters (6:13) Sleep researchers are discovering how sleep is vital for learning and memory, and how lack of sleep impacts our health, safety, and longevity. watch video Sleep, Learning, and Memory (1:52) Dr. Robert Stickgold discusses how sleep plays a role in memory, both before and after a new learning situation. watch video Why Do We Sleep, Anyway? Although scientists aren’t entirely sure why we sleep, they have many ideas about the functions of this mysterious part of our lives. go to page Consequences of Insufficient Sleep Most of what we know about sleep’s functions can be seen in light of what goes wrong when we deprive ourselves of this vital activity. go to this section Featured content Why Sleep Matters Sleep and Disease Risk Sleep and Judgment Drowsy Driving see complete video index Why Sleep Matters (6:13) Sleep researchers are discovering how sleep is vital for learning and memory, and how lack of sleep impacts our health, safety, and longevity. watch video Sleep and Disease Risk The price of insufficient sleep may be poor health. Study after study has revealed that people who sleep poorly are at greater risk for a number of diseases and health problems. go to page Sleep and Judgment (1:06) Dr. Robert Stickgold discusses a study that suggests a link between sleep loss and increased impairment in judgment. watch video Drowsy Driving (0:42) Dr. Charles Czeisler discusses the link between motor vehicle accidents and tired drivers. watch video Historical and Cultural Perspectives of Sleep “Waste of time,” “royal road to the unconscious” or key means to sustain life and health: How we look at sleep varies across cultures and has changed through time. go to this section Featured content Sleep: A Historical Perspective see complete video index Sleep: A Historical Perspective Explore sleep and sleep research with this interactive. launch interactive Harvard University A resource from the Division of Sleep Medicine at Harvard Medical School Produced in partnership with WGBH Educational Foundation About this Site | Site Map | Glossary | Video Index | Technical Help Feedback | Credits | Disclosures | Disclaimers | Understanding Sleep