Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Public Health and Human Sciences Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About the College Academics Research Community Engagement Center for Health Innovation Contact About the College Academics Research Community Engagement Center for Health Innovation Contact Solving tomorrow’s health challenges begins today We prepare the next generation of globally aware problem-solvers and seek to understand and confront health disparity to improve the health and well-being of all people, at every stage of life. Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni CPHHS COVID-19 information Synergies College news and stories elsi-grant-600px.jpg CPHHS receives $14.4 million grant for statewide center to support early childhood educators The new center will provide support and training from an anti-bias, culturally responsive lens to better equip educators who care for children from marginalized populations and for children who have experienced trauma. brian-primack-600px.jpg Brian Primack named dean of OSU College of Public Health and Human Sciences Primack has more than 250 peer-reviewed publications in areas spanning public health, behavioral science, substance use, mental health and education. asp3ire-center-grant-600px.jpg Nearly $5M grant to establish children’s environmental health research center at Oregon State The purpose of this grant is to reduce children’s exposure to harmful environmental factors and improve their health and well-being. Events View all events Sigrid Jenniska Asseko PhD candidate in public health Environmental and Occupational Health “The ocean is made of water drops. If everyone can contribute a little bit of knowledge, we can create that ocean of information and maybe one day effectively reduce environmental pollution and protect people’s health.” Synergies magazine Get news on teaching, research and outreach in the CPHHS Class of ’21 CPHHS grads are difference-makers who make a healthy difference in the world. OSU Extension Family and Community Health faculty are community partners who improve health and well-being across Oregon. A pathway to medical careers Students get the background to pursue a variety of medical careers, from medicine to occupational therapy. Research powerhouse College researchers brought in nearly $22 million in research funding in FY ’20, and all students are encouraged to engage in research activities. Modern, diverse learners On campus or online, our nearly 2,400 students come from across the nation and around the globe. More than 32% represent as a minority. Apply Find a major Request info Visit Give Back There are a number of ways to make a difference and support our work, from changing a student’s life through a scholarship or giving to specialized funds that support IMPACT, the Dean’s Fund for Excellence and more. Ways to give back Contact Info College of Public Health and Human Sciences 160 SW 26th St, Corvallis OR 97331 Land Acknowledgement ©2022 Oregon State University Contact 541.737.3220 Website Issue? Privacy Disclaimer and Accessibility Information Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram