Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Exercise and Sports Science Undergraduate Program Health and wellness Onward to dentistry school Career readiness Graduate earns national certification > Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences > Exercise and Sports Science Undergraduate Program https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ KINESIOLOGY & REHABILITATIVE SCIENCES Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Athletic Training Exercise & Sports Science Undergraduate Program Accelerated Exercise & Sports Science to Master of Athletic Training Exercise Science Facilities Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Exercise and sports science practitioners provide health care, technique/skill instruction and performance enhancement for the physically active population. Students gain foundational knowledge for this practice by studying how physical activity influences the human body. Clinical skill acquisition is also a necessary component. Courses within this degree program address both areas. TU’s exercise and sports science program reflects the unique nature of the university and the community. The program is built on a foundation of scientific knowledge specific to the human body and how it is impacted by physical activity or physical stress. Our program has the flexibility to prepare students for health care graduate or professional programs, such as medicine, athletic training, physical therapy, cardiac rehabilitation and other fields closely related to exercise science, or to enter a corporate or commercial fitness setting. The science foundation of the bachelor of science in exercise and sports science is complemented by practical application. Students majoring in exercise and sports science complete internships tailored to their specific career goals. Internships are designed to provide students opportunities to acquire clinical skills and ensure they are prepared to function in their chosen career setting. Students gain valuable firsthand experience, which strengthens their knowledge base and enhances their position in the job market after graduation. The city of Tulsa has an extensive medical community that offers a variety of student internship settings; in particular, physical therapy clinics and wellness/fitness centers. Students may opt for the following tracks: Traditional – general studies for employment in wellness and fitness Rehabilitation and therapeutics – for work in cardiac and orthopedic rehabilitation and strength training Pre-health professional degree – provides prerequisites for physician assistant, dentist or physical therapist degrees Pre-athletic training – Prepares students to enter TU’s master of athletic training program Depending on a student’s choice of major, along with a possible minor and electives, he or she can prepare for diverse fields. For example, a student under the traditional track may add a business minor, preparing them to work and perhaps later own a fitness center. Program Learning Outcomes Students who complete the EXSS program will: Demonstrate comprehension of the sciences applied to human function and exercise Demonstrate the ability to appraise behavioral and physiologic outcomes related to musculoskeletal, neuromuscular, and cardiovascular human function Demonstrate the ability to retrieve, manage, and critically analyze data relevant to the improvement of health and human performance Demonstrate the ability to effectively summarize and disseminate, both written and orally, information relevant to the improvement of health and human performance Demonstrate the ability to design and implement strategies, utilizing contemporary techniques, for improving health and human performance. Participate as professionally prepared and responsible members of their chosen profession and community. Degree Options Exercise and Sports Science, B.S.E.S.S. Provides structured classroom and clinical experiences to prepare a student for an entry-level position in exercise and sports science. Coaching minor The coaching minor prepares students for coaching positions in a variety of athletic settings and is offered to non-exercise and sports science/athletic training majors. Exercise Science minor The minor provides students with the knowledge necessary to understand exercise and sports science concepts, such as functional movement, responses, and adaptations. The coursework increases a student’s knowledge base, enhances qualifications, provides competitive edge in the allied health, wellness or fitness world and builds credibility. Students who complete this minor are eligible to sit for the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) or the NSCA Certified Personal Trainer (CPT) exams. Health Sciences minor The Health Sciences minor is intended to provide students with a broader understanding of universal concepts related to health and healthcare. It is recommended for students from any major who plan to work in any aspect of healthcare. The coursework required for this academic minor allows students to tailor the 12 required credit hours from a list of courses that represent a variety of health and healthcare related disciplines. Pre-health Professions Students interested in pursuing studies in medicine, physician’s assistant or similar programs Typical Four Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation Human Physiology with Lab Math with Applications Prevention and Treatment Concepts and Issues in Sports Science Business and Society Human Anatomy with Lab Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience Orientation Strategies for Healthy Living SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Human Anatomy and Kinesiology with Lab Block II - Historical & Social Interpretation Sports Nutrition Exercise Physiology with Lab Human Sexuality Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience Block II - Historical & Social Interpretation Pedagogy of Sport Skills/Outdoor Sports Introduction to Spreadsheets Block III - Scientific Investigation JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Drug Education and Pharmacology Clinical Methodology SPA or Elective SPA or Elective Methods for Elementary and Special Populations Legal Aspects in Athletic Training Development of Strength and Conditioning Programs Instructional Methods in Health Statistics I Elective Elective Elective SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Allied Health Research Internship Internship Motor Control Biomechanics Writing for the Professions Writing Elective Understanding Electrocardiography Elective Elective Elective 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT