Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search For Staff On this page, you will find information and answers to frequently asked questions related to COVID-19 for all Stanford employees. For additional information specific to faculty/instructors and researchers/research administrators, please go to their respective pages. Current status As of May 27 Stanford is following a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery. Face coverings. Aligning with county and state guidance, with certain exceptions, face coverings are no longer required but will continue to be strongly recommended on-site regardless of vaccination status. Cal-OSHA’s requirement for unvaccinated individuals to mask indoors was also lifted. Vaccination requirement. Stanford already requires all faculty, staff, postdoctoral scholars and students (undergraduate, graduate and professional students) coming on-site to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19. As a result of the Sept. 9th executive order, the university announced an expanded vaccination requirement that will apply to all university employees, including those working remotely in the United States, and applicable subcontractors. Compliance with the federal mandate requires that proof of vaccination status be uploaded to Health Check by Jan. 4, 2022. (The initial federal deadline of Dec. 8, 2021 has since been delayed.) Return to On-site Work. Learn more about the requirements and protocols for returning to on-site work at a Stanford facility and other tips to prepare for your return on Cardinal at Work. Submitting your Health Check, to self-report health status is required on a daily basis for employees and postdocs working in-person at a Stanford facility. However, fully vaccinated faculty, staff and postdocs who have (1) listed their vaccination date(s) and manufacturers in Health Check and (2) uploaded an image of their documentation on Health Check will not be required to make daily Health Check submissions when coming to campus (unless they become symptomatic, are a close contact of someone who tested positive for COVID, or receive a positive COVID test result). For those uploading vaccination documentation for the first time, follow these instructions. For questions about vaccination reporting in Health Check, please refer to these FAQs. Surveillance testing. Unvaccinated faculty, staff, postdoctoral scholars including those who have received a medical or religious accommodation are required to test twice weekly for those working on-site four or more days per week. Individuals on-site three days or fewer per week are required to test once a week. As of March 1, 2022 regular surveillance testing is no longer required for vaccinated faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars working on-site. Fully vaccinated faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars are still encouraged to test after travel, if symptomatic or after exposure to COVID-19. Rapid antigen tests can now be used to follow university testing protocols that do not specifically require a Color (RT-LAMP) or RT-PCR test. See more details on this page. Travel. The university made important updates to its domestic and international travel policy effective March 28, 2022. While these changes are intended to help campus units plan for future activities, Stanford recommends that unvaccinated non-U.S. citizens do not travel outside of the United States given the uncertainty around entry requirements. Current requirements and updates effective March 28 are available here. To support in-person summer programming, new guidance and requirements are now available to ensure COVID-19 safety protocols are met. R&DE retail cafes and markets are open in Stanford Redwood City, SLAC and the Main campus to students, faculty and staff. Dining hall access is currently limited to students, their children and registered partners/spouses with a green HealthCheck badge. If the positive trend continues, Residential & Dining Enterprises (R&DE) expects to open the dining halls to faculty and staff during the fall quarter. R&DE retail cafes and markets are open to students, faculty and staff. See Stanford Dining locations and hours and retail locations and hours on the R&DE website. The Stanford Guest House located on the SLAC campus is accepting advance reservations. Stanford Catering is available to cater small meetings and gatherings across the campus and delivers healthy meal choices with sustainable ingredients freshly prepared right on the Farm. An overview of all current policies and status regarding COVID-19 is available here. Relevant policy information Related announcements Related FAQs for… All Stanford employees Stanford Health Care staff Contingent (temporary/casual) staff Frequently asked questions for… Providing a healthy and safe workplace is important at any time for Stanford, and is of paramount concern during the COVID-19 outbreak. We strive to provide the best care for our staff members and continue to operate as effectively as we can during this time of uncertainty. We are committed to providing updates on the latest developments and explaining how they impact our people and our workplace. All Stanford employees Find information and resources on pay continuation, remote work, prevention, and other topics related to working at Stanford during shelter-in-place. Working remotelyPreventionTravelHelp & support See all FAQs for Stanford employees Stanford Health Care staff Information and resources for Stanford Health Care staff. Health & safetyHelp & support See all FAQs for Stanford Health Care staff Contingent (temporary/casual) staff Information and resources for contingent staff during shelter-in-place. Working remotelyHelp & support See all FAQs for contingent staff Workplace resources COVID-19 Workplace Guide (for employees) https://cardinalatwork.stanford.edu/covid-19 COVID-19 interim policies https://cardinalatwork.stanford.edu/covid-19/interim-policies Employee support & self care https://cardinalatwork.stanford.edu/covid-19/employee-support-and-self-care Return to On-site Work resources https://cardinalatwork.stanford.edu/working-stanford/covid-19/healthy-safe-workplace/return-workplace Manager resources https://cardinalatwork.stanford.edu/manager-toolkit/engage/covid-19-tools Virtual training COVID-19 Hygiene Best Practices Training Navigating self through uncertainty – for individual contributors See FAQs for All Stanford employees Stanford Health Care staff Contingent staff On this page Relevant policy information Workplace resources COVID-19 workplace Guide (for employees) COVID-19 interim policies Employee support & self-care Manager resources Virtual training Testing, prevention & care What should I do if I'm feeling ill? Where can I get tested? How do I get vaccinated? Personal care & prevention Campus hygiene Social distancing protocol Report test results/symptoms Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Work anywhere Learn about resources for telecommuting and remote work Virtual training for employees Managing teams during uncertainty Navigating self through uncertainty Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.