Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Harvard Kennedy School | HARVARD.EDU Search Subscribe to our mailing list Subscribe to Robert Stavins' blog Environmental Insights Podcast Home Research HEEP Discussion Papers Other Faculty Publications Harvard Project on Climate Agreements Energy Efficiency Project News & Events News Events Harvard Workshop on the Economics of the Clean Air Act: In Commemoration of the 50th Anniversary of the Act Berkeley-Harvard-Yale Virtual Seminar Series Seminar Schedules Past PhD Lunches People Faculty Fellows In Memoriam Pre-Doctoral Fellows Postdoctoral Affiliates Visiting Scholars Associate Scholars Staff Academics Ph.D. Programs Harvard Courses & Seminars Podcast About Sponsors Director's Welcome Stavins featured at “Top Environmental Economists,” January 2022 Professor Stavins is profiled and interviewed by Ingmar Schumacher Centre for Policy Research Professor Navroz Dubash Highlights Institutional Dimensions of Climate Policy Latest Episode of Environmental Insights Pragmatic Climate Policy Options: A Conversation with Gib Metcalf Recent Episode of “Environmental Insights” HEEP Director is Interviewed by Harvard Gazette: Robert Stavins Offers Cautiously Positive Assessment on COP26 Energy Economist Robert Pindyck Advocates for Additional Research on Climate Adaptation Recent Episode of Environmental Insights Podcast EPA Science Advisory Board Member, LBJ School Professor Sheila Olmstead Talks Water Policy and Environmental Justice Episode of Environmental Insights Podcast EDF Chief Economist Suzi Kerr Discusses New Zealand’s ETS, the US’ New NDC, and CBAM Episode of “Environmental Insights” New Paper in Science Reinforces the Value of Using the Social Cost of Carbon (SCC) for Evaluating Climate Policy Options Essay co-authored by HEEP faculty affiliates Joseph Aldy, and Robert Stavins, and FAS Professor James Stock Stanford Economics Professor Lawrence Goulder Discusses Policy Options for Addressing Climate Change Recent Episode of Environmental Insights Podcast Latest News Harvard Environmental Economics Program Awards Student Prizes for the 2021 – 2022 Academic Year May 17, 2022 CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS – The Harvard Environmental Economics Program (HEEP) has awarded three prizes to Harvard University students for the best research papers addressing a topic in environmental, energy, or natural-resource economics — one prize each for an undergraduate paper or senior thesis, master’s student paper, and doctoral student paper. Each prize was... Read more about Harvard Environmental Economics Program Awards Student Prizes for the 2021 – 2022 Academic Year Student Prizes for Academic Year 2021–2022 April 13, 2022 The Harvard Environmental Economics Program will award three prizes in May 2022 for the best research papers addressing topics in environmental, energy, and natural-resources economics: The deadline for receipt of submissions is Wednesday May 4th, at 12:00 PM (U.S./Canada ET). In the interest of fairness, there will be no exceptions with regard to the deadline. Winners will be announced by Thursday May 19, 2022. See attached flyer for more details. HEEP Director Robert Stavins Featured at “Top Environmental Economists,” January 2022 January 11, 2022 Professor Stavins is profiled and interviewed by Ingmar Schumacher, Professor of Economics at IPAG Business School in Paris, France, at website, “Top Environmental Economists,” including a brief video interview, and a much more extensive written version. A transcript of the extensive interview is available... Read more about HEEP Director Robert Stavins Featured at “Top Environmental Economists,” January 2022 More Learn about HEEP HEEP is a university-wide initiative addressing today's complex environmental challenges and is based in the Harvard Kennedy School’s Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government. Learn more by reading director Robert Stavins' welcome message. Environmental Insights Podcast Environmental Insights Podcast on Soundcloud Recent Publications Ramelli, Stefano, Alexander Wagner, Alexandre Ziegler, and Richard Zeckhauser. “Investor Rewards to Climate Responsibility: Stock-Price Responses to the Opposite Shocks of the 2016 and 2020 U.S. Elections.” Harvard Environmental Economics Program, 2021.Abstract dp_91_ramelli_et_al.pdf Donald Trump’s 2016 election and his nomination of climate skeptic Scott Pruitt to head the Environmental Protection Agency drastically downshifted expectations on U.S. policy toward climate change. Joseph Biden’s 2020 election shifted them dramatically upward. We study firms’ stock-price movements in reaction. As expected, the 2016 election boosted carbon-intensive firms. Surprisingly, firms with climate-responsible strategies also gained, especially those firms held by long-run investors. Such investors appear to have bet on a ‘‘boomerang’’ in climate policy. Harbingers of a boomerang already appeared during Trump’s term. The 2020 election marked its arrival. (JEL G14, G38, G41) Aldy, Joseph E., Giles Atkinson, and Matthew Kotchen. “Environmental Benefit-Cost Analysis: A Comparative Analysis Between the United States and the United Kingdom.” Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA: Harvard Environmental Economics Program, 2021.Abstract dp_90_aldy_et_al.pdf The United States and United Kingdom have longstanding traditions in use of environmental benefit-cost analysis (E-BCA). While there are similarities between how E-BCA is utilized, there are significant differences too, many of which mirror ongoing debates and recent developments in the literature on environmental and natural resource economics. We review the use of E-BCA in both countries across three themes: (a) the role of long-term discounting; (b) the estimation and use of carbon valuation; and, (c) the estimation and use of the value of a statistical life. In each case, we discuss how academic developments are (and are not) translated into use and draw comparative lessons. We find that, in some cases, practical differences in E-BCA can be overstated, although in others these seem more substantive. Advances in the academic frontier also raise the question of when and how to update practical E-BCA, with very different answers across our themes. Aldy, Joseph, Matthew Kotchen, Mary Evans, Meredith Fowlie, Arik Levinson, and Karen Palmer. “Co-Benefits and Regulatory Impact Analysis: Theory and Evidence from Federal Air Quality Regulations.” Discussion Paper (2021): 45.Abstract dp_89_aldy_et_al.pdf This paper considers the treatment of co-benefits in benefit-cost analysis of federal air quality regulations. Using a comprehensive data set on all major Clean Air Act rules issued by the Environmental Protection Agency over the period 1997-2019, we show that (1) co-benefits make up a significant share of the monetized benefits; (2) among the categories of co-benefits, those associated with reductions in fine particulate matter are the most significant; and (3) co-benefits have been pivotal to the quantified net benefit calculation in nearly half of cases. Motivated by these trends, we develop a simple conceptual framework that illustrates a critical point: co-benefits are simply a semantic category of benefits that should be included in benefit-cost analyses. We also address common concerns about whether the inclusion of co-benefits is problematic because of alternative regulatory approaches that may be more cost-effective and the possibility for double counting. More News from the Harvard Project on Climate Agreements HPCA Conversations on Climate Change and Energy Policy The Harvard Project on Climate Agreements is conducting a series of virtual forums addressing key issues in climate-change and related energy policy. Each forum will feature an expert guest and will be moderated by Robert Stavins, Director of the Harvard Project. We hope you can join us! Next Scheduled Event: TBD To access recordings and transcripts of past events, please go to the HPCA Conversations Series webpage. <embed> Iframe URL Embed code <script type="text/javascript" src="//heep.hks.harvard.edu/profiles/openscholar/modules/os/modules/os_boxes/misc/os_boxes.resize_parent.js"></script>
<iframe class="web-widgets-iframe" src="//heep.hks.harvard.edu/widget/embed/1593536555/iframe" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" width="100%"></iframe>
 Copy and paste this code to your website. Embed code https://heep.hks.harvard.edu/box/1593536555 Copy and paste this code to your website. Harvard Environmental Economics Program Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business & Government Harvard Kennedy School, Weil Hall 79 JFK Street Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 496-8054 heep@harvard.edu Subscribe to our mailing list Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement