Skip to main content Hellenic Studies Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu People Submenu Administration Submenu Executive Committee | Center Executive Committee | Program Librarians & Curators Staff Faculty Graduate Students Undergraduates Fellows & Visitors Submenu Postdoctoral Research Fellows Visiting Research Fellows Artists-in-Residence Writers-in-Residence Library Fellows Opportunities Submenu Faculty Graduate Student Undergraduates Postdoctoral Fellows Visiting Fellows Artists & Writers Research Submenu Publications Research in Progress Study Submenu Graduate Submenu Admissions Course of Study Certificate in Hellenic Studies Graduate Courses Undergraduate Submenu Admissions Undergraduate Courses Certificate in Hellenic Studies Senior Thesis Prize Winners News Submenu Announcements Feature Stories Events Submenu Past Events About Us SubMenu History Seeger Center for Hellenic Studies Program in Hellenic Studies Princeton Athens Center Contact Search Hellenic Studies The Seeger Center at Princeton University is an interdisciplinary community for the study of the Greek world from antiquity to the present. Content Opportunity Position: Senior Lecturer in Modern Greek Studies Content News Edmund Keeley (1928-2022) Content Princeton Athens Center Content Opportunity Summer Institute: “Intensive Ancient Greek” | Princeton Athens Center, June 1 - July 1, 2022 Content Publication New Rome: The Empire in the East Credit By Paul Stephenson Publisher Harvard University Press Publication Year 2022 Content Opportunity Summer Institute: “Intensive Modern Greek” | Princeton Athens Center, June 1 - July 1, 2022 Content Publication Radical Resilience: Athenian Topographies of Precarity and Possibility Credit By Othon Alexandrakis Publisher Cornell University Press Publication Year 2022 Content Opportunity Summer Institute: “Numismatics Seminar: Greece After Rome” | Princeton Athens Center, July 4 - 8, 2022 Content Publication The Slow Fall of Babel: Languages and Identities in Late Antique Christianity Credit By Yuliya Minets Publisher Cambridge University Press Publication Year 2021 Content Opportunity Summer Institute: “Greek Modernism on the Global Stage” | Princeton Athens Center, June 20 - July 1, 2022 Content Publication Heavenly Stories: Tiered Salvation in the New Testament and Ancient Christianity Credit By Alexander Kocar *15 Publisher University of Pennsylvania Press Publication Year 2021 Content News Center for Digital Humanities Announces Partnership with Seeger Center Content Publication Civic Identity and Civic Participation in Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages Credit Edited by Cédric Brélaz and Els Rose Publisher Brepols Publication Year 2021 Content News COURSES: FALL 2022 Content News Acquisition: Theodotou Collection of Byzantine Coins Upcoming Events No content available to show. All Events This summer, I had the opportunity to experience modern monastic life in a Byzantine Monastery, visit a number of historical sites of interest, work on my research, and most of all, improve my modern Greek abilities. Joseph Glynias, Graduate Student, History The Center promotes, maintains, and enhances an intimate linkage between scholarship, higher education, and global research communities with university resources for archives, museums, and special collections. In so doing, the Center plays a critical role in advancing the study of ancient and modern Greece in a transnational, cross-disciplinary and diachronic perspective. Lidia Santarelli, Metadata Librarian, Modern Greek Specialty One of the most exciting intellectual communities in Princeton—incorporating an extraordinary breadth and depth of disciplines rooted in Hellenic Studies. Marina S. Brownlee, Robert Schirmer Professor of Spanish and Portuguese and Comparative Literature Many appreciate coming to Princeton to conduct their research in our Center, and we enjoy learning from these scholars as well. Monique Joseph, Office Assistant The Seeger Center leaves an impression on its visitors and members that our goals and aspirations not only are possible, but within our reach. Nikitas Tampakis, Undergraduate Student, Class of 2014 A truly thriving place where many specialists in the field of Hellenic Studies with different backgrounds can develop their best their work and research. Anna Calia, Ted and Elaine Athanassiades Postdoctoral Research Fellow, 2017-2018 My home away from home and a center that connects people studying any aspects of the Hellenic world. Richard Calis, Graduate Student, History Thanks to the generosity of the Stanley J. Seeger Center for Hellenic Studies I had the chance to do research in Athens and Naxos from July 27 to August 7. During this time, I could visit several archaeological sites and museums, and get to know the geographical context of the archaeological remains… This offers the possibility of an interesting new line of investigation. Marc Domingo Gygax, Professor of Classics (on leave 2021-2022) The trip to the Mt Menoikeion Monastery was life-changing for me. It gave a new dimension of meaning to my work and to my life. Alex Baron-Raiffe, Graduate Student, French and Italian Seeger Center for Hellenic Studies Room 107, Scheide Caldwell House Princeton, NJ 08544 USA | Map it Office hours: 8:45 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. TEL (609) 258-3339 FAX (609) 258-2137 EMAIL hellenic@princeton.edu Facebook Princeton Athens Center Nancy Forti Program Manager Stanley J. Seeger '52 House 3 Timarchou Street 116 34 Athens, Greece | Map it Office Hours: 11:00 - 19:00 (Closed August) TEL +30 215 545 9689 EMAIL hellenic.athens@princeton.edu Subscribe to Newsletter Subscribe to receive information on upcoming events, application deadlines, and more. Subscribe Princeton University Privacy Policies Princeton University Privacy Notice Data Privacy (Office of the Registrar) Princeton University