Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Faculty Staff Help Center Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About Us Meet Our Staff Locations Contact Us Services Scope of Services Eligibility Facilitated Conversations Workshops and Discussions Resources Coping During COVID-19 Short Skills Based Videos Noon Time Workshops Work-Related Resources Leadership & Organizational Change Organizational Change & Stress Improving Writing Productivity Preventing Alcohol & Drug Abuse Coping with the Emotional Impact of a Layoff Coping with Traumatic Stress Serious Illness, Death and Grieving in the Workplace Maintaining a Discrimination - and Harassment-Free Environment Stanford Office and Programs Suggested Books Emergency Resources Forms Events Event Registration Request an Appointment The Stanford Faculty Staff Help Center Offering a variety of services for the Stanford community including confidential counseling, workshops, discussion groups, and facilitated conversations. Request an Appointment Main content start UPDATES! Resources For Support During Challenging Times | Short Skills Based Videos featuring Help Center clinicians guiding skill-based support | Postpartum Discussion Group | STARS Learning with Rosan Gomperts: Coaching for Emotional Intelligence | Emergency Resources listed on our main page Upcoming Events Jun 02 Meeting Connecting Within Your Stanford Community: Facilitated drop-in LGBTQ+ groups Thursday, June 2, 2022 | 10:00am - 10:50am PDT Jun 14 Lecture/Presentation/Talk Workplace Bullying: Causes, Consequences, and Cures Tuesday, June 14, 2022 | 12:00pm - 1:15pm PDT Jul 07 Meeting Connecting Within Your Stanford Community: Facilitated drop-in LGBTQ+ groups Thursday, July 7, 2022 | 10:00am - 10:50am PDT Services We offer a variety of services for the Stanford community including counseling, workshops, discussion groups, facilitated conversations, consultation and training, and retreat facilitation. All services are free of charge. Learn more about our services Meet Our Staff The Center is staffed by licensed clinical social workers, marriage and family therapists, psychologists, and experienced interns. Read More Get short-term help with... • Job-Related Issues • Relationship Issues • Parent-Child Concerns • Addiction issues • Grief and Loss • Depression and Anxiety • Retirement • Referral to Community Resources In addition, we provide Facilitated Conversations, Consultation, and Training as well as Discussion Groups and Workshops. Sign up for the Stanford Faculty Staff Center Mailing List! (for event listings, etc.) Eligibility You are eligible to use Faculty Staff Help Center services if you meet the outlined criteria. Read More Schedule an Appointment Fill out the online form to request an appointment with a counselor or therapist. View Form Emergency Resources Need help? View this list for access to police, crisis hotlines, and more. For on-campus emergencies, call 9-911. Read More Stanford Faculty Staff Help Center Web Login Address Faculty Staff Help Center Main Office 419 Lagunita Drive Suite 110 Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Campus Map Contact Us Explore Home Resources for Cardinal at Work (benefits) Office of the Ombuds SHARE Title IX Office Vaden Health Svcs (for students) Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top