Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Student Information Disclosures Menu Search Log In Home Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Student Information Disclosures UNL Consumer Information Disclosures The Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 (HEOA) requires that postsecondary institutions participating in federal student aid programs make certain disclosures to enrolled and prospective students, parents, employees, and the public. The following information is disclosed to you in compliance with federal law. For additional information, including requesting a paper copy of any materials, please call or e-mail the appropriate office or visit the indicated websites. Academic Programs and Institutional Information Information concerning UNL's current educational programs and course descriptions is available in the Undergraduate Bulletin and the Graduate Bulletin. These bulletins also include a listing of current faculty. Read more about Academic Programs and Institutional Information Academic Programs and Institutional Information Information concerning UNL's current educational programs and course descriptions is available in the Undergraduate Bulletin and the Graduate Bulletin. These bulletins also include a listing of current faculty. Information about campus facilities, including those that relate to instructional programs, is available through the campus map and in the UNL Fact Book. Contact: Office of the University Registrar registrar@unl.edu 402-472-3635 Accreditation Information concerning UNL's institutional and specialized accreditations is available in the UNL Fact Book (see “Accreditations” section). Following guidelines established by the University of Nebraska’s Board of Regents, all academic programs are assessed through a formal Program Review process on a regular basis. In addition to review of the programs, UNL continually reviews and assesses the educational programs through student outcomes assessment. Read more about Accreditation Accreditation Information concerning UNL's institutional and specialized accreditations is available in the UNL Fact Book (see “Accreditations” section). Following guidelines established by the University of Nebraska’s Board of Regents, all academic programs are assessed through a formal Program Review process on a regular basis. In addition to review of the programs, UNL continually reviews and assesses the educational programs through student outcomes assessment. Information regarding UNL's assessment of academic programs is also available. UNL is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. Information on UNL’s accreditation is also available. Contact: Office of Institutional Research & Planning unlirp2@unl.edu 402-472-2097 Code of Conduct for Financial Aid Administrators The University of Nebraska–Lincoln does not provide, and prohibits financial aid administrators and recruiters from receiving, incentive payment based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or financial aid to any individual or entity engaged in recruiting or admission activities, or in making decisions regarding the award of Federal Student Aid program funds. All UNL staff are held to a strict code of conduct governing the administration of student loans. These rules specifically govern activities involving our interactions with private lending institutions. Read more about Code of Conduct for Financial Aid Administrators Code of Conduct for Financial Aid Administrators The University of Nebraska–Lincoln does not provide, and prohibits financial aid administrators and recruiters from receiving, incentive payment based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or financial aid to any individual or entity engaged in recruiting or admission activities, or in making decisions regarding the award of Federal Student Aid program funds. All UNL staff are held to a strict code of conduct governing the administration of student loans. These rules specifically govern activities involving our interactions with private lending institutions. Read the full policy. Contact: Office of the Scholarships & Financial Aid financialaid@unl.edu 402-472-2030 College Navigator College Navigator is a free consumer information tool designed to help students, parents, high school counselors, and others search for and obtain information about U.S. postsecondary institutions. Read more about College Navigator College Navigator College Navigator is a free consumer information tool designed to help students, parents, high school counselors, and others search for and obtain information about U.S. postsecondary institutions. Enter the University of Nebraska–Lincoln as 'Name of School' to view UNL's College Navigator information. Contact: Confidentiality of Student Records and Student Health Records (FERPA and HIPAA) The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords students certain rights with respect to their education records. UNL publishes a FERPA notification that delineates student rights under FERPA. Read more about Confidentiality of Student Records and Student Health Records (FERPA and HIPAA) Confidentiality of Student Records and Student Health Records (FERPA and HIPAA) The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords students certain rights with respect to their education records. UNL publishes a FERPA notification that delineates student rights under FERPA. UNL information on confidentiality of student records is published in Undergraduate and the Graduate Bulletins. UNL is committed to protecting the privacy and security of personal health information concerning our employees and students. See the Health Center website for more information pertaining to the Privacy Practices of the University Health Center. Contact: Office of the University Registrar registrar@unl.edu 402-472-3635 University Health Center uhc@unl.edu 402-472-5000 Copyright Infringement and Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Policies and Sanctions Information regarding file sharing and copyright policies and resources at UNL is available at the Information Technology Services website. This includes information on the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) and individual rights and responsibilities. Read more about Copyright Infringement and Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Policies and Sanctions Copyright Infringement and Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Policies and Sanctions Information regarding file sharing and copyright policies and resources at UNL is available at the Information Technology Services website. This includes information on the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) and individual rights and responsibilities. Contact: Information Technology Services - Security security@unl.edu 402-472-5700 Cost of Attendance Information concerning the cost of attending UNL is available from the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid. These costs consist of tuition and fees, books and supplies, room and board, transportation, and any additional costs for a program in which the student is enrolled or expresses an interest. Read more about Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Information concerning the cost of attending UNL is available from the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid. These costs consist of tuition and fees, books and supplies, room and board, transportation, and any additional costs for a program in which the student is enrolled or expresses an interest. Contact: Office of the Scholarships & Financial Aid financialaid@unl.edu 402-472-2030 Crime Statistics, Campus Security Policies, Crime Log, and Fire Log Specific information regarding safety and security at UNL is provided in UNL’s Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report. This report contains crime and fire statistics for the previous three years regarding incidents that occurred on UNL property, including in residence facilities. Read more about Crime Statistics, Campus Security Policies, Crime Log, and Fire Log Crime Statistics, Campus Security Policies, Crime Log, and Fire Log Specific information regarding safety and security at UNL is provided in UNL’s Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report. This report contains crime and fire statistics for the previous three years regarding incidents that occurred on UNL property, including in residence facilities. The report also includes a list of resources available to crime victims, important policy statements, links to sex offender registries, tips on avoiding being a victim, how to report crimes and how reports are handled, campus resources and programs regarding safety/security & drugs/alcohol, campus disciplinary procedures, fire safety and evacuations, and other matters of importance related to the well-being of the campus community. Additional safety and emergency information can be found at: University Police website. UNL also maintains a Daily Crime & Fire Log of incidents occurring on UNL property, continuously updated. The log provides general information regarding incidents and does not include names or specific locations, such as residence hall room numbers. Contact: University Police unl.police@unl.edu 402-472-2222 Drug and Alcohol Policy UNL’s Drug Free Campus Policy includes the institution's drug/alcohol policy. The annual report also provides information about alcohol and other drug health risks, drug alcohol laws and penalties, and campus alcohol and other drug education and counseling resources. Read more about Drug and Alcohol Policy Drug and Alcohol Policy UNL’s Drug Free Campus Policy includes the institution's drug/alcohol policy. The annual report also provides information about alcohol and other drug health risks, drug alcohol laws and penalties, and campus alcohol and other drug education and counseling resources. Contact: University Police unl.police@unl.edu 402-472-2222 Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations Federal law provides that a student who has been convicted of an offense under any federal or state law involving the possession or sale of a controlled substance during a period of enrollment for which the student was receiving financial aid shall not be eligible to receive any federal or institutional grant, loan, or work assistance. There is a separate, written notice of the penalties for drug violations. Read more about Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations Federal law provides that a student who has been convicted of an offense under any federal or state law involving the possession or sale of a controlled substance during a period of enrollment for which the student was receiving financial aid shall not be eligible to receive any federal or institutional grant, loan, or work assistance. There is a separate, written notice of the penalties for drug violations. Contact: Office of the Scholarships & Financial Aid financialaid@unl.edu 402-472-2030 Financial Aid The Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid website includes information about the following: need-based and non-need-based federal, state, local, private, and institutional financial assistance programs available to students; eligibility requirements and procedures for applying for aid; criteria for selecting recipients and determining amount of award; methods and frequency of disbursements of aid; financial aid terms and conditions, including Read more about Financial Aid Financial Aid The Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid website includes information about the following: need-based and non-need-based federal, state, local, private, and institutional financial assistance programs available to students; eligibility requirements and procedures for applying for aid; criteria for selecting recipients and determining amount of award; methods and frequency of disbursements of aid; financial aid terms and conditions, including terms applicable to employment provided as part of a financial aid package; rights and responsibilities of students receiving Title IV, HEA loans; the availability of financial aid for study abroad programs; how financial aid is handled when students withdraw; and whom to contact for questions regarding financial aid; the terms and conditions of federal student loans; entrance and exit counseling information; and drug violation penalties. The retention rate for Pell Grant recipients and the code of conduct for financial aid employees is also listed. Contact: Office of the Scholarships & Financial Aid financialaid@unl.edu 402-472-2030 Financial Aid Calculator Students may use the financial aid calculator to find estimates for total cost of attendance and Financial Aid. Read more about Financial Aid Calculator Financial Aid Calculator Students may use the financial aid calculator to find estimates for total cost of attendance and Financial Aid. Contact: Office of the Scholarships & Financial Aid financialaid@unl.edu 402-472-2030 Graduation and Retention Rates (Student Right-to-Know Act) Graduation and retention rates for UNL full-time, degree-seeking, undergraduate students are available on the NCAA website (see “Search GSR by Sport, School, Conference and Year” section). Read more about Graduation and Retention Rates (Student Right-to-Know Act) Graduation and Retention Rates (Student Right-to-Know Act) Graduation and retention rates for UNL full-time, degree-seeking, undergraduate students are available on the NCAA website (see “Search GSR by Sport, School, Conference and Year” section). Contact: Office of Institutional Research & Planning unlirp2@unl.edu 402-472-2097 Graduation and Retention Rates for Student Athletes The Department of Athletics annually provides information available to the general public on: 1) UNL’s sport-by-sport Academic Progress rates; 2) Academic Progress rates for each head coach; 3) and the graduation rates for each sport. UNL’s information is available on the NCAA’s website. Read more about Graduation and Retention Rates for Student Athletes Graduation and Retention Rates for Student Athletes The Department of Athletics annually provides information available to the general public on: 1) UNL’s sport-by-sport Academic Progress rates; 2) Academic Progress rates for each head coach; 3) and the graduation rates for each sport. UNL’s information is available on the NCAA’s website. Contact: Department of Athletics unlathleticsprr@huskers.com 402-472-2273 Gun Policy University of Nebraska–Lincoln policy prohibits the possession of firearms, ammunition or other dangerous weapons on campus or in student housing. Students, Staff and Faculty are welcome to use our bins for weapon storage. Read more about Gun Policy Gun Policy University of Nebraska–Lincoln policy prohibits the possession of firearms, ammunition or other dangerous weapons on campus or in student housing. Students, Staff and Faculty are welcome to use our bins for weapon storage. Contact: University Police unl.police@unl.edu 402-472-2222 Identity Theft Prevention Policy As required by the FTC's Red Flags Rule, the University of Nebraska–Lincoln has established and maintains an Identity Theft Prevention Program. Information on the UNL prevention program is available on the University Bursar website. Read more about Identity Theft Prevention Policy Identity Theft Prevention Policy As required by the FTC's Red Flags Rule, the University of Nebraska–Lincoln has established and maintains an Identity Theft Prevention Program. Information on the UNL prevention program is available on the University Bursar website. Contact: University Bursar bursar@unl.edu 402-472-1734 Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data In compliance with the Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act, the Department of Athletics publishes information on men's and women's athletic programs at UNL. The EADA report includes the number of participants by gender for each team, operating and recruiting expenses, coaches' salaries, revenues, and athletically related student aid. Read more about Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data In compliance with the Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act, the Department of Athletics publishes information on men's and women's athletic programs at UNL. The EADA report includes the number of participants by gender for each team, operating and recruiting expenses, coaches' salaries, revenues, and athletically related student aid. Contact: Department of Athletics unlathleticsprr@huskers.com 402-472-2273 Missing Student Policy and Notification Procedures The Annual Campus Security and Safety Report contains UNL's missing student policy and notification procedures, as well as specific procedures to be followed when an UNL student has been reported missing. The report also outlines how students can submit emergency contact and missing person contact information. Upon notification, UNL Police will initiate an investigation into any missing person. Read more about Missing Student Policy and Notification Procedures Missing Student Policy and Notification Procedures The Annual Campus Security and Safety Report contains UNL's missing student policy and notification procedures, as well as specific procedures to be followed when an UNL student has been reported missing. The report also outlines how students can submit emergency contact and missing person contact information. Upon notification, UNL Police will initiate an investigation into any missing person. Contact: University Police unl.police@unl.edu 402-472-2222 Placement of Graduates The Office of Career Services collects and publishes information on the Annual Report of UNL Graduates. Six-month post-graduation survey statistics include information on the placement of and types of employment, professional and graduate schools for UNL graduates. Read more about Placement of Graduates Placement of Graduates The Office of Career Services collects and publishes information on the Annual Report of UNL Graduates. Six-month post-graduation survey statistics include information on the placement of and types of employment, professional and graduate schools for UNL graduates. Contact: Office of Career Services careerservices@unl.edu 402-472-3145 Refund Policy and Return of Title IV, HEA Financial Aid Requirements for return of Title IV, HEA grant or loan aid are available on the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid website. Read more about Refund Policy and Return of Title IV, HEA Financial Aid Refund Policy and Return of Title IV, HEA Financial Aid Requirements for return of Title IV, HEA grant or loan aid are available on the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid website. As required by the FTC's Red Flags Rule, UNL has established and will maintain an Identity Theft Prevention Program. Information on the UNL prevention program is available on Human Resources’ Red Flag Rule website. Contact: Office of the Scholarships & Financial Aid financialaid@unl.edu 402-472-2030 Requirements for Withdrawal If a student withdraws or drops a course, UNL will adhere to its refund policy as published in the Undergraduate and the Graduate Bulletins. The Catalog also contains information regarding the requirements and procedures for students seeking to withdraw officially. Read more about Requirements for Withdrawal Requirements for Withdrawal If a student withdraws or drops a course, UNL will adhere to its refund policy as published in the Undergraduate and the Graduate Bulletins. The Catalog also contains information regarding the requirements and procedures for students seeking to withdraw officially. Contact: Office of the University Registrar registrar@unl.edu 402-472-3635 Services for Students with Disabilities The Office of Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) provides disability-related information and referrals for UNL students, determines eligibility for services and facilitates reasonable accommodations, coordinates disability-related technical assistance and auxiliary aids/services, and provides advocacy and training. Read more about Services for Students with Disabilities Services for Students with Disabilities The Office of Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) provides disability-related information and referrals for UNL students, determines eligibility for services and facilitates reasonable accommodations, coordinates disability-related technical assistance and auxiliary aids/services, and provides advocacy and training. Visit the Office of Services for Students with Disabilities homepage for additional information on services and resources available to students with disabilities. Contact: Office of Services for Students with Disabilities vcheney2@unl.edu 402-472-3787 Social Security Number Policy The use of SSN as an identification number within UNL is limited to those uses permitted by law. To protect the privacy of persons whose SSN is collected, all university offices follow procedures in the University's Social Security Number Policy, available on the Information Technology Services website. Read more about Social Security Number Policy Social Security Number Policy The use of SSN as an identification number within UNL is limited to those uses permitted by law. To protect the privacy of persons whose SSN is collected, all university offices follow procedures in the University's Social Security Number Policy, available on the Information Technology Services website. Contact: Information Technology Services - Security security@unl.edu 402-472-5700 Student Body Diversity Information about student body diversity is provided in the UNL Fact Book (see “Fall Enrollment” and “Spring Enrollment” sections). Read more about Student Body Diversity Student Body Diversity Information about student body diversity is provided in the UNL Fact Book (see “Fall Enrollment” and “Spring Enrollment” sections). Contact: Office of Institutional Research & Planning unlirp2@unl.edu 402-472-2097 Student Code of Conduct University students are both citizens and members of the academic community. As members of the academic community, students are subject to the obligations which accrue to them by virtue of this membership. As members of the larger community of which the University is part, students are entitled to all the rights and protections enjoyed by other members of that community. By the same token, students are also subject to all civil laws, the enforcement of which is the responsibility of duly constituted civil authorities. Read more about Student Code of Conduct Student Code of Conduct University students are both citizens and members of the academic community. As members of the academic community, students are subject to the obligations which accrue to them by virtue of this membership. As members of the larger community of which the University is part, students are entitled to all the rights and protections enjoyed by other members of that community. By the same token, students are also subject to all civil laws, the enforcement of which is the responsibility of duly constituted civil authorities. When a student violates a University regulation, he/she is subject to disciplinary action by the University whether or not his/her conduct violates civil law. Contact: Office of the Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs studentaffairs@unl.edu 402-472-3755 Teacher Education Statistics Title II of the Higher Education Act requires annual reports on the pass rates of their graduates on state certification assessments and other program data. The UNL University Teacher Education Program publishes an annual report on this topic. Read more about Teacher Education Statistics Teacher Education Statistics Title II of the Higher Education Act requires annual reports on the pass rates of their graduates on state certification assessments and other program data. The UNL University Teacher Education Program publishes an annual report on this topic. The U. S. Department of Education also publishes an annual Title II report for the state of Nebraska that summarizes data collected under the federal Higher Education Act. Entries describing the UNL Teacher Education program enrollment, requirements, and assessment pass rates are clearly described in each section of this report. Contact: College of Education & Human Sciences bdoll2@unl.edu 402-472-2238 Textbook Information / Required Course Materials The online UNL Schedule of Classes includes a link to textbook and required materials for each course as soon as the information is available for a given term. Textbook information is also available directly from the University Bookstore website. Read more about Textbook Information / Required Course Materials Textbook Information / Required Course Materials The online UNL Schedule of Classes includes a link to textbook and required materials for each course as soon as the information is available for a given term. Textbook information is also available directly from the University Bookstore website. Contact: Office of the University Registrar registrar@unl.edu 402-472-3635 University Bookstore unlbookstore@bkstr.com 402-472-7300 Transfer of Credit and Articulation Agreements Transfer of credit policies are published in the Undergraduate Bulletin. UNL has purchased a subscription to Transferology™, a web-based network of transfer credit information, which is free to students. Students can enter their courses in Transferology™ to see how credits from a community college or another university may transfer to a particular degree program at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Read more about Transfer of Credit and Articulation Agreements Transfer of Credit and Articulation Agreements Transfer of credit policies are published in the Undergraduate Bulletin. UNL has purchased a subscription to Transferology™, a web-based network of transfer credit information, which is free to students. Students can enter their courses in Transferology™ to see how credits from a community college or another university may transfer to a particular degree program at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Some additional course-to-course equivalents may be found on the Transfer Course Equivalency list. Contact: Undergraduate Education Programs creditevaluation@unl.edu 402-472-9455 University Nondiscrimination Statement The University of Nebraska–Lincoln does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Read the full non-discrimination statement. Read more about University Nondiscrimination Statement University Nondiscrimination Statement The University of Nebraska–Lincoln does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran. Read the full non-discrimination statement. Contact: Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance equity2@unl.edu 402-472-3417 Vaccination Policies The University of Nebraska–Lincoln follows the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's recommendation for immunizations. Specific information on vaccinations is published on the health center's recommended immunizations page. Read more about Vaccination Policies Vaccination Policies The University of Nebraska–Lincoln follows the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's recommendation for immunizations. Specific information on vaccinations is published on the health center's recommended immunizations page. Contact: University Health Center uhc@unl.edu 402-472-5000 Voter Registration Information on voting in local, state, and federal elections, including a copy of the Nebraska voter registration application form, may be accessed at the Nebraska Secretary of State website. Read more about Voter Registration Voter Registration Information on voting in local, state, and federal elections, including a copy of the Nebraska voter registration application form, may be accessed at the Nebraska Secretary of State website. Contact: Office of the Secretary of the State of Nebraska sos.elect@nebraska.gov 402-471-2555 Jump to Academic Programs and Institutional Information Accreditation Code of Conduct for Financial Aid Administrators College Navigator Confidentiality of Student Records and Student Health Records (FERPA and HIPAA) Copyright Infringement and Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Policies and Sanctions Cost of Attendance Crime Statistics, Campus Security Policies, Crime Log, and Fire Log Drug and Alcohol Policy Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations Financial Aid Financial Aid Calculator Graduation and Retention Rates (Student Right-to-Know Act) Graduation and Retention Rates for Student Athletes Gun Policy Identity Theft Prevention Policy Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data Missing Student Policy and Notification Procedures Placement of Graduates Refund Policy and Return of Title IV, HEA Financial Aid Requirements for Withdrawal Services for Students with Disabilities Social Security Number Policy Student Body Diversity Student Code of Conduct Teacher Education Statistics Textbook Information / Required Course Materials Transfer of Credit and Articulation Agreements University Nondiscrimination Statement Vaccination Policies Voter Registration University of Nebraska-Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 402-472-7211 Related Links Office of the Chancellor Institutional Research and Planning Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.