Skip to main content Division of Academic and Student Affairs Department of Health and Exercise Studies Menu Close About Us Faculty and Staff Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Isaac Frank Ormond, III Memorial Scholarship Fund Talk 8 at NC State Podcast Courses Minor Programs Coaching Education Minor Dance Minor Health Minor Outdoor Leadership Minor Sports Science Minor Take 8 at NC State Give Now About Us About Us Faculty and Staff Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Isaac Frank Ormond, III Memorial Scholarship Fund Talk 8 at NC State Podcast Courses Courses Minor Programs Minor Programs Coaching Education Minor Dance Minor Health Minor Outdoor Leadership Minor Sports Science Minor Take 8 at NC State Take 8 at NC State Give Now Health and Exercise Studies Build and sustain a healthy body and mind when you join the Pack. We’re educating a globally diverse NC State population regarding the benefits of living a healthy and physically active lifestyle by providing equal opportunities and professional preparation in sport, fitness, health, and recreation. Facts and History Explore interesting HES facts and learn more about the department’s history. READ MORE Connect with Us Meet our faculty and staff, and reach out with any questions you may have. READ MORE Minor Programs Check out our five minor programs and find the one that’s right for you. LEARN MORE ncstatehes #ThrowbackThursday 🔙 Did you know that the Dep Good Morning Wolfpack! ☀️🐺 How are you kic Kylie McDaniel and Johnny Paliotti were recently n Meet Cameron Murray 👋🏼 Cam is a recent NC Load More... HES News Read more news Kylie McDaniel and Johnny Paliotti Receive Isaac Frank Ormond Scholarship The Isaac Frank Ormond, III Memorial Scholarship Fund is awarded each year to students enrolled in a health and exercise studies minor who demonstrate a strong academic standing and consistent commitment to the health and exercise field. Beth Wright Fath Named a 2022-23 Provost’s Faculty Fellow During her fellowship, Fath will work on the project, “Decolonizing and Degendering Courses and Curriculum.” HES Faculty Honored with NC State Teaching Awards Tommy Holden and Kari Lewis receive university teaching awards for their commitment to educational excellence. HES Faculty Honored with NC State Teaching Awards Tommy Holden and Kari Lewis receive university teaching awards for their commitment to educational excellence. Read More… Take 8 at NC state Here’s the challenge! Be academically and physically fit when you leave NC State! Once you’ve completed your fourth HES class, you’ll qualify to receive a free Take 8 at NC State water bottle. After you’ve completed your eighth HES class, come to 1170 Wellness and Recreation Center, and claim your free Take 8 at NC State T-shirt to commemorate your accomplishment! Giving Giving When you give to the Department of Health and Exercise Studies, you assist us in creating exceptional learning experiences and opportunities for our students. Visit the link below to learn how to contribute to the Health and Exercise Studies Enhancement Fund. Give to Health and Exercise Studies Department of Health and Exercise Studies Home 1170 Wellness and Recreation Center 2611 Cates Avenue Campus Box 8111 Raleigh, NC 27695-8111 919.515.3361 Directions Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.