COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Health Packing Lunches for Work or School May 27, 2022 | Food, Health, Safe Handling Reasons to Pack a Lunch Every day millions of people across the country pack a lunch to take to work or school for three primary reasons: economics; nutrition and weight management. Economics:... National Women’s Health Week May 11, 2022 | Health, Tasty Bites Mother’s Day is the kickoff to National Women’s Health Week each year. The initiative encourages women and girls to make their health a priority. The CDC has found that women make up two... More Broccoli, Please! Mar 22, 2022 | Food, Health Helping Kids Like Vegetables Parents and children seem to have more struggles over vegetables than any other food. Vegetables should be offered in the same matter-of-fact way that all other foods... Toxoplasmosis Mar 22, 2022 | Food, Health What is Toxoplasmosis? A single-celled protozoan parasite called Toxoplasma gondii causes the disease known as toxoplasmosis. Toxoplasmosis is the 2nd leading cause of death from foodborne illness... Fast Food & Take-Out Meals Mar 18, 2022 | Food, Health Are you looking for meals on the run to fit your family’s busy lifestyle? Fast food restaurants, take-out, and delivered food can provide quick, flavorful meals so that you can spend your time on... Stocking the Home Pantry for Quick Meals Mar 15, 2022 | Food, Health The two keys to making quick, healthy meals and snacks are to keep a well-stocked kitchen and to spend a few minutes planning meals every week. Buy foods you can make and serve when time is limited.... Health Extension for Diabetes Mar 9, 2022 | Health, Tasty Bites Even though a diabetes diagnosis might be intimidating, it is possible to live a normal and healthy life with diabetes, but learning proper diabetes management and beneficial lifestyle changes is... Fiber Aug 13, 2021 | Food, Health Fiber is a complex carbohydrate that comes from the edible parts of plants, including vegetables, fruits, grains, and legumes. There is no dietary fiber in meat or dairy products. Fiber, which... Fiber & Food Labels Aug 13, 2021 | Food, Health Dietary fiber is listed on the Nutrition Facts panel on most packaged food products. Nutrition Facts labels list goals for Americans as 25 grams of dietary fiber per day for a 2,000-calorie diet and... Nutrient Claims on Food Labels Jul 23, 2021 | Food, Health Are you familiar with the label language on food products in the grocery store? The label on a can of pears says there is “no added sugar.” The words on a milk carton boast that it is... Potassium Jul 23, 2021 | Food, Health Healthy people seldom have problems getting enough potassium if they eat a varied diet. But for those who are sick, with vomiting and diarrhea, potassium losses can become severe. People with... Leafy Green Basics Jul 23, 2021 | Food, Fruits & Vegetables, Health Buying & Storing Greens When selecting greens for cooking, remember they cook down considerably, by one-quarter or more, from their original volume. Wrap fresh greens in damp paper toweling,... 1 2 3 … 14 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest