COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Problems Pesticide Waste Disposal Oct 11, 2021 | Entomology, Problems, Safe Handling Before using any pesticide, it is essential to read the entire product label. The label has key safety instructions to protect the applicator before, during, and after pesticide use. Directions for... Pesticide Safety Oct 11, 2021 | Entomology, Problems, Safe Handling Pesticides are chemicals used to kill, repel, or control organisms which are considered pests. Pesticides include insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, rodenticides, disinfectants, and many other... Rose Insects & Related Pests Jul 30, 2021 | Entomology, Landscape, Problems, Shrubs With their showy and often fragrant blooms, roses are easily one of the most popular flowering plants grown in South Carolina. Unfortunately, the numerous insects and related pests that attack them... Sweet Potato & Irish Potato Insects Jul 15, 2021 | Entomology, Fruits & Vegetables, Problems, Vegetables Wireworms Several kinds of wireworms feed on sweet potatoes as well as on Irish potatoes. The southern potato wireworm (Conoderus falli) is injurious in the Southeastern United States. Adults (click... Emerald Ash Borer May 6, 2021 | Entomology, Problems, Trees The emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis, EAB) is a non-native forest pest known for its bright green color, devastating impacts on the environment, and massive economic cost.It was first... Bean & Southern Pea Insect Pests May 5, 2021 | Entomology, Fruits & Vegetables, Problems Major Seedling Feeders Aphids: Aphids (Aphis species and Macrosiphum euphorbiae) are soft-bodied “plant lice,” about 1/16 to 1/8 inch in length and are usually green, although some species are... Insect Pests of Sweet Corn May 3, 2021 | Entomology, Fruits & Vegetables, Problems, Vegetables Cutworms Cutworms damage a few plants in most gardens every year, but some gardens are so heavily infested as to warrant control by the grower. Bottomland (low-lying land, creek bottoms, etc.) is... Boxwood Diseases & Insect Pests Feb 26, 2021 | Entomology, Landscape, Problems, Shrubs Boxwoods (Buxus spp.) are adapted to a wide range of light conditions and prefer fertile, moist, well-drained soil, which is amended with organic matter. For information on species, varieties, and... Black Twig Borer Feb 23, 2021 | Entomology, Problems, Trees Black Twig Borer (Xylosandrus compactus) is a species of a scolytid beetle and is one of the few ambrosia beetles that will infest healthy or stressed plants. The adult beetle is solid black, shiny,... Asian Longhorned Beetle Jan 8, 2021 | Entomology, Problems The Asian longhorned beetle (ALB) is a large, striking insect that is black with white spots, 1 to 1 ½” long, has long black and white striped antennae and bluish feet. This beetle is in the family... Eggplant Insect Pests & Diseases Aug 25, 2020 | Entomology, Problems Insect Pests Aphids and Whiteflies Aphids and whiteflies both have piercing, sucking mouthparts used to suck the sap out of eggplant leaves and stems. Both pests are primarily found on the... Importance of Reducing Mosquito Breeding Sites Jul 29, 2020 | Entomology, Problems Background South Carolina is home to at least 61 different species of mosquitos, providing a food source for birds, fishes, frogs, bats, and other animals. Mosquitos are close relatives of flies in... 1 2 3 … 6 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest