COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Why You Should Aerate Your Lawn Jun 3, 2021 | Print Aeration is a cultural practice that does not need to be done often but can provide immense benefits for your lawn. Soil is comprised of minerals, organic matter, and the spaces in between those particles. The spaces in between the particles hold water and air. Ideally, soil will have a relatively equal number of small pores that hold water and larger pores that hold oxygen. When soil is crushed, the spaces in between the particles get smaller, and the soil becomes compacted. Parking your vehicle on the lawn, heavy rainfall events, and even persistent walking by pets can lead to soil compaction. Heavy clay soils are easily compacted, but even lighter sandy soils can develop compaction. Soil compaction negatively affects turfgrasses. It limits the amount of oxygen accessible to the root system. Soil oxygen is needed to break down the sugars created by photosynthesis and generate energy for growth. Reduced soil oxygen also impacts water and nutrient uptake. Centipede and St. Augustine do not tolerate compaction and become thin and patchy. Zoysia and Bermuda are more tolerant of compaction, but all warm-season grasses can develop diseases associated with compacted soil conditions. Centipede grass suffering from compaction. Jackie Jordan, ©2021, Clemson Extension Core aeration is the practice of pulling 2–3-inch cores out of the soil. Solid-tine aeration is not as beneficial because it pushes soil to the side and below the solid tines and increases compaction. Core aeration offers several benefits for home lawns. It reduces soil compaction, fuels turfgrass growth, helps limit the development of large patch and other diseases, and can also help control thatch. Thatch is the layer of dead plant parts between the soil and the actively growing grass, and it needs to be managed in some turfgrasses. A thatch layer that is up to ½ inch thick can benefit lawns. It provides cushion and resiliency, but it can be detrimental to turfgrasses when the thatch layer becomes thicker. For more information on thatch, please see HGIC 2360, Controlling Thatch in Lawns. Thatch accumulates more quickly on compacted soils. Core aeration increases the activity of soil microorganisms that feed on the thatch, plus the cores can be left and watered back into the grass to introduce those microorganisms to the top of the thatch layer. Core aeration should be done during the growing season at least once a year for heavy soils and as needed for lighter soils. For more information on aeration, please see HGIC 1200, Aerating Lawns. Thatch layer in Bermuda lawn. Jackie Jordan, ©2021, Clemson Extension If this document didn’t answer your questions, please contact HGIC at hgic@clemson.edu or 1-888-656-9988. Author(s) Jackie Jordan, Commercial Horticulture Agent, Fairfield, Kershaw, and Richland County, Clemson Extension, Clemson University Was this helpful? Yes No What can we improve?Close comments window Submit What did you like most?Close comments window Submit PreviousWhat is it? Wednesday NextSC Fruit and Vegetable Field Report June 1, 2021 Related Posts Autumn Roadside Wildflowers September 3, 2018 Figs are Ripening August 27, 2018 Fall Webworms September 13, 2019 How to Tell the Difference Between Goldenrod and Ragweed September 10, 2018 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest 2 Share This Facebook Twitter Pinterest Gmail Like