COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Landscaping Salt Tolerant Plants for the South Carolina Coast Apr 15, 2022 | Landscape, Landscaping, Water Salt exposure is just one of the many environmental factors that makes coastal landscaping challenging. Selecting plants that are tolerant to salt exposure will increase the rate of success.... Cleome or Spider Flower Jan 21, 2022 | Flowers, Landscape, Landscaping An easily grown annual native to South America, cleome (Cleome hassleriana synonym C. pungens, C. spinosa) is a favorite in Southern gardens. The delicate pink, rose, purple, white, or bicolor... Shorescaping Freshwater Shorelines Sep 14, 2021 | Landscape, Landscaping, Water Shorescapes South Carolina is blessed to have an abundance of water resources in the form of rivers, lakes, ponds, and estuaries, and many residents own properties that adjoin these beautiful... Herbicide Damage to Landscape Plants Aug 27, 2021 | Annuals, Landscape, Landscaping, Problems Using herbicides to control weeds or other undesirable plants is a common practice in many integrated pest management (IPM) strategies. However, improper application methods and drift of herbicides... Hydrangea Jan 26, 2021 | Landscaping, Shrubs Hydrangea macrophylla, also called bigleaf or French hydrangea, typically has either pink or blue flowers, although a few cultivars have white flowers. Flower color is determined indirectly by the... Tree Maintenance Jan 21, 2021 | Landscape, Landscaping, Trees Tree Establishment The length of time for the establishment of a tree depends on the original tree size and the growing conditions after planting. All trees experience transplant shock regardless of... Miniature Gardens: A Story to Tell Jul 20, 2020 | Landscaping People have varied interests in gardening. For the more serious gardeners, it often involves directed planting and labor to produce desirable vegetables, fruits, or flowers. For some people,... Plants that Tolerate Drought Nov 25, 2019 | Landscape, Landscaping These plants are drought tolerant once established. All plants need water while establishing their root system and during periods of extended drought. Root establishment can take from one to several... Soil Texture Analysis “The Jar Test” Feb 11, 2019 | Landscape, Landscaping Soil is a medium comprised of soil particles, organic matter, water, air and living organisms, all of which are important to the overall health of the soil and the plants that grow in it. The three... Landscape Tree Decline Nov 7, 2018 | Landscape, Landscaping, Trees Landscape tree decline may be a combination of several biotic, environmental & chemical factors that slowly kill trees. If stresses add up, trees may go into decline. Stressed trees are more apt... Spice Up Your Landscape with Annual Color Jun 4, 2018 | Flowering, Landscaping The addition of annual color will add interest to your summer landscape. Annuals may be used in containers, window boxes, hanging baskets, or planted in landscape beds. In choosing which annuals to... Plants for Shade May 2, 2018 | Landscape, Landscaping Plants that will tolerate more shade are designated with an *. Trees (Botanical Name – Common Name) Most shade tolerant trees are small, understory trees that grow naturally in woods openings... 1 2 3 … 6 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest