COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Lawns Reading A Fertilizer Label May 27, 2022 | Landscape, Lawns Before you purchase a fertilizer, read and understand the label to choose the right one. While commercially available fertilizers vary in the amount of nutrients contained in the bag and the content... How to Tell the Difference Between Moles & Voles Apr 15, 2022 | Landscape, Lawns, Problems It is important to know the difference between mole and vole damage to the landscape. One way to distinguish the difference is by the diet of each animal. Moles “M” are meat-eaters, and their diet... Brown Patch & Large Patch Diseases of Lawns Sep 10, 2021 | Landscape, Lawns, Problems Introduction Brown patch and large patch are probably the most common and damaging diseases of cool-season and warm-season turfgrasses, respectively, in South Carolina. The beauty of all South... Leaf Diseases of Lawns Sep 10, 2021 | Landscape, Lawns Several fungal leaf diseases may commonly occur in South Carolina home lawns, including dollar spot, rust, gray leaf spot, powdery mildew, anthracnose, and Helminthosporium leaf spot. Most of the... Plan Winter Weed Control Now Sep 6, 2021 | In the Garden, Lawns, Weed It still feels like summer, but it is already time to start thinking about winter weed control. Annual winter weeds germinate late summer through fall and slowly grow during the winter months. They... Armyworms Sep 2, 2021 | Lawns, Problems The fall armyworm (Spodotera frugiperda) is the caterpillar species most commonly associated with foliar damage seen on turfgrasses, such as bermudagrass (Cynodon dactylon) and tall fescue (Festuca... Dogfennel Aug 27, 2021 | Landscape, Lawns, Weed Dogfennel (Eupatorium capillifolium) is a tall annual or short-lived perennial plant native to North America. Typically, this plant has densely hairy stems that arise from a woody crown. Leaves are... Doveweed Aug 27, 2021 | Lawns, Weed Doveweed (Murdannia nudiflora) has become a troublesome weed in home lawns during the last few years. It is a summer annual weed, and its seeds germinate during the late spring when soil... White Clover Aug 20, 2021 | Landscape, Lawns, Problems White clover (Trifolium repens), also known as Dutch clover, is a cool-season perennial that is often found growing in patches along roadsides, pastures, and lawns. It is a low-growing plant with... Lawn Burweed Aug 20, 2021 | Landscape, Lawns, Problems Nothing designates spring’s arrival like walking barefoot on a lawn of lush, green grass. This pleasant experience can often turn into a painful, sticky situation with the presence of lawn burweed.... Cogongrass Aug 20, 2021 | Landscape, Lawns, Problems Cogongrass (Imperata cylindrica) is one of the world’s ten worst weeds and has already invaded 153 billion acres worldwide. Cogongrass is becoming established in Florida, Georgia, Alabama,... Henbit Aug 13, 2021 | Landscape, Lawns, Problems Description Henbit (Lamium amplexicaule) is a sparsely hairy, winter annual weed with greenish to purplish, tender, square stems. Its opposite leaves are broadly egg shaped with bluntly toothed... 1 2 3 … 6 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest