COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Hot Topics Cultural Management of Tomato Diseases Aug 8, 2019 | Hot Topics There is nothing quite like going out to your garden for a truly “vine-ripe” tomato. Some years it seems to take forever to bite into that first homegrown beauty. There are several tomato diseases... Non-Intentionally Added Substances (NIAS) From Food Packaging to Food (The Cereal Box Case) Aug 1, 2019 | Hot Topics Introduction With growing concerns about the effects of plastics on human health, it is important for everyday consumers to be aware of the potential for NIAS (non-intentionally added substances) in... How Advancements in Packaging Can Reduce Food Waste Jul 2, 2019 | Hot Topics By 2050 it has been estimated that the population on Earth will grow by 33% to total 9.6 billion people [1]. More people on this planet means a higher demand for food. Currently, one-third of food... Reducing Herbicide Damage in the Landscape Jul 1, 2019 | Hot Topics Each year, homeowners and gardeners turn to herbicides to combat weeds in their lawns and gardens. Occasionally, herbicides may cause unintended damage to plants in the landscape. This can occur... Watch Out For Squash Vine Borers Jun 3, 2019 | Hot Topics While growing your own vegetables can be quite rewarding, it can also be frustrating, especially when a lush squash plant seems to up and die in a matter of a few days. If you’ve ever attempted to... Donor Human Milk: Is it beneficial? Jun 3, 2019 | Hot Topics Human milk offers advantages to all newborns, but particularly benefits low birth weight, premature infants. When infants are born premature and at a low birth weight they are at higher risk for... Deer Resistant Plants for the Landscape –Annuals & Perennials May 1, 2019 | Hot Topics It is disheartening to add new annual and perennial plants to the landscape only to find them mowed to the ground by resident wildlife. Many gardeners struggle with deer eating their plants. While... The Detox Tea Trend May 1, 2019 | Hot Topics Social media is full of unsolicited advice on health and lifestyle. Trending recently is consuming detox drinks to lose weight. These drinks are often promoted by celebrities, and aggressively... Is Using Wild Yeast Such A Wild Thought? Apr 1, 2019 | Hot Topics Yeast plays an important role in making bread and producing alcoholic beverages such as beer, wine, and mead. It is important to note, however, that not all yeast is the same. Large companies... Importance of Reducing Mosquito Breeding Sites Apr 1, 2019 | Hot Topics Background South Carolina is home to over 50 different species of mosquitos, providing a food source for birds, fishes, frogs, bats, and other animals. Mosquitoes are close relatives of flies in the... Let Me Google That: Finding Valid Health and Wellness Information Online Mar 1, 2019 | Hot Topics The internet has made information available and accessible to everyone like never before. The great equalizer: anyone can post online and anyone can learn about anything. All of this access allows... Drying Up Root and Crown Rot Pathogens Mar 1, 2019 | Hot Topics There is an old saying, “too much or too little water can kill or harm plants”. This simple statement speaks volumes in understanding plant disease prevention. Most plants can be affected by some... 1 2 3 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest