COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Summer Shopping at Farmers Markets May 31, 2022 | Print Summertime is upon us, and here in South Carolina, that means garden-fresh tomatoes, sweet corn, and watermelon until our bellies ache. However, if we haven’t planned a vegetable garden like THIS, where can we find all of this delicious produce? During the summer season, farmers markets can be found sprouting up throughout the state, where shoppers can buy in-season, nutritious produce while supporting local farmers. To help make the most out of your next farmers market trip, explore the following tips: Farmers Market Finds Emily Sweatt, ©2022, Clemson Extension Plan a Family Field Trip Load up the kiddos and head to the farmers market for a summer field trip to learn about agriculture, nutrition, and economy all in one! Encourage each child to choose one fruit or vegetable and find out how it is grown and harvested. Have them take pictures of a variety of produce to research the vitamins and minerals they contain once back at home. For a fun game, give the kids each a budget to spend on a certain fruit or vegetable and see who comes closest (without going over!) to that amount when their produce is weighed at check out. Be Adventurous Farmers markets are a great place for finding and trying new things! Each vendor you pass by has something different to offer. In a 2019 study, only 10.2% of South Carolinians reported meeting their recommended daily vegetable intake, which is generally 2 to 4 cups of vegetables per day. Be adventurous by taking a step out of your comfort zone to buy a small amount of that one vegetable you’re not so sure about (maybe…Brussels sprouts?) and give it a try! You may find yourself returning just in search of that one item. Save, Support, Score Take advantage of reduced-price produce by giving those ready-to-eat peaches, plums, or peppers new life! In addition to saving money, you’ll be supporting the environment by preventing food waste. In the National Farmers Market Manager Survey from 2019, it is reported that 39.6% of vendors at farmers markets had the opportunity to sell imperfect and undesirable produce, which in turn helped prevent food waste. Now, the only question left is…what recipe are you making with all the produce you scored? For more farmers market tips, follow along on Facebook @ClemsonHealthExtension for our ‘Farmers Market Friday’ series, where we’ll feature a new tip each Friday. References: Lee, S. H., Moore, L. V., Park, S., Harris, D. M., & Blanck. H. M. (2022). Adults meeting fruit and vegetable intake recommendations – United States, 2019. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 71(1), 1-9. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/71/wr/pdfs/mm7101a1-H.pdf U.S. Department of Agriculture and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (2020). Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020-2025 (9th ed.). https://www.dietaryguidelines.gov/sites/default/files/2021-03/Dietary_Guidelines_for_Americans-2020-2025.pdf U.S. Department of Agriculture. (n.d.). [Infographic representing Vendor Benefits found in the 2019 National Farmers Market Managers Survey]. Retrieved May 25, 2022, from https://www.ams.usda.gov/sites/default/files/media/NationalFamersMarketManagersSurveyVendorBenefits.png If this document didn’t answer your questions, please contact HGIC at hgic@clemson.edu or 1-888-656-9988. Author(s) Emily Sweatt, Rural Health and Nutrition Extension Agent, Cooperative Extension, Clemson University Was this helpful? Yes No What can we improve?Close comments window Submit What did you like most?Close comments window Submit PreviousMay 30 Week 5 Garden Photos Related Posts Autumn Roadside Wildflowers September 3, 2018 Figs are Ripening August 27, 2018 Fall Webworms September 13, 2019 How to Tell the Difference Between Goldenrod and Ragweed September 10, 2018 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest Share This Facebook Twitter Pinterest Gmail Like