COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page SC Fruit and Vegetable Field Report – May 23, 2022 May 25, 2022 | Print Coastal Region Rob Last reports, “As we see temperatures increase, strawberry flowering is reducing. Plants are still heavy with fruit, so managing diseases such as anthracnose and botrytis through fungicides and sanitation are key. Pests and diseases in cucurbits are currently low. With watermelon and cantaloupes, a gap in fungicide protection of 7 days can lead to disease. Given the increased chances of rainfall, we are increasing protection against gummy stem blight. Cucurbit downy mildew is active in South Georgia, so any cucumber growers should be prepared to apply fungicides. Some additional rainfall in the area would be most welcome.” Zack Snipes reports, “We were extremely dry in the Lowcountry until a rain on Sunday. I checked 2 different weather stations, and we received 0.89 inches. We are still very behind on rainfall and could use a few more showers. The good news about it being so dry is that diseases have been kept at bay this spring. However, I am seeing a good bit of powdery mildew on squash and zucchini. If you are not picking or just beginning to harvest, then a spray may be warranted. If you have been picking for a few weeks, then you may not get back your return on investment if you spray for powdery mildew. Other crops loved the heat this past week, including tomato, watermelon, and cucumber. Strawberry season is winding down, especially with the onset of the heat last week.” Powdery mildew symptoms on yellow squash. Zack Snipes, ©2022, Clemson Extension Classic tomato spotted wilt virus symptoms on tomato fruit. Zack Snipes, ©2022, Clemson Extension Midlands Region Justin Ballew reports, “Last week was hot, dry, and windy. We received a little rain over the weekend, but it really didn’t amount to much. We’re still very dry. The warm weather has strawberry bloom slowing down and runner production picking up. One benefit of the prolonged dry, sunny weather is that the fruit being produced now are some of the best-tasting fruit I’ve tried this season. There are still mites out there, but at this point in the season, we need to be thinking about whether we’ll be picking long enough to make up the cost of a miticide. Squash and zucchini are being harvested now, and the first few plantings of sweet corn are silking.” Now that the temperatures have warmed up, blooms are slowing down, and runner production is increasing in strawberries. Justin Ballew, ©2022, Clemson Extension Growers are picking squash and zucchini now in the Midlands. Justin Ballew, ©2022, Clemson Extension Upstate Region Kerrie Roach reports, “Last week was hot and dry, continuing the drought pressure, but… the rain is FINALLY here! Market gardens have been struggling to keep things watered and thriving in the heat with building insect pressure. A silver lining to the lack of rain has been that the disease pressure in the upstate is fairly limited. Apples are coming along, and a cover application will be needed after the rains stop later this week.” If this document didn’t answer your questions, please contact HGIC at hgic@clemson.edu or 1-888-656-9988. Author(s) Justin Ballew, Horticulture & Agronomy Agent, Lexington County, Clemson Extension, Clemson University Was this helpful? Yes No What can we improve?Close comments window Submit What did you like most?Close comments window Submit PreviousCorn Poppies NextBe a Lazy Gardener and K.I.S.S. for Healthy Plants Related Posts Autumn Roadside Wildflowers September 3, 2018 Figs are Ripening August 27, 2018 Fall Webworms September 13, 2019 How to Tell the Difference Between Goldenrod and Ragweed September 10, 2018 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest 1 Share This Facebook Twitter Pinterest Gmail Like