COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Be a Lazy Gardener and K.I.S.S. for Healthy Plants May 26, 2022 | Print Things may get a little messy, but being a lazy gardener means choosing the right plants and not sweating the small stuff. N. Jordan Franklin, ©2022 HGIC, Clemson Extension Most people know K.I.S.S. is an acronym for Keep It Simple Silly (or something very similar). K.I.S.S. is great because you can apply it to just about any situation in life. Horticulture is no different. Sure, some horticultural pursuits, like growing certain exotic ornamental plants, fruits and vegetables, or houseplants, are complicated. But most people can save themselves a lot of time, money, and headaches by just sticking to the basics. I often tell people that I am a lazy gardener, and it’s true. I don’t want to spend any more time working on my landscape or vegetable garden than is necessary. Don’t get me wrong; I enjoy plants very much. However, the keyword here is ‘enjoy.’ Spending endless hours (especially during our hot South Carolina summers) fighting or babying sensitive plants is not my idea of enjoyment. Come to the dark side, be a lazy gardener like me. We have cookies… inside… in the air conditioning. Okay, maybe I’m not inside in the air conditioner, but I do love a good chocolate chip cookie. Ayla L. Franklin, ©2022 HGIC, Clemson Extension Being a lazy gardener starts with choosing the right plants. A basic tenet of sound horticulture is putting the ‘right plant in the right place.’ To do that, we must consider the ‘place’ by answering the following questions: Do I live in the Upstate, Midlands, or on the Coast? Is my yard shaded, sunny, or a mix of the two? What part of the day do I get sun and shade? Do I have heavy clay soil or well-drained sandy soil? How much space do I have for plants? (Look up, down, and side to side to answer this one!) What is my gardening skill level? Choosing the right plants is easy with the answers to these questions in mind. For an easy ‘right plant, right place’ hack, choose native plants or tried-and-true introduced species. They are typically pest free and easy to maintain. Visit HGIC 1050, Choosing a Planting Location and Native Plants for Wildlife: Resources for Home Gardeners for more information about choosing the appropriate plants. Following the ‘Right Plant, Right Place’ rule is 80% or more of being a lazy gardener. The remaining work is done through proper maintenance practices. I will tackle maintenance in next month’s blog post. If this document didn’t answer your questions, please contact HGIC at hgic@clemson.edu or 1-888-656-9988. Author(s) N. Jordan Franklin, Consumer Horticulture Extension Agent, Clemson University Was this helpful? Yes No What can we improve?Close comments window Submit What did you like most?Close comments window Submit PreviousSC Fruit and Vegetable Field Report – May 23, 2022 NextWatering the Vegetable Garden Related Posts Autumn Roadside Wildflowers September 3, 2018 Figs are Ripening August 27, 2018 Fall Webworms September 13, 2019 How to Tell the Difference Between Goldenrod and Ragweed September 10, 2018 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest Share This Facebook Twitter Pinterest Gmail Like