COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Corn Poppies May 24, 2022 | Print Corn poppies (Papaver rhoeas) are charming little darlings whom I let mischievously wander around my garden from season to season, deciding upon a new piece of real estate to make their home. Their eager-to-spread nature is due to their abundance of seeds produced from its seed pod, an exquisitely crafted trinket that releases its seeds in a rather clever and advantageous way. Corn poppies (Papaver rhoeas) are charming little darlings whom I let mischievously wander around my garden from season to season. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension Nodding flower buds open up to reveal brilliant red flowers and exquisite centers. The flowers last 2-3 days, but the capsules they leave behind are just as ornamental. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension An abundance of ripe poppy seeds shaken from capsule. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension Swollen ovary, capsule has not matured entirely yet. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension Mature capsule that has dehisced. Pores are formed below the stigmatic disk and the seeds are contained inside the ovary and dispersed when the stem is disturbed from wind or passing people or animals. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension Poppy capsules swaying in the wind on their flexible wiry stems. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension Red poppies. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension Hairy buds and wiry stems, flower buds start off nodding, held in a shepherds crook but straighten out as the bud expands and the flower is displayed. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension Beautiful display of poppies. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension Papery red blooms and dark center. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension Petals have fallen off, leaving the stamens and pistil. Mary Vargo, ©2022, Clemson Extension Drooping, rough, hairy buds emerge on frail-looking, wiry stems from a basal rosette of foliage in late winter. The skinny stems hold the flower bud in a shepherd’s hook, seemingly burdened by the weight of the bud, but instead, lift their heads high and straighten themselves out as the bud begins to break and four crumpled, crepe-paper flower petals unfold. The eye-catching center of a corn poppy reveals a fringe of male reproductive structures called stamens, and the female reproductive organs collectively referred to as the pistil. The cylindrical ovary sits at the bottom of the bloom and is surrounded by petals and stamens on all sides, which protect it during the early stages of formation. A round, stigmatic disc sits at the top of the ovary like a tightly screwed-on lid. It is covered with decorative radiating ridges of individual stigmas, resembling the spokes of a wheel that are sticky and used to catch the pollen and where fertilization occurs. If fertilization is successful, the stamens fall away with the petals. The stigmatic disc takes on a scalloped edge from the profusion of seeds ripening below, causing the ovary to swell with life. The stigmatic disc’s “lid” will eventually pop open at maturity, revealing tiny openings just below its lid for the ripened seed to be dispersed, but how do they get out? Passing people and animals push against it, and the stiff stem bends and then springs back, launching showers of seeds in every direction; or a wind bends the stem back and forth, and the seeds are sown, a few at a time and in different conditions of season and weather. For more information on growing annuals, see HGIC 1152, Growing Annuals. If this document didn’t answer your questions, please contact HGIC at hgic@clemson.edu or 1-888-656-9988. Author(s) Mary Vargo, Urban Horticulture Agent & Master Gardener Coordinator Cooperative Extension-Greenville County, Clemson University Was this helpful? Yes No What can we improve?Close comments window Submit What did you like most?Close comments window Submit PreviousWhat’s Happening with Hemp? May 22, 2022 NextSC Fruit and Vegetable Field Report – May 23, 2022 Related Posts Autumn Roadside Wildflowers September 3, 2018 Figs are Ripening August 27, 2018 Fall Webworms September 13, 2019 How to Tell the Difference Between Goldenrod and Ragweed September 10, 2018 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest Share This Facebook Twitter Pinterest Gmail Like