COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Problems How to Tell the Difference Between Moles & Voles Apr 15, 2022 | Landscape, Lawns, Problems It is important to know the difference between mole and vole damage to the landscape. One way to distinguish the difference is by the diet of each animal. Moles “M” are meat-eaters, and their diet... Cabbage, Broccoli & Other Cole Crop Insect Pests Jan 27, 2022 | Fruits & Vegetables, Problems, Vegetables Introduction Each year numerous insect pests damage crops in home gardens and commercial fruit and vegetable fields. Caterpillars, the immature larval stage of butterflies and moths, are the most... Pesticide Waste Disposal Oct 11, 2021 | Entomology, Problems, Safe Handling Before using any pesticide, it is essential to read the entire product label. The label has key safety instructions to protect the applicator before, during, and after pesticide use. Directions for... Pesticide Safety Oct 11, 2021 | Entomology, Problems, Safe Handling Pesticides are chemicals used to kill, repel, or control organisms which are considered pests. Pesticides include insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, rodenticides, disinfectants, and many other... Tips for Taking Good Photos to Send to Your Extension Agent Sep 23, 2021 | Problems Extension agents constantly receive photos from the public asking to identify a species or diagnosis a disease or pest. However, their ability to perform these tasks depends on the quality of the... African Violet Diseases & Insect Pests Sep 10, 2021 | Flowering, Indoor Plants, Problems African violets are easily the most popular flowering houseplants in America. Their popularity arises from the fact that they are easy to grow and can bloom for 10 to 12 months of the year. They... Brown Patch & Large Patch Diseases of Lawns Sep 10, 2021 | Landscape, Lawns, Problems Introduction Brown patch and large patch are probably the most common and damaging diseases of cool-season and warm-season turfgrasses, respectively, in South Carolina. The beauty of all South... Palm Diseases & Nutritional Problems Sep 10, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs, Trees Palm trees grown in the landscape appear carefree, but they are susceptible to many diseases, insects, and nutritional problems. Avoid many of these problems by following the recommended cultural... Common Houseplant Insects & Related Pests Sep 10, 2021 | Flowering, Foliage, Indoor Plants, Problems When a houseplant looks less than healthy, most often, it is the result of improper care. Factors such as too much or too little water, light, heat, or fertilizer can cause many plant problems.... Houseplant Diseases & Disorders Sep 10, 2021 | Flowering, Foliage, Indoors, Problems Houseplants can develop many problems, but most have environmental or cultural causes. Diseases are not common on most houseplants grown indoors because environmental conditions are not favorable... Armyworms Sep 2, 2021 | Lawns, Problems The fall armyworm (Spodotera frugiperda) is the caterpillar species most commonly associated with foliar damage seen on turfgrasses, such as bermudagrass (Cynodon dactylon) and tall fescue (Festuca... Nostoc Aug 27, 2021 | Problems Nostoc is a dark blue-green, jelly-like organism sometimes found in soggy home lawns. While the organism’s discovery can be alarming for homeowners, it causes no harm to plants or animals. The... 1 2 3 … 16 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest