COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Water Be Septic Safe: Unique Situations May 24, 2022 | Water Many homeowners rely on septic systems to treat their household wastewater. Unfortunately, these systems are often not thought of until issues arise and treatment or maintenance is required. To help... Be Septic Safe: Septic Failures May 24, 2022 | Water All septic systems have a life span. Knowing signs of failure can save you money and prevent harmful pollutants that negatively impact the environment. When a septic system fails, it allows... Be Septic Safe: Best Practices for Septic System Maintenance May 24, 2022 | Water A residential septic system uses natural and technological processes to treat household wastewater from toilets, showers, sinks, and other water-using appliances. When a septic system fails, it can... Be Septic Safe: Considerations for New Septic System Users, Locating the System, & Basic Maintenance May 24, 2022 | Water Septic systems, also referred to as onsite wastewater treatment systems, cluster systems, or private sewage systems, are designed to collect, treat, and discharge wastewater from residential,... Blue Carbon May 10, 2022 | In the Garden, Water If your summer vacation plans include a trip to the beach, you’ll have the chance to see our coastal blue carbon resources up close and personal. What is blue carbon, you may wonder? It’s the carbon... Salt Tolerant Plants for the South Carolina Coast Apr 15, 2022 | Landscape, Landscaping, Water Salt exposure is just one of the many environmental factors that makes coastal landscaping challenging. Selecting plants that are tolerant to salt exposure will increase the rate of success.... Benefits of Riparian Buffers Along Waterways Apr 14, 2022 | In the Garden, Water Approximately 6% of South Carolina is covered by water, with 30,000 miles of rivers and streams carving through the state’s rolling hillside, pastoral farmland, historic cities, and saltmarsh-laced... Blue Carbon Dec 3, 2021 | Landscape, Water While you may not have heard the term “blue carbon” before, you are likely familiar with it if you have ever visited the South Carolina coastal region. Blue Carbon is the carbon that is stored in... Aquaponics Vs. Hydroponics: Which is best? Sep 21, 2021 | Water Hydroponics involves growing plants in a soilless medium and essential nutrient water solutions for proper plant growth and development. This form of agriculture has been in use for thousands of... Shorescaping Freshwater Shorelines Sep 14, 2021 | Landscape, Landscaping, Water Shorescapes South Carolina is blessed to have an abundance of water resources in the form of rivers, lakes, ponds, and estuaries, and many residents own properties that adjoin these beautiful... Aquatic & Shoreline Plant Selection Jun 8, 2021 | Landscape, Water Aquatic plant selection is extremely important in the development of aquatic pools. You must have some degree of balance between plants and animals in your pool so that the water remains clear and... Improving Fish Populations in Recreational Ponds May 18, 2021 | Water All ponds are unique, including the management strategies and overall goal of the pond owner. For some pond owners, management for increased fish production is at the top of their list. Common... 1 2 3 … 8 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest