COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Watering the Vegetable Garden May 30, 2022 | Print As you drink your recommended 6 to 8, 8-ounce glasses of water per day, don’t forget that your vegetable garden should also never be short of water this summer. Did you know that water makes up 80 to 90 % of vegetable and fruit weight? Water affects yield, fruit size, and quality. It also prevents a variety of disorders such as toughness, off-flavor, cracking, blossom-end rot, and misshapen fruit. Keep cucumbers and squash well-watered during flowering and fruit development. Bob Polomski, ©2022, Clemson Extension Other than the first few weeks after seed germination and immediately after transplanting, vegetables have certain “critical stages” in their growth and development when water is extremely important. For example, lima, pole, and snap beans need water when they’re flowering. Sweet corn should have adequate water available during silking, tasseling, and ear development. Keep cucumbers and squash well-watered during flowering and fruit development. The same advice applies to eggplant, pepper, and tomato, which require adequate water from flowering until harvest. The rule of thumb for watering vegetable gardens is simple: vegetables need an inch of water per week in the summertime, whether it’s provided by you or Mother Nature. (Use a rain gauge to help determine the amount of rain you have received each week). This converts roughly to six gallons per square yard per week. This inch of water will wet the root zone to a depth of 6 to 8 inches. Don’t wait for your vegetables to signal their need for water with wilted leaves or young leaves that have become dull-colored, darkened, or grayish. They could already be injured when they show these signs of drought stress. Yield and quality could also already be compromised. In addition to monitoring weekly rainfall amounts, check the soil for moisture. With a trowel, dig down 2 to 4 inches deep and feel the soil. With Piedmont clay soils, you’ll find that simply not being able to dig down easily is enough to know that it’s dry. Shallow-rooted vegetables will have a greater demand for water than deep-rooted crops, so keep a watchful eye on them. A few shallow-rooted crops include lettuce, corn, potato, and radish. Moderately deep-rooted vegetables include bean, carrot, cucumber, eggplant, cantaloupe, pepper, pea, summer squash, and turnip. Deep-rooted vegetables include asparagus, lima bean, pumpkin, winter squash, sweet potato, tomato, and watermelon. A garden hose with a spray attachment can be used to water the garden. Bob Polomski, ©2022, Clemson Extension You can irrigate your vegetable garden with a variety of tools, including a watering can, a garden hose with a fan nozzle or spray attachment, a moveable lawn sprinkler, a soaker hose, or drip or trickle irrigation. If you want to be conservative about the amount of water you apply to your vegetables, consider drip or trickle irrigation, which is the most efficient irrigation method available. For more information about watering your vegetable garden, see HGIC 1260, Watering the Vegetable Garden. To help conserve moisture in the soil, maintain a shallow layer of mulch around your plants. Before you start your fall vegetable garden next month, add organic matter to the soil. Organic matter, such as compost, increases the moisture-holding capacity of the soil. For more information on mulch, see HGIC 1604, Mulch. Finally, when you water your vegetables, don’t go overboard and give them more than necessary. Besides being wasteful, excessive watering leaches nutrients out of the soil, encourages diseases, and may reduce flavor, especially in cantaloupes and watermelons. Although keeping up with the watering needs of your vegetables may be an unglamorous chore, it’ll be worthwhile at harvest time. Your vegetables will not only have the look and size of those in the supermarket, but they’ll have that home-grown, fresh-picked flavor. If this document didn’t answer your questions, please contact HGIC at hgic@clemson.edu or 1-888-656-9988. Author(s) Robert F. Polomski, PhD, Associate Extension Specialist, Clemson University Was this helpful? Yes No What can we improve?Close comments window Submit What did you like most?Close comments window Submit PreviousBe a Lazy Gardener and K.I.S.S. for Healthy Plants NextMay 30 Week 5 Garden Photos Related Posts Autumn Roadside Wildflowers September 3, 2018 Figs are Ripening August 27, 2018 Fall Webworms September 13, 2019 How to Tell the Difference Between Goldenrod and Ragweed September 10, 2018 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest Share This Facebook Twitter Pinterest Gmail Like