COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Health Extension for Diabetes Mar 9, 2022 | Print Even though a diabetes diagnosis might be intimidating, it is possible to live a normal and healthy life with diabetes, but learning proper diabetes management and beneficial lifestyle changes is essential. What is Diabetes? Diabetes is a chronic disease characterized by high blood sugar due to the lack of insulin because the body either does not make enough insulin or cannot use the insulin it makes effectively. Insulin is an essential hormone that helps sugar enter your body’s cells to give them energy. Without a sufficient level of insulin, sugar will stay in the bloodstream and can cause a variety of health issues. According to the National Diabetes Statistics Report, a periodic publication of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 34.2 million people in the United States are living with diabetes, which is 10.5% of the population. Different Types of Diabetes There are two main types of diabetes, type 1 and type 2. Type 1 diabetes occurs because the body does not produce insulin, which is the hormone that the body needs to get sugar from the bloodstream into the cells of the body for energy. Type 1 diabetes can be managed with insulin therapy in combination with healthy lifestyle changes. Type 2 diabetes is the most common form of diabetes, and it occurs when the body does not use insulin properly. Type 2 diabetes can be managed with a combination of healthy eating, exercise, and medication, including insulin. Maintain a healthy weight, diet, and physical activity level are key to controlling both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Common Diabetes Myths: Eating too much sugar causes diabetes …FALSE. While eating a diet high in sugar (as well as other unhealthy lifestyle factors, such as lack of physical activity) can increase the risk for type 2 diabetes, sugar alone does NOT cause diabetes. Diabetes can be cured …FALSE. While medicine continues to advance, there is still no cure for diabetes, but diabetes can be controlled and managed with a combination of healthy lifestyle changes, such as increased physical activity and beneficial nutritional changes. Medication or insulin also may be needed. Diabetes isn’t a big deal ….FALSE. Diabetes is a very serious disease. In 2017, the American Diabetes Association reported diabetes as the seventh leading cause of death in the United States. This data is based on 83,564 death certificates in which diabetes was listed as the underlying cause of death. If you’re overweight, will you always develop type 2 diabetes …FALSE. While excess weight increases your chance of having diabetes, not everyone who is overweight will develop diabetes. People of any weight can have diabetes. Health Impact of Diabetes If your diabetes is not managed, you are at a higher risk for a number of serious health complications such as: heart disease and stroke; kidney failure; nervous system disease (neuropathy); non-traumatic lower-limb amputation; gum disease and other dental issues. Since diabetes can affect almost every part of your body, it is extremely important to manage your blood sugar levels to prevent these health problems. Increasing your physical activity level and eating healthy are both crucial to living a healthier life with diabetes. Resources for Managing Diabetes What can you do to better manage your diabetes and reduce your risks for complications? Consider joining a diabetes education and support program. Clemson Extension offers a program called Health Extension for Diabetes. This program is a 4-month long education and support program with group and individual sessions for people living with either type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Health Extension for Diabetes is recognized by the American Diabetes Association as a practice-tested diabetes support program. The program aims to provide participants with the knowledge, skills, and support needed to improve their health. Health Extension Program for Diabetes Photo credits are RHN Picture Bank The program has a series of 16 one-hour sessions that are currently being offered online by Zoom. Session topics include healthy eating, physical activity, managing stress, medications and monitoring, and more. You must be 18 years old to participate and have a diagnosis of type 1 or type 2 diabetes. You may register for free on Qualtrics using this link: https://clemson.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_07gV9gl3ZHOAohU For more information about the Health Extension for Diabetes Program, contact Danielle McFall at 864-365-0641 or at healthygreenville@clemson.edu. If this document didn’t answer your questions, please contact HGIC at hgic@clemson.edu or 1-888-656-9988. Author(s) Danielle McFall, Health Extension Agent Greenville County, Clemson University Was this helpful? Yes No What can we improve?Close comments window Submit What did you like most?Close comments window Submit PreviousAttracting Beneficial Insects to Your Vegetable Garden NextSC Fruit and Vegetable Field Report Related Posts Canning Tips – How tight should your lids be? September 10, 2018 Basil and Pesto October 22, 2018 Canning Apples September 24, 2018 Making the Most of Fall Pumpkin’s October 17, 2018 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest Share This Facebook Twitter Pinterest Gmail Like