COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Holiday Living Christmas Trees Nov 9, 2021 | Holiday, Landscape Living Christmas trees are container-grown or balled and burlapped Christmas trees that can be planted as landscape trees after the holiday season. This way of enjoying a Christmas tree is practical... Gray Mold (Botrytis Blight) Jul 23, 2021 | Flowers, Holiday, Landscape, Lawns, Shrubs Botrytis blight or “gray mold” is a widely distributed disease caused by the fungus Botrytis cinerea. It can infect some vegetables, soft fruits, flowers, trees, and shrubs, especially... Caffeine Jun 14, 2021 | Food, Holiday What is Caffeine? Caffeine is found naturally in the leaves, seeds, and fruits of more than 60 plant species worldwide. It is added to some beverages and foods for flavor. People have enjoyed... Repurposing Your Old “Live” Christmas Tree to Benefit Wildlife Mar 18, 2021 | Holiday, Water, Wildlife After the holiday season, many residents are left wondering what can be done with their discarded “live” Christmas tree. There are several options to repurpose your trees to benefit wildlife, your... How to Sneak in Exercise During the Holidays Nov 24, 2020 | Health, Holiday, In the Garden The holiday season brings joy and yes—many big meals, desserts, busy schedules, and stressful planning. As we move into this season, it is easy to fall off our exercise routine. During the holidays,... Preparing Food for a Crowd May 15, 2020 | Food, Fruits & Vegetables, Holiday, Preservation, Safe Handling Your family may enjoy meals, day after day, and never get sick from foodborne illness. Then comes a big family gathering or a large party. You are handling larger amounts of food; your refrigerator... Food Safety Pitfalls at Thanksgiving & Beyond Apr 20, 2020 | Food, Health, Holiday, Safe Handling Avoid common pitfalls that can turn a festive Thanksgiving meal into a foodborne illness disaster! Preparing and cooking a turkey safely can determine whether your family and friends simply enjoy a... Caring for Your Poinsettia during the Holidays Dec 9, 2019 | Holiday, In the Garden Nothing says Christmas more than a poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima). Did you know that December 12th is known as National Poinsettia Day? Plant breeders have developed a wide range of colors in... Holiday Cactus Dec 5, 2019 | Holiday, In the Garden The holidays are often associated with particular plants such as Poinsettias, Cyclamen, and paperwhites, but my favorite group of plants is the holiday cacti. About 15 years ago, I purchased what I... How to Make a Boxwood Kissing Ball for the Holidays Dec 2, 2019 | Holiday, In the Garden Did you know that the tradition of making and hanging a kissing ball dates back to the early Middle Ages? During that time, people used apples or potatoes as a base to create a ball-shaped... Pecan Topped Pumpkin Bread Nov 25, 2019 | Food, Holiday, Tasty Bites This Pecan Topped Pumpkin Bread is a must for your fall baking and pairs exceptionally well to any Thanksgiving menu! Want to give it an extra burst of sweetness? Then be sure to add those optional... Healthy Tip – Do You Know How to Cook a Turkey? Nov 21, 2019 | Holiday, Tasty Bites Before cooking your turkey, it is highly recommended to make sure it is completely defrosted. You can roast, smoke, or deep-fry your turkey. Below are simple instructions for roasting your Holiday... 1 2 3 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest