COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Landscape Reading A Fertilizer Label May 27, 2022 | Landscape, Lawns Before you purchase a fertilizer, read and understand the label to choose the right one. While commercially available fertilizers vary in the amount of nutrients contained in the bag and the content... Caladium Apr 15, 2022 | Annuals, Foliage, Landscape Caladiums (Caladium species) are in the arum (Araceae) family and native to Central and South America. They are hardy only to USDA zone 9 or 10; therefore, caladiums should be used as annuals in... Salt Tolerant Plants for the South Carolina Coast Apr 15, 2022 | Landscape, Landscaping, Water Salt exposure is just one of the many environmental factors that makes coastal landscaping challenging. Selecting plants that are tolerant to salt exposure will increase the rate of success.... How to Tell the Difference Between Moles & Voles Apr 15, 2022 | Landscape, Lawns, Problems It is important to know the difference between mole and vole damage to the landscape. One way to distinguish the difference is by the diet of each animal. Moles “M” are meat-eaters, and their diet... Chastetree Feb 7, 2022 | Landscape, Trees Chastetree (Vitex agnus-castus) is a deciduous (loses its leaves in the fall), multi-trunked shrub or small tree native to southern Europe and western Asia. It is an excellent selection for southern... Florida Anise Jan 25, 2022 | Landscape, Shrubs Florida anise (Illicium floridanum) is a native, evergreen shrub commonly found along shady stream beds and moist wooded ravines in Louisiana and Florida. In recent years, this notable species has... Cleome or Spider Flower Jan 21, 2022 | Flowers, Landscape, Landscaping An easily grown annual native to South America, cleome (Cleome hassleriana synonym C. pungens, C. spinosa) is a favorite in Southern gardens. The delicate pink, rose, purple, white, or bicolor... Melampodium or Butter Daisy Jan 20, 2022 | Flowers, Landscape Melampodium or Butter Daisy (Melampodium divaricatum; synonym M. paludosum) is a reliable, low-maintenance summer annual. This member of the aster family originated in the tropical regions of... Blue Carbon Dec 3, 2021 | Landscape, Water While you may not have heard the term “blue carbon” before, you are likely familiar with it if you have ever visited the South Carolina coastal region. Blue Carbon is the carbon that is stored in... Living Christmas Trees Nov 9, 2021 | Holiday, Landscape Living Christmas trees are container-grown or balled and burlapped Christmas trees that can be planted as landscape trees after the holiday season. This way of enjoying a Christmas tree is practical... Shorescaping Freshwater Shorelines Sep 14, 2021 | Landscape, Landscaping, Water Shorescapes South Carolina is blessed to have an abundance of water resources in the form of rivers, lakes, ponds, and estuaries, and many residents own properties that adjoin these beautiful... Brown Patch & Large Patch Diseases of Lawns Sep 10, 2021 | Landscape, Lawns, Problems Introduction Brown patch and large patch are probably the most common and damaging diseases of cool-season and warm-season turfgrasses, respectively, in South Carolina. The beauty of all South... 1 2 3 … 31 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest