COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Trees Chastetree Feb 7, 2022 | Landscape, Trees Chastetree (Vitex agnus-castus) is a deciduous (loses its leaves in the fall), multi-trunked shrub or small tree native to southern Europe and western Asia. It is an excellent selection for southern... Palm Diseases & Nutritional Problems Sep 10, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs, Trees Palm trees grown in the landscape appear carefree, but they are susceptible to many diseases, insects, and nutritional problems. Avoid many of these problems by following the recommended cultural... Algal Leaf Spot Jul 30, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs, Trees Of the various kinds of organisms that cause plant disease, plant parasitic algae are not the norm. The only species that is common in the United States is Cephaleuros virescens. It causes a disease... Emerald Ash Borer May 6, 2021 | Entomology, Problems, Trees The emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis, EAB) is a non-native forest pest known for its bright green color, devastating impacts on the environment, and massive economic cost.It was first... Pine Diseases Mar 31, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Trees Pine trees (Pinus species) are important to South Carolina not only for their ornamental value but also for lumber, watershed management, wildlife habitat, and Christmas trees. There are over 125... Juniper Diseases & Insect Pests Mar 5, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs, Trees Junipers grown in South Carolina are relatively low-maintenance plants if planted in the correct location and given proper cultural care. There are several common problems that can cause browning of... Holly Diseases & Insect Pests Mar 4, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs, Trees Diseases Black Root Rot: Black root rot is caused by the fungus Thielaviopsis basicola. This fungus primarily affects the root system and reduces plant vigor. Aboveground symptoms may include... A Beautiful Dogwood with Edible Fruit Mar 4, 2021 | In the Garden, Trees The Cornelian cherry dogwood, Cornus mas, is a little-known dogwood of note. Instead of the showy, white bracts of our native and Kousa dogwoods, this tree has clusters of small yellow flowers which... Camellia Diseases & Insect Pests Feb 26, 2021 | Problems, Shrubs, Trees Camellias are one of the most desirable and well-adapted plants for Southern gardens. Many of the common problems of sasanqua camellia (Camellia sasanqua, C. hiemalis, and C. vernalis) and the... Powdery Mildew Feb 26, 2021 | Flowers, Landscape, Problems, Shrubs, Trees Introduction Powdery mildew is the name given to a group of diseases caused by several closely related fungi. Their common symptom is a grayish-white, powdery mat visible on the surface of leaves,... Crapemyrtle Bark Scale Feb 24, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Trees The crapemyrtle bark scale (Acanthococcus lagerstroemiae) is a recently introduced pest from Asia that initially infested crapemyrtles (Lagerstroemia spp.) in Texas during 2004. Since then, it has... Cranberry Rootworm Beetle Feb 24, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs, Tree Fruits, Trees The Cranberry rootworm beetle (Rhabdopterus picipes) is one of several leaf-feeding beetles and weevils that consume the foliage of woody landscape plants in South Carolina. These nocturnal-feeding... 1 2 3 … 8 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest