COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Food Packing Lunches for Work or School May 27, 2022 | Food, Health, Safe Handling Reasons to Pack a Lunch Every day millions of people across the country pack a lunch to take to work or school for three primary reasons: economics; nutrition and weight management. Economics:... Kids in the Kitchen May 27, 2022 | Food, Safe Handling Your kitchen is an experiential learning laboratory for your kids. It’s where they learn about food shopping, cooking, and cleanup. These are skills that will help them become self-sufficient... Food Safety for Camping Apr 14, 2022 | Food, Safe Handling Keeping food safe on your next adventure is crucial to protecting yourself, your family, and your friends from foodborne illnesses. Follow these easy food safety recommendations for properly... Pumpkin Basics Apr 7, 2022 | Food, Fruits & Vegetables, Preservation, Safe Handling Pumpkin Information The deep orange color of pumpkin flesh is a sure sign that pumpkin is a good source of vitamin A. One cup of cooked pumpkin (without salt) has only 49 calories and is a great... More Broccoli, Please! Mar 22, 2022 | Food, Health Helping Kids Like Vegetables Parents and children seem to have more struggles over vegetables than any other food. Vegetables should be offered in the same matter-of-fact way that all other foods... Toxoplasmosis Mar 22, 2022 | Food, Health What is Toxoplasmosis? A single-celled protozoan parasite called Toxoplasma gondii causes the disease known as toxoplasmosis. Toxoplasmosis is the 2nd leading cause of death from foodborne illness... Fast Food & Take-Out Meals Mar 18, 2022 | Food, Health Are you looking for meals on the run to fit your family’s busy lifestyle? Fast food restaurants, take-out, and delivered food can provide quick, flavorful meals so that you can spend your time on... Food Safety in Hurricanes & Floods Mar 16, 2022 | Emergency, Food, Safe Handling Advance preparation is a key to food safety during a hurricane and the floods that can accompany it. Those living in hurricane areas should keep adequate supplies on hand because power will likely... Stocking the Home Pantry for Quick Meals Mar 15, 2022 | Food, Health The two keys to making quick, healthy meals and snacks are to keep a well-stocked kitchen and to spend a few minutes planning meals every week. Buy foods you can make and serve when time is limited.... Slow Cooker Food Safety Feb 8, 2022 | Food, Safe Handling Many consumers prefer the convenience of a slow cooker for preparing soups, stews and other favorites. These countertop appliances cook foods slowly at a low temperature, so vitamins and minerals... Storing Meats & Seafood Feb 8, 2022 | Food, Safe Handling The goal of home food storage is to provide food that is both safe and of high-quality. A food may have good quality in terms of appearance and taste but have a high bacterial count and be unsafe to... Pickled Peppers Feb 8, 2022 | Food, Preservation Caution When working with hot peppers, wear plastic gloves while handling them, or wash hands thoroughly with soap and water before touching your face. To Peel Peppers Use one of the following... 1 2 3 … 25 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest