COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Tasty Bites National Brown Bag-It Day May 19, 2022 | Tasty Bites Bringing your lunch is a sure way to save money on eating out during the work week, and it’s also a great way to know what you’re putting in your body. You can always pack the classic peanut butter... National Women’s Health Week May 11, 2022 | Health, Tasty Bites Mother’s Day is the kickoff to National Women’s Health Week each year. The initiative encourages women and girls to make their health a priority. The CDC has found that women make up two... National Oatmeal Cookie Day Apr 4, 2022 | Tasty Bites It’s Oatmeal Cookie Day! Oatmeal cookies have been around for years. Although our modern-day version is much sweeter, oatcakes and oatmeal cookies share many of the same ingredients, including... Health Extension for Diabetes Mar 9, 2022 | Health, Tasty Bites Even though a diabetes diagnosis might be intimidating, it is possible to live a normal and healthy life with diabetes, but learning proper diabetes management and beneficial lifestyle changes is... Bacon Wrapped Quail Dec 15, 2021 | Tasty Bites Quail Meat and Eggs Worldwide: There are reports of quail being used for food as far back as 960 AD, where there is a reference to fried quail at a country fair trade. During the eighth and... How to Brine a Turkey: Wet and Dry Brining Nov 18, 2021 | Tasty Bites It is time to think about how you are going to prepare your Thanksgiving turkey. How do you prepare yours? Have you ever tried brining to add flavor and moisture? Brining meat is the process of... Leafy Greens, Radish Tops, and Vegetables “Presto Pesto“ Oct 14, 2021 | Tasty Bites I love to watch cooking shows, especially Guys Grocery Games and Chopped. The contestants on those shows are forced to be creative. They work with what they have and find alternative uses for... National Apple and Cranberry Month Oct 7, 2021 | Tasty Bites October has rolled in, and with it comes National Apple and Cranberry Month. At this time of year, you may see more and more recipes prepared with apples or cranberries. Apples and cranberries can... Food Safety Tips for Tailgating Sep 27, 2021 | Food, Tasty Bites What do people look forward to the most about the fall? Is it the cooler temperatures and bonfires? The changing color of the leaves? The slathering of pumpkin spice flavor in every product... Preventing Food Waste with Veggie Fritters Sep 20, 2021 | Tasty Bites Have you looked in your fridge lately? What food items do you discard most often? Do you have any vegetables or herbs that might be a little past their prime? In the United States, nearly half of... Food Safety Education Month Sep 2, 2021 | Tasty Bites September is National Food Safety Education Month and serves as a great reminder to all consumers of the importance of preventing food poisoning. Everyone is at potential risk for a foodborne... Know Diabetes by Heart – En Español Aug 31, 2021 | Food, Tasty Bites For the English translation of this document, see Know Diabetes By Heart. ¿Sabe alguien quien tiene un diagnóstico de la diabetes o la hipertensión? ¿Sabe que la diabetes es relacionada a la salud... 1 2 3 … 10 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest