COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Preservation Pumpkin Basics Apr 7, 2022 | Food, Fruits & Vegetables, Preservation, Safe Handling Pumpkin Information The deep orange color of pumpkin flesh is a sure sign that pumpkin is a good source of vitamin A. One cup of cooked pumpkin (without salt) has only 49 calories and is a great... Pickled Peppers Feb 8, 2022 | Food, Preservation Caution When working with hot peppers, wear plastic gloves while handling them, or wash hands thoroughly with soap and water before touching your face. To Peel Peppers Use one of the following... Basics of Jelly Making Nov 5, 2020 | Food, Preservation Jellied Products Jellies are usually made by cooking fruit juice with sugar. Jelly should be clear or translucent and firm enough to hold its shape when turned out of the container. Jams are thick,... Preserving Pumpkin & Winter Squash Oct 30, 2020 | Food, Preservation Cooking The easiest way to prepare the pulp of pumpkin or hard winter squash is to bake it in the oven. Wash the pumpkin or squash and cut in half crosswise. Remove its seeds and strings. Place the... Home Freezing Equipment Oct 28, 2020 | Food, Preservation The type of freezer to purchase will depend on family size, whether fresh produce or large quantities of meat will be frozen, available floor space, and efficiency and defrosting features preferred.... Finding Reliable Recipes for Safe Food Preservation Oct 28, 2020 | Food, Preservation There are numerous resources available to the public related to preserving foods at home. Many of them are not safe and may include recipes passed down from previous generations and random internet... Common Pickle Problems Aug 26, 2020 | Food, Preservation, Problems Can I use flaked salt for pickling? Most recipes call for granulated pickling or canning salt. Flake salt varies in density and is not recommended for pickling. When making quick process pickles,... Preserving Vegetables Aug 21, 2020 | Food, Preservation (Asparagus – Broccoli – Mushrooms – Okra – Peppers – Squash – Mixed Vegetables – Soups) Canning Asparagus — Spears or Pieces Quantity: An average of 24½ pounds is needed per canner load of 7 quarts;... Freezing Basics Jul 15, 2020 | Food, Preservation Freezing is one of the simplest and least time-consuming ways to preserve foods at home. Freezing does not sterilize food; the extreme cold simply retards growth of microorganisms and slows down... Preparing Food for a Crowd May 15, 2020 | Food, Fruits & Vegetables, Holiday, Preservation, Safe Handling Your family may enjoy meals, day after day, and never get sick from foodborne illness. Then comes a big family gathering or a large party. You are handling larger amounts of food; your refrigerator... Choose the Right Canner for Home Canning May 8, 2020 | Food, Preservation Many myths exist about safe ways to can foods. The reality is that food must be processed using the right equipment and the right recipes to ensure safety. The type of canner you need depends on the... Preserving Tomato Products Mar 30, 2020 | Food, Preservation (Juice – Salsa – Sauces – Tomatoes with Okra) Canning Tomatoes & Tomato Products Tomatoes and tomato products have traditionally been canned in a boiling water bath (212 °F).... 1 2 3 … 5 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest