COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Safe Handling Packing Lunches for Work or School May 27, 2022 | Food, Health, Safe Handling Reasons to Pack a Lunch Every day millions of people across the country pack a lunch to take to work or school for three primary reasons: economics; nutrition and weight management. Economics:... Kids in the Kitchen May 27, 2022 | Food, Safe Handling Your kitchen is an experiential learning laboratory for your kids. It’s where they learn about food shopping, cooking, and cleanup. These are skills that will help them become self-sufficient... Food Safety for Camping Apr 14, 2022 | Food, Safe Handling Keeping food safe on your next adventure is crucial to protecting yourself, your family, and your friends from foodborne illnesses. Follow these easy food safety recommendations for properly... Pumpkin Basics Apr 7, 2022 | Food, Fruits & Vegetables, Preservation, Safe Handling Pumpkin Information The deep orange color of pumpkin flesh is a sure sign that pumpkin is a good source of vitamin A. One cup of cooked pumpkin (without salt) has only 49 calories and is a great... Food Safety in Hurricanes & Floods Mar 16, 2022 | Emergency, Food, Safe Handling Advance preparation is a key to food safety during a hurricane and the floods that can accompany it. Those living in hurricane areas should keep adequate supplies on hand because power will likely... Slow Cooker Food Safety Feb 8, 2022 | Food, Safe Handling Many consumers prefer the convenience of a slow cooker for preparing soups, stews and other favorites. These countertop appliances cook foods slowly at a low temperature, so vitamins and minerals... Storing Meats & Seafood Feb 8, 2022 | Food, Safe Handling The goal of home food storage is to provide food that is both safe and of high-quality. A food may have good quality in terms of appearance and taste but have a high bacterial count and be unsafe to... Cleaning and Sanitation for the Homebrewer Nov 2, 2021 | Food, Safe Handling “The single most important factor in being able to make delicious beer is cleanliness” – Charlie Papazian The Complete Joy of Home Brewing 4th Edition The widespread popularity of Craft Beers has... Pesticide Waste Disposal Oct 11, 2021 | Entomology, Problems, Safe Handling Before using any pesticide, it is essential to read the entire product label. The label has key safety instructions to protect the applicator before, during, and after pesticide use. Directions for... Pesticide Safety Oct 11, 2021 | Entomology, Problems, Safe Handling Pesticides are chemicals used to kill, repel, or control organisms which are considered pests. Pesticides include insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, rodenticides, disinfectants, and many other... Safe Handling of Sausages & Hot Dogs Jul 23, 2021 | Food, Safe Handling Selecting the Best Sausage There are so many varieties of sausages! How long can you store them—and where? Are they fully cooked or not? The following background information will answer these... Safe Handling of Lettuce & Leafy Green Salads Jul 23, 2021 | Featured, Food, Safe Handling Safe handling practices are crucial when preparing fresh lettuce, and proper washing is fundamental to this process. Fresh lettuce may be picked from a garden, purchased at farmer’s markets,... 1 2 3 … 10 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest