COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Category: Shrubs Florida Anise Jan 25, 2022 | Landscape, Shrubs Florida anise (Illicium floridanum) is a native, evergreen shrub commonly found along shady stream beds and moist wooded ravines in Louisiana and Florida. In recent years, this notable species has... Palm Diseases & Nutritional Problems Sep 10, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs, Trees Palm trees grown in the landscape appear carefree, but they are susceptible to many diseases, insects, and nutritional problems. Avoid many of these problems by following the recommended cultural... Rose Diseases Jul 30, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs Roses are one of the most popular and versatile flowering shrubs grown throughout South Carolina. Most roses require a lot of care to grow and bloom properly. One of the most common causes of... Algal Leaf Spot Jul 30, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs, Trees Of the various kinds of organisms that cause plant disease, plant parasitic algae are not the norm. The only species that is common in the United States is Cephaleuros virescens. It causes a disease... Rose Insects & Related Pests Jul 30, 2021 | Entomology, Landscape, Problems, Shrubs With their showy and often fragrant blooms, roses are easily one of the most popular flowering plants grown in South Carolina. Unfortunately, the numerous insects and related pests that attack them... Gray Mold (Botrytis Blight) Jul 23, 2021 | Flowers, Holiday, Landscape, Lawns, Shrubs Botrytis blight or “gray mold” is a widely distributed disease caused by the fungus Botrytis cinerea. It can infect some vegetables, soft fruits, flowers, trees, and shrubs, especially... Azalea & Rhododendron Insect Pests Jul 15, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs While many people think of azaleas and rhododendrons as being completely different kinds of plants, they actually belong to the same genus, Rhododendron. In terms of the pests that attack these... Azalea & Rhododendron Diseases Jul 15, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs Rhododendrons and azaleas are some of the most popular spring-flowering shrubs in the landscape, and healthy plants can give years of pleasure. Many diseases and other problems can be prevented by... What Is It Wednesday? Apr 7, 2021 | In the Garden, Shrubs, Uncategorized Fishtail Camellia, Camellia japonica ‘White Mermaid’ Camellia japonica ‘White Mermaid,’ commonly referred to as fishtail camellia, matures to an approximately 10-foot by 10-foot shrub. The blooms... Gardenia Insects & Related Pests Mar 11, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs With their wonderfully fragrant blossoms and lustrous, dark green leaves, gardenias (Gardenia jasminoides) are popular shrubs with many southern gardeners. Their positive qualities compensate to a... Gardenia Diseases & Other Problems Mar 10, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs With their wonderfully fragrant blossoms and lustrous, dark green leaves, gardenias (Gardenia jasminoides) are popular shrubs with many southern gardeners. Their positive qualities compensate to a... Viburnum Diseases & Insect Pests Mar 10, 2021 | Landscape, Problems, Shrubs In general, most viburnums are relatively pest-free. Occasionally, disease or insect pest problems do occur, and usually, during those times, the plants are under stress or growing in less than... 1 2 3 … 9 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest