COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Close message window Skip to main navigationSkip to main contentSkip to search Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Landscape Flowers Groundcovers Landscaping Lawns Shrubs Trees Vines Water Wildlife Landscape Problems Fruits & Vegetables Nuts Small Fruits Tree Fruits Vegetables Fruit & Vegetable Problems Indoor Plants Flowering Foliage Holiday Indoor Plant Problems Food Emergency Health Preservation Safe Handling Starting Business Testing Food Problems Entomology Indoors Medical Structural Veterinary Entomology Problems About All Authors All Factsheets All Blog Posts Hot Topics County Offices Helpful Links Give Select Page Bacon Wrapped Quail Dec 15, 2021 | Print Quail Meat and Eggs Worldwide: There are reports of quail being used for food as far back as 960 AD, where there is a reference to fried quail at a country fair trade. During the eighth and sixteenth centuries in Japan, quail were semi-domesticated as pets and singing birds. However, by the early 1900s, they were beginning to be consumed for meat and eggs in Japan and many other parts of the world, including the United States. In America: The popularity of quail in American cuisine has risen at a slow but steady pace and only started showing up on menus in the last 40-50 years. This progression started with quail eggs being a common item in sushi restaurants and then making their way onto the menus of fine dining restaurants, as meat entrees and appetizers. More recently, quail meat and eggs can be found in retail locations such as grocery stores and online retailers. Pickled quail eggs can even occasionally be found in convenience stores. In South Carolina: Several quail farms in South Carolina raise quail for meat and eggs; in fact, the oldest quail farm in the United States is in our state! Quail is nutritious, tasty, and fun to cook. It might take a bit of investigation to find a place to buy it, but it will be well worth the effort. South Carolina also has quite a few farms that offer quail hunting. You’ll need some shooting skills to procure these quail and a good understanding of how to handle wild game birds. For more information, see HGIC 3515, Safe Handling of Wild Game Birds. In your kitchen: The following recipe is really good and makes a unique appetizer. Bacon-Wrapped Quail Breast Yield: 16 pieces 4 fresh green chili peppers (jalapeño if you like hot) 9 slices of bacon 8 quail breast 1 tsp. sea salt 4 slices of muenster cheese each slice divided into 4 pieces and rolled into a cylinder shape 1 tbsp. minced fresh chili pepper 2 tbsp. minced shallots 2 tbsp. minced garlic 1/2 cup bourbon (optional) 4 tbsp. maple syrup 4 tbsp. Dijon mustard 6 tbsp. apple cider vinegar 2 tbsp. butter Prepare breasts: Preheat oven to 400 °F. Cut 4 chili peppers into thin strips. 4 strips per pepper Flatten out quail breasts skin side down, sprinkle with salt, and place a strip of pepper and a piece of cheese in the center of each breast. Roll the breast and wrap each piece with a ½ slice of bacon. Secure with a toothpick or skewer. Add rolled breast to a flat skillet and cook on medium heat, turning once until each side begins to brown. Transfer breasts to a foil-lined baking tray and bake for 20 minutes or until a thermometer in the center of the breast reaches 165 °F. Sauce: Mince 1 slice of bacon and sauté for about 3 minutes or until the bacon is beginning to brown. Add garlic, shallots, and minced chili peppers and cook until softened (about 2-3 minutes). Add bourbon, vinegar, maple syrup, and Dijon mustard and simmer for about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and mix in butter. Serve: Remove quail from the oven and cut each breast into two pieces. Serve with sauce. Quail breast stuffed with peppers, cheese and wrapped with bacon. Adair Hoover ©2021 HGIC, Clemson Extension Sauté on both sides until the bacon begins to brown. Adair Hoover, ©2021 HGIC, Clemson Extension Pre-measured sauce ingredients. Adair Hoover ©2021 HGIC, Clemson Extension Serve bacon wrapped quail breast with sauce. Adair Hoover, ©2021 HGIC, Clemson Extension If this document didn’t answer your questions, please contact HGIC at hgic@clemson.edu or 1-888-656-9988. Author(s) Adair Hoover, HGIC Food Safety Agent, Clemson Extension, Clemson University Was this helpful? Yes No What can we improve?Close comments window Submit What did you like most?Close comments window Submit PreviousAmerican Holly NextA Re-acquaintance with Sunchokes aka Jerusalem Artichokes Related Posts Canning Tips – How tight should your lids be? September 10, 2018 Basil and Pesto October 22, 2018 Canning Apples September 24, 2018 Making the Most of Fall Pumpkin’s October 17, 2018 Search for: All Factsheets All Authors RSS Feed County Offices Factsheet Number Search for factsheet by number Trending Posts Tomato Diseases & Disorders Bermudagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Zoysiagrass Yearly Maintenance Program Centipedegrass Yearly Maintenance Program Changing the pH of Your Soil Newsletter Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates from HGIC. SUBSCRIBE! You have Successfully Subscribed! Categories Categories Select Category Annuals Emergency Entomology Featured Flowering Flowers Foliage Food Fruits & Vegetables Groundcovers Health Holiday Hot Topics In the Garden Indoor Plants Indoors Landscape Landscaping Lawns Medical Nuts Perennials Photo Blog Photo Worthy Insects and Animals Photo Worthy Plants Preservation Problems Recipes Safe Handling Shrubs Small Fruits Starting Business Structural Tasty Bites Testing Tree Fruits Trees Uncategorized Vegetables Veterinary Video Vines Water Weed Wildlife Tags Annuals April beneficial insects Blog Blogs Bulbs Control cottage food law COVID-19 December Deciduous Diseases Evergreen Fall February Fertilizing food law hot topic Insects IPM Irrigation January June March May Mixed screens Native natural enemies November Perennials Planting poison ivy poison oak Pollinator garden Propagation Pruning Rain garden Recipe Semi-evergreen September Shrub maintenance Spanish Tree maintenance Vegetables Weeds Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension | 103 Barre Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-986-4310 | 1-888-656-9988 (SC residents only) | Contact UsHGIC@clemson.edu Pin It on Pinterest 1 Share This Facebook Twitter Pinterest Gmail Like