Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Main Navigation About Us Show Extended About Us Dean's Office Strategic Plan CHHD Organizational Chart Contact Us Academics Show Extended School of Nursing Child and Adolescent Studies Counseling Human Services Kinesiology Military Science Public Health Social Work Faculty Research & Scholarship Centers/Institutes Faculty & Staff Show Extended Faculty & Staff Directory CSUF Faculty Development Center Support the College Future Students Show Extended Degrees & Majors Visit the Campus Apply Online Student Success Community Engagement Scholarships Alumni Load Social Media Icons About the College Dean's Office HHD Organizational Chart HHD Strategic Plan News & Events Contact Us About the College The mission of the College of Health and Human Development is to prepare students to thrive in a globalized era in their chosen field. We provide education, conduct research, and engage diverse communities to advance human health, development, and well-being. HHD: Commitment to Excellence Student-centered faculty are recognized for their outstanding teaching and cutting-edge research Graduates from nationally recognized programs obtain high scores on certification and licensure exams Well-equipped, state-of-the-art laboratories and classrooms support student learning Highly regarded degree programs provide meaningful career opportunities in important areas of need Programs meet rigorous national accreditation standards. Major accrediting bodies for the College include: American College of Nurse Midwives Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs (COA) California Association for Drug/Alcohol Educators California Board of Registered Nursing California Commission on Teacher Credentialing Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education Council in Education for Public Health Council on Accreditation for Counseling and Related Educational Programs Council on Social Work Education Council for Standards in Human Services Education Statistics: The College of Health & Human Development (HHD) is one of eight Colleges on the campus of Cal State Fullerton. Statistics shown are for Fall 2019: Almost 7,000 students enrolled in undergraduate and graduate programs The ethnic distribution of our student body is 48.9% Hispanic, 22.1% Asian/Pacific Islander, 16.2% White, 3.4% Multi-race, 3.9% International, 3.0% Unknown, 2.2% Black, and 0.1% American Indian The College includes over 365 faculty members 2,069 undergraduate students and 305 graduate students graduated in 2018-19 See a complete list of HHD Facts here This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development. Last Published 4/11/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.