Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Main Navigation About Us Show Extended About Us Dean's Office Strategic Plan CHHD Organizational Chart Contact Us Academics Show Extended School of Nursing Child and Adolescent Studies Counseling Human Services Kinesiology Military Science Public Health Social Work Faculty Research & Scholarship Centers/Institutes Faculty & Staff Show Extended Faculty & Staff Directory CSUF Faculty Development Center Support the College Future Students Show Extended Degrees & Majors Visit the Campus Apply Online Student Success Community Engagement Scholarships Alumni Load Social Media Icons Student Success Center Student Success & Engagement HHD offers a variety of options to help you enhance your college experience and graduate in a timely manner. CSUF provides a holistic education where learning occurs in and out of the classroom. Curricular and co-curricular experiences exists to optimize learning and to create active participation by students at the university. Through these experiences, students develop a commitment to intellectual inquiry, prepare for challenging professions, strengthen relationships to their community and contribute productively. Co-curricular experiences engage students in planned and purposeful learning outside of the formal curriculum that supports the exploration, application, and mastery of knowledge, skills, and abilities. Combined, these experiences foster collaborative relationships, professional success, a vibrant campus life, active civic participation, and engaged alumni. Are you ready to invest in activities/events that will contribute to your graduate school or career success? ADVISING Advising is an integral part of your undergrad education. The college strives to provide guidance to help you achieve your academic / career. Connect to HHD CONNECT to HHD enhances the first year experience of incoming students to ensure a successful transition into CSUF. HHD CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS Clubs/organizations offer great programs and events designed around professional growth and provide students with access to faculty and alumni. HHD-ICC The Inter-Club Council is a great resource for all HHD students. The ICC offers funding for conferences and professional development events. Theme Housing Community Apply to live on our HHD Theme Housing floor in our CSUF On-Campus Housing Complex to build a solid academic foundation your first year of college. Peer Mentor Program The PMP promotes meaningful college experiences by building learning partnerships between students. Student Success Team Meet the team that is committed to providing services that are designed to support your educational journey. OTHER RESOURCES Learn more about all the services the university and college has to offer in order to support you in a path towards success. This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development. Last Published 4/11/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.