Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Main Navigation About Us Show Extended About Us Dean's Office Strategic Plan CHHD Organizational Chart Contact Us Academics Show Extended School of Nursing Child and Adolescent Studies Counseling Human Services Kinesiology Military Science Public Health Social Work Faculty Research & Scholarship Centers/Institutes Faculty & Staff Show Extended Faculty & Staff Directory CSUF Faculty Development Center Support the College Future Students Show Extended Degrees & Majors Visit the Campus Apply Online Student Success Community Engagement Scholarships Alumni Load Social Media Icons Academic Notice Advising Connect to HHD HHD Clubs & Organizations HHD-ICC Living Learning Community Peer Mentor Program Student Success Team Other Resources CONNECT to HHD has been designed to support and enhance the first-year experience of incoming students. Our goal is to ensure a successful transition to CSUF through delivered workshops and events. Events hosted by CONNECT to HHD encourage students to network and create a support system with HHD staff, faculty, and fellow student peers. The workshops offered will provide students the opportunity to develop holistically and attain key skills for a successful first year through topics such as transitioning into CSUF, time management, understanding the Titan Degree Audit, stress management and wellness, and more. Create connections Optimize opportunities Navigate the university life Network with fellow peers Empower yourself Captivate your greatest potential Transform your college experience PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS Participants will attend the following programs during the academic year: FALL SEMESTER Welcome Event Workshop #1 (September) Workshop #2 (October) Workshop #3 (November) SPRING SEMESTER Workshop #4 (February) Workshop #5 (March) Workshop #6 (April) *Workshops will cover topics that will support transition to CSUF *Additional social events may be added based on student needs COMMUNITY EXPECTATIONS All CONNECT to HHD participants are expected to follow these recommendations: Attend every scheduled event Read through bi-weekly CONNECT to HHD newsletter Intentionally engage in workshops Maintain communication with CONNECT to HHD team Understand that CONNECT to HHD is a safe space Have fun, bring positive vibes, and believe in yourself! QUALIFICATIONS In order to be a part of the CONNECT to HHD program, applicants must: Be an incoming freshmen or transfer student Submit an application *Participants will be selected on a first-come, first-served basis 2021-2022 APPLICATION tinyurl.com/connecttohhd2021 CONTACT Denise Barragan College Advisor debarragan@fullerton.edu EC 687 This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development. Last Published 4/11/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.