Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Child and Adolescent Studies Main Navigation About Us Show Extended About the Department Student Learning Goals and Outcomes CAS Advisory Board Contact Us Degree Show Extended CAS Majors CAS Minors Current Academic Roadmaps Integrated Teacher Education Program Faculty Show Extended Faculty Open Full Time Faculty Positions Open Part Time Faculty Positions Lecturer Entitlements Research Show Extended CAS Research Undergrad Opportunities Parents Interested in Research Center for Autism Current Students Show Extended Practicum/Fieldwork Advisement Course Petition Peer Mentor Program Study Abroad CASSA Student & Alumni Success Scholarships Commencement APA Tutorials CAS Tutoring Services Additional Resources Diversity and Equity Prospective Students Support the Department Show Extended Support the Department Support the International Fund Support the Scholarship Fund Load Social Media Icons Reaching Higher in Child and Adolescent Studies Our Department's Mission & Goals Advisement Degree Options Practicum Research Scholarships Alumni Success CAS Titans Reach Higher 4 Major Options to Choose From 2 Minors to Choose From 22 Research Oriented Faculty Members Our curriculum provides broad undergraduate preparation for students interested in early care and education, elementary education, special education, and a variety of youth-related social service careers, as well as graduate study in disciplines such as child development, counseling, developmental psychology, and social work. Advisor Information During their first semester as a major, students are required to view the CAS Major Overview online and are expected to consult with a department adviser to develop an academic plan to ensure efficient progress towards graduation. Academic Advisors Major & CA Early Childhood Development Permit Advisor Professor Sarah Shawesh Major & CA Early Childhood Development Permit Advisor Dr. Sharon Seidman Schedule an Appointment Program Mission & Goals Our mission is threefold: To prepare students with the knowledge and skills necessary to be effective professionals working with diverse populations in school, service, and community settings To conduct developmentally informed research with implications for practice To make significant contributions to the community through fieldwork and service Our Goals: Enhance student learning through ongoing program assessment and implementation of program improvement strategies Promote student success though effective advisement and support Expand access to our courses and programs to meet student demand and community needs Increase student engagement through participation in high impact practices Support research and scholarly activities that advance our understanding of developmental processes Enhance our visibility and connectedness to alumni and the community This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.