Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Public Health Main Navigation About US Show Extended Mission Statement Chair's Welcome Advisory Board Contact Us UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM Show Extended Bachelor of Science Minor in Public Health Minor in Pre-Health Professions Nutrition for A Changing World Course Catalog MPH PROGRAM FACULTY & STAFF CENTERS/INSTITUTES Show Extended Center for Cancer Disparities Research Center for The Promotion of Healthy Lifestyles Fibromyalgia & Chronic Pain Center Health Promotion Research Institute Wincart SUPPORT THE DEPARTMENT Current Students Show Extended PUBH 495 Orientation Scholarships/Awards Organizations CHES/CHP Prospective Undergraduate Students Prospective MPH Students COVID-19 Show Extended COVID-19 Vaccine COVID-19 Information COVID-19 and Self-Care Student Health Insurance COVID-19 & Health Equity Pandemic and Student Basic Needs Racism & Health Equity Show Extended Racism & Health Equity APIDA Resolution Load Social Media Icons Academic Programs BACHELOR OF SCIENCE, PUBLIC HEALTH The Bachelor of Science degree program in public health provides graduates with an understanding of a wide range of health-related topics including: core functions and disciplines of public health, diseases and their causes, distributions of diseases, risk factors and prevention, behavior-change theory and application, health promotion program design, and research and evaluation. This degree strongly emphasizes problem-solving skills and critical thinking while providing a solid foundation in public health. MASTER OF SCIENCE, PUBLIC HEALTH The Master of Public Health (MPH) degree combines the study of the biological, physical, psychological, economic, and social forces affecting the health of human populations. The degree’s curriculum seeks to analyze not only the nature and context of public health problems, but also the organizational, behavioral, socio-cultural, and political constraints to ameliorating these problems. Through experiences in and out of the classroom, students develop the habit of intellectual inquiry, prepare for challenging professions, strengthen relationships to their communities and contribute productively to society. This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development.. Last Published 9/29/20 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.4 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.