Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Counseling Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Statement Chair's Welcome Faculty Contact Us Degree Program Show Extended Program Overview Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis LMFT & LPCC Licensure Info Advisement Curriculum Classification and Advancement to Candidacy Admissions Show Extended Admission Requirements Program Prerequisites How to Apply Current Students Show Extended Student Handbook Clinical Training Handbook County/State MFT County Stipend Graduate Studies Scholarship Info Final Project Abstracts Student Organizations Useful Links Accreditation Show Extended CACREP Student Learning Outcomes Student Learning Outcome Assessment Results Alumni Center for Boys & Men Support the Department Load Social Media Icons Gallery Loading....please wait Our department humbly strives to recognize and honor human dignity by promoting equity, inclusion, and respect. We believe that Black Lives Matter as we challenge white supremacy and strive to create spaces where all can flourish. When Black Lives Matter and we deconstruct white supremacist notions, then all communities will be free from oppression. We stand in solidarity to support intersectional identities and prepare counselors to engage in socially just practice. We would like to take a moment to recognize the Gabrielino Tongva People, the First People of the Greater Los Angeles Basin. From time immemorial they have lived and thrived in their ancestral land known as Tovaangar. They are the original scions of this land and one of their closest village(s) known as Hotuuknga /Hutuknga, is where California State University of Fullerton has been established. Hotuuknga /Hutuknga means, "night, for at the beginning of the world, they went no more in the night". The other village name ran along Brea Canyon is Unknown. We acknowledge the unratified treaties and unkept promises to the Gabrielino Tongva Nation and We unite with them in solidarity by recognizing the truth of their continued existence and their sovereignty. We commit to support their dream, their journey, and their goal of federal restoration of their sovereignty and self-determination as a Nation. DEAR COUNSELING DEPARTMENT COMMUNITY, We want to acknowledge the stress, particularly the mental health stress, that is gripping our communities and the world at large due to the COVID-19 virus. As difficult as this situation is, we believe that there will be innovations in teaching, supervision, counseling, and social justice action that emerge from this time. Right now, for example, our students are learning to conduct web-based counseling, providing a vital community service during this time of social isolation. Counselors can be a force for calm in this crisis, and the care of people struggling with mental health issues is more important now than ever. As a faculty, we are committed to supporting each other and to making sure our students receive the best possible education, one that rises to the challenge of these times. We are all in this together. Practice kindness and compassion. We hope you are safe and well. Our Department's Mission & Goals Admissions Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis Current Students Alumni Accreditation & Program Evaluation Faculty & Staff Serving the Community 3-5 Year Program, Flexible Pace 2 Eligible for LPCC & LMFT 40+ Practicum Agencies Our program prepares students to seek the Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist license and the Licensed Professional Clinical Counselor credentials. The training program emphasizes human diversity, self-growth, and a positive learning environment, where you will feel the support of the faculty. Admissions Information Applicants may apply for the Fall 2022 M.S. in Counseling Traditional Program starting October 1, 2021 and the deadline for applications is February 1, 2022. For more detailed information regarding the application process If you have any questions after visiting our website please contact our Prospective Student Advisor at applycounseling@fullerton.edu. Applicants may apply for the Spring 2025 M.S. in Counseling Evening Cohort starting August 1, 2024 and the deadline for applications is October 1, 2024. For more detailed information regarding the program and upcoming information sessions please visit the M.S. in Counseling, University Extension and International Programs website Prospective Student Advising Appointments Please note that advising appointments setup through this website are only for the Master of Science in Counseling program. If you have questions related to University Admissions or Academic Advising, please contact those departments directly because I am only able to assist prospective students for the Master of Science in Counseling program. If you are interested in the Master of Science in Counseling program and would like to set up an in-person advising appointment or a phone appointment to talk at a specific time, please fill out your information here Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis This is a new, and only, emphasis within the M.S. Department of Counseling designed to address the various professional, curricular/training, and community needs related to providing mental health services to Latinx and Spanish-speaking clients. The Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis will provide trainees course curriculum that: meets requirements to pursue licensure as Professional Clinical Counselors and Marriage and Family therapists in California; is grounded in nationally-approved competencies and; focuses on developing self-awareness as a bilingual and bicultural counselor, knowledge of Latinx-cultures and familiarity with interventions appropriate to Latinx and Spanish-speaking clients. CACREP ACCREDITATION The Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP), a specialized accrediting body recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA), has granted accreditation until March 31, 2023, to the following program in the Department of Counseling at California State University, Fullerton: Clinical Mental Health Counseling (M.S.). For more information on CACREP, please visit their web site, www.cacrep.org. Counsel for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP) This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 First Previous Next Last Exit This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.