Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Human Services Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission & Welcome Accreditation Resources Contact Us Degree Show Extended Exploring Human Services Major Minor Academic Roadmap Current Students Show Extended Advisement Fieldwork HUSR Online Graduate Advice HSSA Transfer Student Orientation Faculty Show Extended Our Faculty Three Year Appointment Eligibility List Support the Department Load Social Media Icons Reaching Higher in Human Services Our Department's Mission & Goals Degree Advisement Fieldwork HUSR Online HSSA Alumni Human Services Titans Reach Higher 6 Specialized Career Tracks 14 Competent Full-Time Faculty ∞ Opportunities Within Human Services Through the application of theory, research, and self-reflection, the Human Services Department prepares students to serve diverse individuals, families and communities. Accreditation Council on Standards in Human Services Education (CSHSE) Accreditation Organization The CSHSE is committed to assuring the quality, consistency, and relevance of human service education through research-based standards and a peer-review, accreditation process. Our vision is to promote excellence in human service education, provide quality assurance, and support standards of performance and practice through the accreditation process. The CSHSE National Standards are based on national research of human service educational programs that are grounded in relationship with service providers in their communities. In addition, the Standards have been confirmed through external research (see the Community Support Skill Standards) and the continuing emergence of the human services field since the early 1970s. Over the years, the language of the Standards has been updated and clarified based on the self-studies and input from CSHSE Members. The Human Services Department at California State University, Fullerton has been accredited by CSHSE since 1982. Advisement The Human Services Department Office offers an array of help for Human Services students. Not only can our expert staff help answer your questions, but they are there to help guide you to the answers you seek. For assistance either stop by our office or contact us by phone. We look forward to helping you! Department Office: Located in EC-405 Phone: (657) 278-8444 Fax: (657) 278-8530 You can now use the button below to schedule your HUSR advisement appointment. This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.