Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Main Navigation About Us Show Extended About Us Dean's Office Strategic Plan CHHD Organizational Chart Contact Us Academics Show Extended School of Nursing Child and Adolescent Studies Counseling Human Services Kinesiology Military Science Public Health Social Work Faculty Research & Scholarship Centers/Institutes Faculty & Staff Show Extended Faculty & Staff Directory CSUF Faculty Development Center Support the College Future Students Show Extended Degrees & Majors Visit the Campus Apply Online Student Success Community Engagement Scholarships Alumni Load Social Media Icons Community Engagement Nursing CSUF School of Nursing students in their Community Health course helped feed and prepare food for the homeless. CSUF Health Fair applies community health theory in an enjoyable public health event that promotes healthy eating and hydration as well as good hygiene. The Flu Fighters Clinic administers free flu shots for CSUF students. The Community Action Poverty Simulation exposes students to real life simulations of family prototypes they will have to work with once in the field. Nursing students engage in 16-20 hours of fieldwork each week in social work agencies, collaborating with over 120 public or private non-profit agencies on a daily basis. Child & Adolescent Studies Students must complete two practicums as part of the major. Each of these requires at least 60 hours of field work with children or families. Community placement includes elementary schools, early childhood education centers, non-profit organizations, after school programs, and youth development programs. Jumpstart is a leading national nonprofit organization working toward the day every child in America enters kindergarten prepared to succeed. The Center for Internships & Community Engagement launched the Jumpstart program in Fall 2003 at Cal State Fullerton. Jumpstart Fullerton is a collaborative service-learning program between the Center for Internships & Community Engagement and the Child and Adolescent Studies Department. Jumpstart Fullerton is an AmeriCorps program that pairs college students, called Corps members, with preschool children to build language, literacy, and social skills necessary to succeed not just in school, but also in life. Resilient Families Program is a parent-child intervention designed to increase connectedness, lower stress, and promote self-regulation for families. The program involves approximately 20 CSUF students per year who help with all components of implementation and evaluation. The CAS Department and the CSUF Center for Autism collaborate in partnering with local agencies who provide behavioral intervention services to children with autism spectrum disorder. The most prominent component of this community partnership has been the development of a CAS fieldwork course specifically focused on training in these empirically-supported services, providing career opportunities for CSUF students and increasing our ability to meet the need for trained personnel in Orange County. Faculty participate in multiple advisory boards and counsels in Orange County related to children and families, such as Early Childhood OC and Orange County for Education of Young Children . Counseling Students complete 700 hours of fieldwork as part of their master’s degree, and 280 of those are direct client contact hours doing psychotherapy. Students begin working as therapists in non-profit community agencies by third or fourth semesters, with the program maintaining strong links to community non-profit organizations throughout Southern California. CSUF partnerships with the Center for Healthy Neighborhoods and Western Digital to provide various STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) activities for children of low-income families. Mother/Father parental workshops and support are also part of the family event. Human Services Students are required to serve in 3 different internships as part of their degree. We facilitate this by being connected to 180 of our own agencies in the community. Human Services faculty regularly connect with the community as guest speakers, and to do training. Kinesiology Student promote physical activity at local parks by talking with community residents. The students apply the skills of motivational interviewing, goal-setting and dealing with barriers as they help residents become more physically active. Program invites parents and children to participate in a research study exploring parental influences and physical activity. Military Science Titan Battalion Cadets are dedicated members of the community. CSUF Army ROTC offers several community outreach opportunities to support the local environment and improve public institutions. Public Health The Center for Healthy Lifestyles promotes interdisciplinary research and community outreach in areas related to children’s health and weight management. The Center for Cancer Disparities Research addresses the increasing burden of health disparities in the community, particularly in racial/ethnic minority groups. Social Work Graduate Social Work students engage in 16-20 hours of fieldwork each week in social work agencies, collaborating with over 120 public or private non-profit agencies such as the CSUF Center for Healthy Neighborhoods. Engage in global service-learning activities which are integrated components of an elective course, "International Social Work." Every spring semester, Social Work students travel to Sacramento to participate in NASW-CA Legislative Lobby Days, which is a two-day event that educates students and professionals about important legislation affecting clients and the social work profession. Masters of Social Work Student Association (MSWA) provides a variety of community services throughout the year such as "Food for Families" and "Mentoring for Change." This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development. Last Published 4/11/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.