Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Counseling Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Statement Chair's Welcome Faculty Contact Us Degree Program Show Extended Program Overview Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis LMFT & LPCC Licensure Info Advisement Curriculum Classification and Advancement to Candidacy Admissions Show Extended Admission Requirements Program Prerequisites How to Apply Current Students Show Extended Student Handbook Clinical Training Handbook County/State MFT County Stipend Graduate Studies Scholarship Info Final Project Abstracts Student Organizations Useful Links Accreditation Show Extended CACREP Student Learning Outcomes Student Learning Outcome Assessment Results Alumni Center for Boys & Men Support the Department Load Social Media Icons Program Overview Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis LPCC & LMFT Licensure Info Advisement Curriculum Classification and Advancement to Candidacy Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis The Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis is a new component of the California State University Fullerton M.S. Department of Counseling designed to address the professional, curricular, and training needs of mental health counselors working with Latinx and Spanish-speaking clients. The Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis provides trainees course curriculum that meets requirements to pursue licensure as Marriage and Family Therapists or Professional Clinical Counselors in California and is grounded in nationally-approved competencies: Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related-Educational Programs, CACREP and the American Counseling Association, ACA. Furthermore, the Ánimo Emphasis focuses on developing self-awareness as a bilingual and bicultural counselor, knowledge of Latinx-cultures and therapeutic-Spanish, familiarity with interventions appropriate to Latinx and Spanish-speaking clients, and social justice advocacy for issues relevant to the Latinx community. Although there will be ample opportunities to build therapeutic Spanish-speaking skills, the courses will emphasize bilingual/bicultural counseling skills and be held in both English and Spanish (and primarily in English) to meet the trainees’ needs. Need for Culturally Competent Training The new Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis addresses three important needs. First, within the professional mental health fields (e.g., counseling, psychology, social work) there is a high need for graduate programs to provide culturally-competent, cultural humility, social justice advocacy, and linguistically-appropriate curriculum, training, and supervision. Second, within the Latinx community, there is also a high need for bilingual (in Spanish) and bicultural clinicians with skills in cultural competency, cultural humility, social justice advocacy, and therapeutic-Spanish speaking; all of which improve engagement, assessment, conceptualization, and treatment. Finally, there is an equally high need for this specialized training and supervision for Master’s level trainees. Given the demographics in the United States of the Latinx population at the local, state, and national levels, this much-needed program is one of a handful of programs nationwide to provide this important instruction, training, and supervision designed to ultimately serve the mental health needs of the Latinx community. Description of the New Emphasis The new Ánimo: Latinx Counseling Emphasis is embedded within the wider M.S. Department of Counseling. Of the total 63-units for the Master’s degree, the Ánimo Emphasis consists of 5 core courses (COUN 511B, COUN 522B, COUN 527B, COUN 530B, and COUN 584B). These 5 courses have equivalent content and process than the non-Ánimo courses; however, the application of the material is focused on Latinx clients. Students must first be accepted into the Department of Counseling program before applying to the emphasis. There are also a pre-requisite and an exit-requirement of spoken-Spanish competency and the 5 courses are taught by bicultural and bilingual professors. The number of units required for graduation will remain the same as for non-emphasis students: 63-units. Courses will be taught primarily in English with plenty of opportunities to practice and build therapeutic spoken-Spanish skills. Language Competency Requirement Students applying to this emphasis will need to meet a pre-requisite of basic spoken-Spanish skills and an exit-requirement of at least intermediate spoken-Spanish. Given the nature of talk therapy, the focus will be on spoken-Spanish. The language pre-requisite and exit-requirement may be met in a number of ways. The pre-requisite may be met by completing: (1) a comparable undergrad Spanish-language course, (2) a competency verbal/spoken test with Counseling and Spanish bilingual faculty, or (3) SPAN 306. The exit-requirement may be met by completing: (1) SPAN 306, (2) SPAN 307 (if both SPAN 306 and SPAN 307 are completed, both CSUF courses, the student may earn the Spanish for Health and Human Services Professions Certificate), or (3) a competency verbal/spoken test with Counseling and Spanish bilingual faculty. Courses The five Ánimo Emphasis courses (of the wider 63-unit program) retain the same content as the non-emphasis courses; however in the Ánimo courses the focus of the discussion and application of the concepts will be within the context of the Latinx clients/community. The Ánimo Emphasis courses are as follows: FALL (first semester): COUN 511B: Pre-Practicum for Ánimo Emphasis SUMMER (first and/or second summer): COUN 522B: Diagnosis and Treatment Planning for Ánimo Emphasis FALL (second fall smester) COUN 527B: Systems of Family Counseling for Ánimo Emphasis SEMESTER VARIES: COUN 530B: Practicum for Ánimo Emphasis COUN 584B: Advanced Practicum for Ánimo Emphasis The Ánimo Emphasis will focus on clinical issues related to Latinx and Spanish-speaking clients, including: anti-Black racism within Latinx community, acculturation, immigration, cultural value systems, intergenerational family conflict, ethnic identity, similarities and differences among Latinx sub-groups, and intersectionality of identities (race, gender/gender identity, romantic/sexual orientation, disability, religion, social class, etc.). At the completion of the Ánimo Latinx Counseling Emphasis, students will have their accomplishment noted on their degree/transcript and receive a special sash/stole to be worn during graduation. Please Note: The Ánimo Emphasis is not currently offered in the M.S. in Counseling Evening Cohort program. For further information contact: Olga Mejía, PhD, Associate Professor, omejia@fullerton.edu This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.