Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Public Health Main Navigation About US Show Extended Mission Statement Chair's Welcome Advisory Board Contact Us UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM Show Extended Bachelor of Science Minor in Public Health Minor in Pre-Health Professions Nutrition for A Changing World Course Catalog MPH PROGRAM FACULTY & STAFF CENTERS/INSTITUTES Show Extended Center for Cancer Disparities Research Center for The Promotion of Healthy Lifestyles Fibromyalgia & Chronic Pain Center Health Promotion Research Institute Wincart SUPPORT THE DEPARTMENT Current Students Show Extended PUBH 495 Orientation Scholarships/Awards Organizations CHES/CHP Prospective Undergraduate Students Prospective MPH Students COVID-19 Show Extended COVID-19 Vaccine COVID-19 Information COVID-19 and Self-Care Student Health Insurance COVID-19 & Health Equity Pandemic and Student Basic Needs Racism & Health Equity Show Extended Racism & Health Equity APIDA Resolution Load Social Media Icons Reaching Higher in Public Health Our Department's Mission & Goals Programs Academic Advising Centers & Institutes Community Engagement Faculty Research Scholarships/Awards Improving Public Health 6 Concentrations and Advisory Tracks 3 Master of Public Health Tracks 5 Centers and Institutes The Department of Public Health (previously Health Science) aspires to prepare individuals and communities with the knowledge and skills to advance health and wellness, and to instill a commitment to meet the public health challenges of the 21st century. OC HEALTHIER TOGETHER <p>Your browser does not support frames.</p> Orange County’s Healthier Together is a community-wide initiative that aligns public and private resources within the public health system to improve health for all communities in Orange County. This initiative is led by the Health Improvement Partnership (HIP). News & Highlights Healthy Campus Week Sept 24-28 Department of Public Health announces new BS in Public Health degree Meet faculty member Dr. Phil Gedalanga. Dr. Dara Vazin creates a new course on spirituality and health. Read about Dr. Archana McEligot's "Big Data Discovery and Diversity" student training grant activities. Dr. Shana Charles weighs in on the likelihood of health insurance coverage for video game-linked disorders. This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development.. Last Published 5/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.