Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Join Our Team Donate Mailing List Who We Are Overview Our People Join Our Team What We Do Humanitarian Academy Research and Translation Knowledge Hub Site Search Search Research and Education for Communities in Humanitarian Crisis About Us The Harvard Humanitarian Initiative (HHI) is a university-wide academic and research center in humanitarian crisis and leadership. Our mission is to create new knowledge and advance evidence-based leadership in disasters and humanitarian crisis. Our work focuses on two main areas: the Humanitarian Academy at Harvard and Research & Translation. Find out More Humanitarian Academy at Harvard HHI produces a variety of online and in-person trainings designed to prepare students, practitioners and emerging leaders to succeed in the humanitarian field. Find out more Professional Education Programs to train emerging leaders, executives, and practitioners on best practices to maximize impact in their humanitarian work. Online Education Free online courses that focus on the fundamentals of humanitarian response. Harvard Students Activities and offerings to prepare Harvard Graduate and Undergraduate students to enter humanitarian careers. Research and Translation HHI programs explore topics critical to communities affected by crises, such as disaster preparedness, risk resilience, humanitarian negotiation, gender-based violence, program evaluation, and the ethical use of data in humanitarian settings. Find out more Humanitarian Strategies Investigates how to advance the humanitarian field, focusing on the critical areas of negotiation, leadership, education, and evaluation. Risk, Resilience, and Response Examines the impact of complex humanitarian emergencies and aims to find ways to improve resilience and response. Technology and Innovation Explores the impact of emerging technologies on the humanitarian field, focusing on both ethical and technical considerations. Latest Updates Building a Better Response: Ukrainian and Polish e-Learning Translations Monday, May 23, 2022 Preparing the next generation of humanitarian leaders Tuesday, May 3, 2022 Humanitarian Crisis in Ukraine: Scaling Up Our Support Thursday, May 12, 2022 New Blog: DRRM policies, financial aid needed in small island communities—HHI study Friday, February 11, 2022 More Featured Course Building a Better Response Free online course that aims to strengthen the capacity of humanitarian practitioners. Links to an external site. Field Perspectives Video Series In the face of crisis, one female humanitarian in Yemen coordinate logistics for international humanitarian organizations. This is the story of how logistician Farah Altarifi entered a male dominated part of the humanitarian sector. 14 Story Street, 2nd Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 hhi@harvard.edu Join Our Team Donate Mailing List Privacy Policy 15ded15fbd8e2bdc8c488753a642b6b9 952171b229209bbdf6004c08f6d9b8fa e124cd3d5abddfdc65a5fa94558ad6a6 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement