Skip to main content Center for Jewish Life Princeton Hillel Search form Search VIDEOS DONATE Toggle navigation About Blog Board of Directors CJL Staff CJL Honorary Trustees CJL Videos - Transforming Jewish Life on Campus Czech Memorial Scroll Torah History Impact Report Mission Our Building Photo Galleries Princeton Faculty and Staff Student Experience Student Groups Engagement Travel Shabbat & Holidays CJL Shabbat Wellness Initiative Israel Social Justice Jewish Learning JGRAD - Jewish Graduate Students Kosher Dining Blog Prayer & Service Times Co-Create Prospective Students FAQs Visit Ask a Question Events Alumni & Parents Support Contact Kosher Dining Hundreds of Princeton students take advantage of our popular dining hall every day. Students of all backgrounds, Jewish and non-Jewish, eat here because the food is great (our chocolate chip cookies are favorites), because there's a warm and welcoming atmosphere, and because we are located in the heart of campus. Whether students are between classes or on their way back to their residential college, they will often choose to eat here for lunch or dinner. We provide twenty meals a week and anyone on the Princeton meal plan can eat here. Our University-run dining facility is supervised by the Orthodox Union (OU). Princeton University prioritizes accommodating religious observance and food allergies in a way that doesn't limit students from interacting with the entire community. You can really feel that sentiment when you are enjoying a delicious meal with friends at the CJL dining hall. PLEASE NOTE: COVID RESTRICTIONS IN PLACE The CJL dining hall is only open to students, faculty and staff who are participating in the university's Covid testing protocol. Paying for Dining Menu CJL Dining Hall Hours Student Experience Student Groups Engagement Travel Shabbat & Holidays CJL Shabbat Wellness Initiative Israel Social Justice Jewish Learning JGRAD - Jewish Graduate Students Kosher Dining Blog Prayer & Service Times Co-Create The CJL's kosher dining hall, open to all students on campus, has enabled me to maintain my friendships with Jews in the community and with non-Jewish friends outside the community. Because of the location and amazing quality of food, I am able to catch up with all my friends from my classes over lunch. - Ben '23 Center for Jewish Life, Hillel 70 Washington Rd Princeton, NJ 08540 (609) 258-3635 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University