Jump to navigation About Our House Dining Hall History House Office Info Center Mail and Packages Take a Look Inside Hill FAQs People Hill Faculty Program Communities Benjamin Franklin Scholars Academic Resources Majors and More Dinners Mayor's Scholars Resources in the College Houses Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Room Change Information Room Dimensions Room Rates and Policies Room Reservations Room Reservation Photos Room Reservation Policy Policies & Information Collection/Charity Boxes & Donation Policy Entrance and Entry Poster, Flyering, Leafleting, Chalking & Tabling Policy Residential Handbook Services & Operations Facilities Service Maintenance Requests Hill Loan Library Laundry Web Alert Residential Services Getting Help College Houses Technology Help Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) Cultural Centers Email Us Emergency Resources Facilities Services Housing & Conference Services Public Safety Student Health Join The Hill Team Hill College Cup Manager Hill House Council Hill House Student Managers Hill RAGA Staff Social Media Links Facebook Flickr Instagram Twitter Snapchat Calendar PennKey Login You are here Front Page Home About The Photo No other College House has Hill's sweeping courtyard, fountain, bustling dining hall, intimate shutters, and stunning artwork entitled "The Apotheosis of Franklin" (1926) by N.C. Wyeth. About The Photo Hill, as seen from the intersection of 33rd and Walnut Streets, is located within easy reach of much of campus. About The Photo Hill's entrance "drawbridge" was envisioned by the architect as a way to secure the campus's first dorm for women. Now a home for Penn undergrads of every gender and academic pursuit, it also provides a place to relax before joining the active life of the House. About The Photo Hill College House was closed from for the 2016-17 academic year so it could receive an $80 million renovation. With fresh student rooms, public gathering and study spaces, and now air conditioning throughout, Hill is ready to continue its history of creating great Penn communities. Welcome To Hill Hello and welcome to Hill College House! We are known as “the most social house” due to our ability to build community and foster a place where our residents feel at home. Hill residents are likely to find lots of friends by attending our programs and house events, as well as by taking advantage of the over 40 lounge and recreational spaces we have to offer. We are home to almost 500 first year residents and we love the energy, inventiveness, and atmosphere of our community. Over the summer, we will be working to update our site to provide the most up to date information. Please check back in August for more information on your RA and our upcoming events during New Student Orientation. About Our House Dining Hall History House Office Info Center Mail and Packages Take a Look Inside Hill FAQs People Hill Faculty Program Communities Benjamin Franklin Scholars Academic Resources Majors and More Dinners Mayor's Scholars Resources in the College Houses Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Room Change Information Room Dimensions Room Rates and Policies Room Reservations Room Reservation Photos Room Reservation Policy Policies & Information Collection/Charity Boxes & Donation Policy Entrance and Entry Poster, Flyering, Leafleting, Chalking & Tabling Policy Residential Handbook Services & Operations Facilities Service Maintenance Requests Hill Loan Library Laundry Web Alert Residential Services Getting Help College Houses Technology Help Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) Cultural Centers Email Us Emergency Resources Facilities Services Housing & Conference Services Public Safety Student Health Join The Hill Team Hill College Cup Manager Hill House Council Hill House Student Managers Hill RAGA Staff Social Media Links Facebook Flickr Instagram Twitter Snapchat Calendar PennKey Login PennKey Login Search Wed 29 First Session Classes End 06/29/2022 - 12:00am to 12:00pm Thu 30 Second Session Classes Begin 06/30/2022 - 12:00am to 12:00pm Mon 4 Independence Day (no classes) 07/04/2022 - 12:00am to 12:00pm Fri 5 Second Session/Eleven-Week Session classes end 08/05/2022 - 12:00am to 12:00pm Hill College House Office Phone (215) 898-5237 In case of an emergency, call Penn Police at (215) 573-3333 or dial 511 from a campus telephone. Office Email Contact hill@collegehouses.upenn.edu Office Hours 9am-5pm. The house office is located in the Atrium, Room A236. House Address 3333 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 View on Map Copyright ©2016 Office of College Houses & Academic Services | Privacy | Disclaimer | Send Feedback | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help