Skip to main content Center for Jewish Life Princeton Hillel Search form Search VIDEOS DONATE Toggle navigation About Blog Board of Directors CJL Staff CJL Honorary Trustees CJL Videos - Transforming Jewish Life on Campus Czech Memorial Scroll Torah History Impact Report Mission Our Building Photo Galleries Princeton Faculty and Staff Student Experience Student Groups Engagement Travel Shabbat & Holidays CJL Shabbat Wellness Initiative Israel Social Justice Jewish Learning JGRAD - Jewish Graduate Students Kosher Dining Blog Prayer & Service Times Co-Create Prospective Students FAQs Visit Ask a Question Events Alumni & Parents Support Contact Saluting our Seniors - Class of 2022 Enjoy this yearbook highlighting some of our spectacular seniors. We will miss you and look forward to seeing you again for Shabbat and reunions. Gift from Karen and David Mandelbaum '57 names new dining facility at CJL May 26, 2022 by Advancement Communications David Mandelbaum ’57 and his wife, Karen Mandelbaum, have made a gift to the Center for Jewish Life at Princeton University as part of the Venture Forward campaign that will make possible renovation and expansion of the center’s main kitchen and dining facilities. The Mandelbaum Family Dining Pavilion will allow the Center for Jewish Life to serve a student population that has increased significantly since it opened nearly 30 years ago. CJL announces Rabbi Gil Steinlauf '91 to become new Exec. Dir. Marc Mehl '87 CJL Board Chair announced new executive director in this letter to the community on May 24, 2022. I am delighted to share with you that Rabbi Gil Steinlauf '91, will be joining the Center for Jewish Life as our new Executive Director this summer. Rabbi Gil is a Princeton alumnus who has dedicated his life to teaching, inspiring leaders, and creating a vibrant Jewish community. Hillel Giving Week There is still time to give before year-end. CJL Admissions Video Want to learn more about exploring Jewish life at Princeton? Get the inside scoop about Jewish life on campus from Rabbi Julie Roth, Executive Director and the people who know best, our amazing Center for Jewish Life (CJL) student leaders! CJL Impact Report View CJL's 2020-2021 Impact Report Here Quicklinks Impact Report Student Groups Visit Contact Us Giving Service Times Kosher Dining Donate Now! Center for Jewish Life, Hillel 70 Washington Rd Princeton, NJ 08540 (609) 258-3635 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Updated on May 27, 2022