STAR-A UH Mānoa Innovation University of Hawaiʻi Laulima Skip to content Connecting Learning, Life and Aloha ‘O ka ‘imi na‘auao, ke ola a me ke aloha kā kākou e huliāmahi ai Admissions UH Hilo Now MyUH Vulcan Athletics Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Search Kūlia i ka nuʻu. Strive to reach the highest. What Do We Offer? Current Classes Degrees Financial Aid Housing Tuition What is it like at UH Hilo? FYE First Year Experience UH Hilo at a Glance Student Recreation Virtual Events Visit Campus Pūpūkahi i holomua. Unite to move forward. Student Support Advising Current Student Resources Financial Aid FYE First Year Experience Housing Library Registrar Student Employment Student Recreation Student Services Current Classes Laulima STAR UH Email ʻIke aku, ʻike mai, kōkua aku, kōkua mai; pēlā ihola ka nohona ʻohana. Acknowledge and be acknowledged, help and be helped; this is the way. Faculty and Staff Chancellor’s Blog Faculty & Staff Resources Help Desk Human Resources Keaohou - Research & Scholarly Activities Phone Directory COVID-19 Information Faculty Links Current Classes Laulima STAR Registrar Forms Mookini Library Academic Calendar E lawe i ke aʻo a mālama, a e ʻoi mau ka naʻauao. Take what you have learned and apply it, and your knowledge will grow. Alumni STAR Give a Gift UH Email UH Hilo Stories UH Hilo Student Crisis Fund Vulcan V.I.B.E. Hoʻomoe wai kāhi ke kāoʻo. Forward together in unity. Community Resources Center for Community Engagement Community Library Resources Internships Make a Gift Performing Arts Center UH Cooperative Education ʻAʻohe hana nui ke alu ʻia. No task is too great when working together. Website Searches Search the UH Hilo Website: Website search Search the phone directory: Phone search Search the Hawaiian dictionaries: Dictionary search Additional Resources A to Z Index Campus Maps University of Hawaiʻi at Hilo Apply Now Apply now Your Journey is Our Focus. An educational experience rooted in place, culture and diversity, inspired by you… 1010 of the 14 world climate zones exist on the Island of Hawai‘i #1One of the Most Diverse National Universities according to U.S. News & World Report 85+Academic degrees and certificates rooted in Hawaiian language and culture Areas of Study College of Agriculture, Forestry and Natural Resource Management The purpose of the College of Agriculture, Forestry, and Natural Resource Management (CAFNRM) is to provide quality education to assist individuals in acquiring the scientific knowledge, attitudes, and practical skills needed to practice environmentally sound, sustainable agriculture and to be productive and responsible global citizens. College of Arts and Sciences The purpose of the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) is to provide quality education in the liberal arts and sciences, as well as a select group of high quality professional and pre-professional programs. College of Business and Economics The College of Business and Economics (COBE) prepares students for leadership in organizations serving Hawaiʻi and the Asia/Pacific region. College of Natural and Health Sciences The College of Natural and Health Sciences (CNHS) provides rigorous, practical and high-quality education, preparing you to pursue careers or graduate work. Daniel K. Inouye College of Pharmacy The Daniel K. Inouye College of Pharmacy (DKICP) is a four-year educational and experiential program through which students pursue the Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) degree. Ka Haka ʻUla O Keʻelikōlani College of Hawaiian Language Ka Haka ʻUla O Keʻelikōlani College of Hawaiian Language assures the revitalization and continued advancement and growth of the Hawaiian language and mauli ola Hawaiʻi. Important Dates Academic Deadlines View academic calendars Events/Announcements View more events/announcements Vulcan Games View the Vulcan schedules UH Hilo Stories Loading UH Hilo Stories… Vulcan V.I.B.E. Stories From Our UH Hilo ʻOhana Vulcan V.I.B.E. Vulcan V.I.B.E. Alumni Vulcan V.I.B.E. Faculty Vulcan V.I.B.E. Students Vulcan V.I.B.E. Staff More About Us UH Hilo Leadership Vision and Mission Emergency Preparedness Consumer Information and Disclosures COVID-19 Information Request more info 200 W. Kāwili St., Hilo, Hawaiʻi 96720-4091 Tel: (808) 932-7446 or 1-800-897-4456 Fax: (808) 932-7459 Resources Accessibility Campus life Maps Title IX UH Hilo Now Website privacy & policies Connect UH Hilo social media stream UH Hilo on Facebook UH Hilo on Instagram UH Hilo on Twitter UH Hilo on YouTube Apply Give a gift Request info Visit campus © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi at Hilo, an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action institution and a campus of the University of Hawaiʻi system. Top