Skip to content COVID-19 Update: Learn how HILR is operating during the pandemic. Read the Update Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement (HILR) Harvard Division of Continuing Education About HILR Member Spotlights Courses Activities & Events Applying to HILR Community Login Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement (HILR) Harvard Division of Continuing Education About Us Member Spotlights Courses Activities and Events Join Our Community Contact Us Community Login COVID-19 Updates Privacy Statement Media Requests Our Program Courses Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement. A Harvard program for retired professionals. Contribute to a Vibrant Intellectual Community At the Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement (HILR), program participants design and lead our courses. Peer-to-peer teaching and learning anchors our community, with stimulating speaker events and extracurricular activities providing opportunities to engage beyond the classroom. 550 Community Members 120+ Courses Annually Semesters Fall & Spring Learn More About Us This endeavor turned out to be more vast and far more rewarding than I ever expected. One of the best experiences of my life. Rejuvenating!” Linda Sultan Meet Some of Our Members Our Program HILR is a Cambridge-based program serving individuals committed to ongoing, intensive liberal arts study. Courses Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College