Jump to navigation Campus Services *For more information, please visit the Campus Services website Services Buildings & Facilities CommuterChoice Dining Energy & Utilities Housing ID Cards Mail Parking Printing Real Estate Sustainability Transit & Fleet Tools Travel Departments Dining Energy & Facilities Events Management Global Support Services Harvard Faculty Club Harvard International Office Harvard Real Estate Harvard University Housing Office for Sustainability Transportation The Harvard International Office (HIO) remains closed for walk-in advising. Please review the Contact Us page for information on contacting your HIO advisor, daily drop-in Zoom advising hours, and walk-in travel signature and document pick up hours. Harvard International Office About Us Statistics Profiles Contact Us Getting Started Student Visa Process Student Visa Options Applying for your Visa Transfer to Harvard and Change of Level Arriving in the U.S., HIO Registration, & Orientations New Student Welcome Guide Scholar Visa Process Scholar Visa Types Applying for your Visa J-1 Transfer to Harvard Arriving in the U.S., HIO Registration, & Orientations New Scholar Welcome Guide Student Intern Visa Process J-1 Student Intern Visa Applying for your Visa Arriving in the U.S., HIO Registration, & Orientations New Student Intern Welcome Guide Dependents and Family Members Dependent Visas Employment of J-2 Dependents Inviting Friends and Family Members to the U.S. Resources for Dependents Forms For All Change of Address Form HIO Dependent Data Sheet HIO Registration Form Visa Document Request Form For Students F-1 OPT Application Forms F-1 OPT Cap Gap Request Form F-1 Post-completion OPT Reporting Form F-1 STEM OPT Application Forms F-1 STEM OPT Reporting Form Host Program for International Students J-1 Academic Training Application Form J-1 Academic Training Evaluation Form J-1 On-Campus Employment Reporting Form Transfer-In Form For Students For Scholars & Student Interns J-1 Scholar Occasional Lecture Authorization Form J-1 Student Intern Certification of Enrollment and Expected Degree Completion J-1 Student Intern Evaluation Form Transfer-In Form For Scholars For Administrators HIO e-Form HIO Notice of Extension or Departure (eNED) ISD Manual J-1 Certification of English Language Proficiency J-1 Student Intern Checklist J-1 Student Intern Intake Form Travel Travel Within the U.S. Travel Outside the U.S. Travel on Post-Completion OPT, STEM OPT, or AT Renewing a Visa Issues While Traveling & Emergencies eShipGlobal Instructions Maintaining Visa Status For Students Your Immigration Responsibilities F-1 and J-1 On-Campus Employment F-1 CPT F-1 Employment with an International Organization F-1 OPT F-1 STEM OPT J-1 Academic Training Extensions Leave of Absence Leaving Harvard and Transferring Out For Scholars Your Immigration Responsibilities (J-1 Scholars) Your Immigration Responsibilities (all other visas) J-1 Scholar Occasional Lectures & Consultations Extensions Leaving Harvard and Transferring Out For Student Interns Your Immigration Responsibilities Extensions Ending Your Internship Harvard Resources Welcome Guide Bank Accounts & Credit Cards Cell Phones Harvard ID Health Care & Insurance HIO Orientations Host Program Housing J Exchange Visitor Guide Safety, Scams, & Identity Protection Spouses, Partners, & Children State Issued ID Taxes & Social Security Tax Filing Overview FAQ for Tax Filing Additional Tax Resources Social Security Number (SSN) Individual Tax Payer Identification Number (ITIN) Campus Resources Academic Life Athletic Facilities Counseling Services Harvard's International Community Libraries and Museums On-Campus Dining Religious Services Transportation HU Administrators About Visa Sponsorship at Harvard Department Responsibilities Types of Scholar Visas Using ISD Hiring International Students Extending Visa Status 212e and 12/24 Month Bars for J Visa Holders FAQ for Administrators Notice of Filing of Labor Condition Applications Search Placeholder Keyword Serving Harvard's International Community You are here Home Getting Started Scholar Visa Process Scholar Visa Types B Visa & ESTA The B-1 visa is for a visitor coming temporarily to the United States generally for short term business. The B-2 visa is generally for pleasure or medical treatment. Visitors may use the B-1 visa for brief stays to participate in scientific, educational, professional or business conventions, conferences, or seminars. The B visa is not appropriate for students or long-term scholars coming to Harvard University for an academic appointment, nor to scholars who are coming to collaborate with Harvard faculty members or primary investigators. Visa Waiver Program Citizens of a limited number of countries are permitted to visit the United States for up to 90 days without a B-1/B-2 visa under the Visa Waiver Program. Visitors entering for business purposes are admitted in WB status and visitors entering for pleasure are admitted in WT status. The B-1/B-2 and WB/WT categories are very similar but they do have some important differences. Visitors admitted in WB/WT status cannot extend their permission to remain in the United States beyond 90 days and they cannot apply for a change of status. They must fulfill certain passport requirements and pre-screening requirements. Individuals visiting the United States under the Visa Waiver Program will need pre-clearance authorization called ESTA prior to traveling. They must present evidence of ESTA approval at the port of entry to the United States. Please be sure to print out the approval when applying for ESTA. Please note that denial of a recent U.S. entry visa application could result in (an inability) failure to meet the prescreening requirements, additional questioning at the U.S. port of entry, or denial of admission to the U.S.Visitors in the U.S. with a WB/WT status who travel directly to Canada, Mexico, or the adjacent Caribbean islands for a short trip may be readmitted to the U.S. for the balance of their original admission period. Except for extensions, the information on the HIO web pages regarding the B visa also pertains to the Visa Waiver Program. The key difference is that visitors are exempt of having to get a visa in their passports. Recently, there are changes to the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) that establish new eligibility requirements for travel under the VWP. These new eligibility requirements do not bar travel to the U.S. Instead, a traveler who does not meet the requirements must obtain a visa for travel to the U.S., which generally includes an in-person interview at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate. At the beginning of the year 2018, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) launched two new traveler compliance initiatives to make it easier for Visa Waiver Program (VWP) travelers to check the status of their stay in the U.S. and remain in compliance with the terms of their admission. Click here for detailed informaion. Travelers in the following categories are no longer eligible to travel or be admitted to the United States under the VWP: Nationals of VWP countries who have been present in Iraq, Syria, or countries listed under specified designation lists (currently including Iran and Sudan) at any time on or after March 1, 2011 (with limited government/military exceptions). As of February 18, Libya, Somalia and Yemen have been added to this list. Nationals of VWP countries who are also nationals of Iraq, Syria, Iran, or Sudan. For more information, please review U.S. Customs and Border Protection website . Employment Employment is not permitted on the B visa. However, a B-1 visitor may be given reimbursement for travel and living expenses. A B-1 visitor may be paid an honorarium for "usual academic activities" as long as the academic activity does not last longer than nine days at any institution and the visitor may not have accepted similar payments from more than five institutions during the previous six months. Any teaching activities must be discussed with an HIO advisor in advance. Obtaining a B Visa Individuals should contact the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in their countries for instructions on the visa application process and processing times. There is no visa document specific to the B visa, but applicants must clearly explain the purpose of the visit to the United States to the Customs and Border Protection Officer. For instance, a letter of invitation from the department describing the duration and purpose of the visit may be helpful. If a Harvard (or affiliate) department is inviting the B visitor on official business, the letter of invitation should cover the following points: the nature of the visit is temporary the individual will not be a salaried employee the individual has their own funding (name source) the individual's position/occupation in their home country the individual will have a return passage each period of stay at Harvard will not exceed 90 days (for Visa Waiver Program only) the visit is of non-collaborative nature whether an honorarium will be provided Taxes Employers are required to withhold 30% of the honorarium payment for tax purposes. B visitors are not eligible to obtain a Social Security Number or an Individual Tax Identification Number (ITIN). Extensions In some cases it is possible to extend the B visa beyond the date listed on the I-94. The reason for the extension must remain with in the original temporary objective (see Obtaining a B Visa.) The extension is requested by mail to the USCIS using Form I-539, supporting documents and fee. Harvard affiliates may schedule an appointment with their advisor to discuss eligibility for a B visa extension and how to prepare the application. Inviting Friends and Family to Visit the US For family, relatives, and friends to visit you in the U.S., including coming to Commencement, they will most likely need to apply for a tourist visa (B1/B2 visa). There are no specific visa documents, e.g. Form I-20 or DS-2019, with which to apply for a B1/B2 visa. However, there are some guidelines on what a consular official expects of applicants. Applicants should be prepared to explain the following points: The visit to the United States will be temporary. There are adequate funds to cover the cost of transportation and cost of living in the United States. The visitors have residences outside the United States to which they intend to return. Suggested Documents For the first item listed above, both an invitation letter from you and a certificate of attendance letter from your school may be necessary. A certificate of attendance letter is usually provided by the registrar's office at your school. Some schools provide letters of invitation to Commencement. Please inquire with your school. For the second item, your family or friends may provide evidence of sufficient funds to support themselves while in the United States in the form of a bank statement. Alternatively, you may provide your current bank statement as evidence of adequate financial support to cover their temporary stay in the United States. For the last item, proving the intent to return home can be documented by evidence of a job, family, property or other strong ties to their home country. The applicants should be prepared to answer questions about their intent. Please refer to the guidance from the U.S. Department of State on what constitutes as strong ties. Two Step Process for Family and Friends Applying for a visa For many individuals a B1/B2 visa from a U.S. embassy or consulate outside the United States is needed to enter the United States. Guidance on visa application is available on the web site of the U.S. Department of State. Please note that Canadian citizens and citizens of Visa Waiver countries do not need to obtain visas for this purpose. Please note that visitors traveling under the Visa Waiver Program will need pre-clearance authorization called ESTA prior to traveling. They must present evidence of ESTA approval at the port of entry to the United States. Please be sure to print out the approval when applying for ESTA. Entering the United States The length of stay that the U.S. government official grants to the visitor is discretionary, normally no longer than 6 months. B visa holders are advised to print out their I-94 . The I-94 indicates how long a B visa holder may remain in the United States. Extensions may be requested with USCIS at a later date. What can Harvard do for me to get a B1/B2 visa for my family member? Since the purpose of a tourist visa does not directly involve Harvard's visa sponsorship, the statements you need should not come from the HIO. Please inquire with your school for a certificate of attendance letter. If your school is willing to write a letter of invitation to on your behalf to invite your family or friends for Commencement here is a sample letter that can be used. Scholar Visa Types J Scholar Visa H-1B Visa O-1 Visa TN Visa E-3 Visa B Visa & ESTA Permanent Residence Applying for your Visa J-1 Transfer to Harvard Arriving in the U.S., HIO Registration, & Orientations New Scholar Welcome Guide Share This Find Us 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Room 864 Cambridge, MA 02138 Map IT P: (617) 495-2789 F: (617) 495-4088 Mon, Wed, Thurs, Fri 9:00a.m. - 3:00p.m. Tues 11:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Navigate Getting Started Forms Travel Maintaining Visa Status Harvard Resources HU Administrators Search Keyword Dining Residential Dining Retail Dining Crimson Catering Transportation Shuttle Information Evening Van Service Charters Housing Living in HUH Graduate Commons Leasing/Property Management RELATED SERVICES | HARVARD.EDU | PRIVACY POLICY