Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Gain Experience Internship FAQs AAA Internship FAQs Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills An internship is a form of experiential learning that integrates knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skills development in a professional setting. Internships give students the opportunity to gain valuable applied experience and make connections in professional fields they are considering for career paths, and give employers the opportunity to guide and evaluate talent. Source: National Association of Colleges & Employers (NACE) For more information about internships, please review the questions & answers below. Open All Tabs What is a virtual internship? An internship is a form of experiential learning that integrates knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skills development in a professional setting. Internships give students the opportunity to gain valuable applied experience and make connections in professional fields they are considering for career paths, and give employers the opportunity to guide and evaluate talent. A virtual internship can provide students with a safe learning experience and environment. What is a micro internship? Micro-Internships are short-term, paid, professional assignments that are similar to those given to new hires or interns. These projects enable college students, graduate students, and recent college graduates to demonstrate skills, explore career paths, and build their networks as they seek the right full-time role. Unlike traditional internships, Micro-Internships can take place year-round, typically 4 range from 5 to 40 hours of work, and projects are due between one week and one month after kick-off. Micro-Internships are used by companies ranging from those in the Fortune 100 to emerging start-ups and go across departments including sales, marketing, technology, HR, and finance. (https://www.parkerdewey.com/faq). What are the benefits of a virtual internship? The primary benefit of a virtual internship at this point is that they can provide students with a safe, work-based learning experience that is grounded in an authentic task or project for a firm or organization. Depending on the nature of the project, students can also develop skills – either technical, inter-personal, or intra-personal – by successfully completing one or more professional assignments on behalf of a professional organization. Additionally, an online internship can provide students with experience engaging in online project management and communications, which are common modes of project-and task-performance in many organizations. Last, an online internship includes no travel or housing costs and thus may be a solution for those who cannot afford to relocate to expensive cities for extended periods. Depending on the quality and character of the experience, an online internship may also provide some of the benefits outlined above, including new professional contacts, introduction to professional norms, and so on. But for these benefits to be experienced in an online setting, either third-party organizations, employers, or faculty instructors need to carefully design an experience that is more than a mere short-term project out-sourced to college students. How can I effectively build relationships and immerse myself into the company's space through a virtual setting? Suggest regular 1:1 check-in with supervisor/s Make an extra effort to check in with other colleagues Offer your assistance and expertise when appropriate Speak up and be heard Express your creativity skills Participate in virtual social events How do I go about clocking in and out of my virtual internship? Your internship supervisor should discuss the proper way to check-in and clock in/out while you are working virtually. If there is a particular platform that you will be signing in, please make sure that they have walked you through these necessary steps. If your internship is not paid, it is still important to discuss your weekly hours and how you will be keeping track of your hours. My virtual internship is offering me to receive credit, how do I go about this process? To obtain credit for your internship you would need to enroll in the Toppel Internship Program. To be enrolled in the program you will have to fill out a learning contract which can be found on Toppel's main website https://hireacane.miami.edu/gain-experience/tip/index.html My virtual internship was canceled, and I am enrolled in the Toppel Internship Program. What should I do? If your internship has been rescinded for any reason please email toppel-internships@miami.edu to notify us of the status of your internship. What type of work will I be doing at a virtual internship? Your tasks will be dependent on the company and industry of the internship. The tasks may be different than the tasks of an in-person experience. However, these tasks will still help you gain key skills necessary in the field and the new workplace. Do I need to use my own equipment, technology, and/or resources to complete a virtual internship? Once you have received an offer letter from your internship site, your internship supervisor should go over the supplies/ materials you will need to complete various projects and tasks. If you do not have the supplies/materials to complete the tasks, please inform your internship supervisor so they can make the necessary accommodations for you. What other resources can I utilize if I have yet to secure an internship? Parker Dewey http://info.parkerdewey.com/mia Cane2Cane https://cane2cane.miami.edu/ Forage https://www.theforage.com/landing/miami/nvsGZmoqy5EctSDmj/careers Interstride https://web.interstride.com/ University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices