Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search About Us Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Faculty About Us Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home About Us AAA About the Toppel Career Center Faculty About Us Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space Toppel student staff and Sebastian celebrate the start of the year at Toppelfest. Our mission is to prepare students to make educated decisions as they explore the ever-changing landscape of careers. We achieve this through innovation and strategic connections with the University community and beyond. Are you trying to figure out what to do with your life? Are you pretty sure--even totally sure--you know your career goals, but need some help developing a plan or making connections? At Toppel, we’re in the business of career education, which means that we can help! We have a staff of highly trained career advisors who can support you every step along your path to career success. Whether you’re looking to solidify your interests or skills, get ready for a job or internship interview, or make connections that will launch your career, Toppel has you covered. Mission: We prepare students to make educated decisions as they explore the ever-changing landscape of careers. We achieve this through innovation and strategic connections with the University community and beyond. Vision: Empowering and connecting 'Canes to achieve a lifetime of career fulfillment. Hours The Toppel Career Center is open Monday through Friday, 8:30am - 5:00pm. Drop-in advising for resumes, cover letters, and mini-practice interviews is offered Monday through Friday, 9:00am-5:00pm. No appointment is necessary for drop-in advising. Please note that we are closed on holidays, during some breaks, and occasionally for staff development and training. During the summer, we are also closed on Fridays. Our Model We know that everyone is at a different place when they come to us. Our model--Explore, Prepare, Connect--gives us the flexibility to meet you where you are. Explore Exploring is all about discovering career pathways. Take one of our many career assessments to uncover your strengths, interests, skills and abilities. Apply for UShadow to spend a day with an employer in your industry of interest and learn what it’s like day to day. See a career advisor to build a career plan that’s tailored just for you. Whatever your needs, we’re here to guide you as you explore the many possibilities and begin to narrow down the options for your future. Prepare Preparing is all about getting ready for the world of work. We talk with employers in a wide variety of industries on a daily basis and know what they’re looking for in job candidates and future employees. Better yet, we engage them in preparing you for the work you’ll do when you graduate (or even before!). Schedule a practice interview with an advisor--or with an employer at EPIC. Attend a program or workshop to develop critical career-related skills. Come get your resume, cover letter, and other job application materials reviewed by a peer advisor during drop-in advising hours. Connect Connecting is all about meeting people and getting involved in organizations that will grow into your own professional network. Connect with employers looking to hire you through on-campus interviews or our online career management system, Handshake. Get guidance on building meaningful relationships and skills at your internship through the Toppel Internship Program. Participate in one of our many networking and recruiting events throughout the year for just about any industry that might interest you. Guiding Framework Our career education model is guided by a theoretical framework that is designed to provide you with the flexibility you’ll need to be successful in our changing world. The Chaos Theory of Careers (CTC) by Pryor and Bright assumes that there are many influences in our lives that make it difficult to predict where our lives will lead. Nothing is certain and everything is possible. In order to prepare you for inevitable change and uncertainty, we work with you to understand your limitations, identify opportunities, recover from obstacles, find meaningful work, take advantage of chance, and develop the necessary skills to handle a life that fluctuates between stability and change. Career Alliance The UM Career Alliance brings together departments and individuals who can offer perspective and insight on the career education and development of our students. A key goal of the Alliance is to help the Toppel Career Center anticipate and respond to the ever-changing contexts and conditions of our students' career planning and options. The group meets twice a semester and is comprised of students, faculty, employers, and university administrators. For more information, please contact Ali Rodriguez at alrodriguez@miami.edu. Who Are the Toppels? Dedicated on February 7, 2014, the Toppel Career Center stands as a testament to the visionary leadership and unconditional generosity of University of Miami Trustee and two-time alumna Patricia Toppel. With her beloved husband Harold, Pat Toppel made the gift that brought the original Toppel Center into being in 1995, and it is she whose financial support helped make construction of this state-of-the-art facility possible. "We all have the same goal here at the University—to provide an excellent education, a wonderful campus life, and the opportunity to plan for our students' futures." - Pat Toppel, B.Ed. '58, M.Ed. '59 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices