Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Exploring Majors & Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Exploring Majors & Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Explore Career Options Career Advising AAA Career Advising Exploring Majors & Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Do you have questions about internships, graduate school, or your future career? Or are you unsure what your first step should be? Speak with an advisor in-person or online via Zoom, Monday - Friday from 8:30 am - 5:00 pm. Meet with one of our highly trained advisors in-person or virtually for support and guidance individually or in a small group during our drop-in advising hours, Monday - Friday from 8:30 am - 5:00 pm. Our advisors help students further develop their career knowledge, self-awareness, and confidence to make the most informed career decisions possible. Here are some themes that can be discussed with an advisor: Explore skills and interests, using the Strong Interest Inventory and Career Explorer by Sokanu Career Assessments Identify values and goals and how they relate to career paths Learn what you can do with your major Get assistance with the graduate school application process Locate resources within your industry or area of interest Learn how to network in your field Discuss how to search for jobs and internships Advising Toppel has an advising approach that gets you the advice you need on the spot. No appointment necessary! Students can receive advising in-person or virtually any time throughout the day for as long as they need (Monday-Friday, between 8:30am – 5:00pm). Have a question about internships but only have 10 minutes to pop-in before class? No problem. Need to stay all afternoon to craft your resume from scratch? Done. Enter our virtual waiting room If you’re familiar with Toppel, you may have experienced career advising here before, but with this new advising approach, you’ll experience reduced wait times to see an advisor, hands-on help for as long as you need it, and extended conversations about how to navigate your career options and identify your professional brand. Drop-ins are more than just resume critiques or quick questions now. You’ll be able to receive all of the information and support you need, at your convenience. This will be achieved in tandem with an advisor within a supportive co-exploratory learning environment. So, instead of making an appointment, you just pop in [during business hours] whenever you need help. Come see how this way of meeting with advisors works for yourself! Evening appointments can be made for students who work full-time or have other time restrictions. Please email the Toppel Career Center for assistance at toppel@miami.edu. Practice Interviews Were you invited to interview for your dream internship/job? Are you asking yourself the question, “Now what?” Stop by Toppel to meet with one of our advisors and go over tips to prepare for your interview! We can also do a practice interview with you where we simulate an interview setting and go through questions and provide feedback during an hour session. The session is broken down into two parts. First, we will go through a 25-30 minute interview with tailored questions followed by a 20-30 minute coaching session that will provide you an opportunity to learn what you excelled in and areas that you need to continue working on to develop your interviewing skills. Don’t wait! Meet with our advisors and gain the experience and confidence needed to shine at your next interview. Schedule a practice interview with one of our staff by stopping by our front desk or visiting us now through Zoom. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices