Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Toppel Insider Newsletter About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Career Resources Resume and Cover Letter Help AAA Resume and Cover Letter Help Sebastian is taking advantage of our phenomenal drop-in advising staff to have his resume critiqued! There are multiple ways that Toppel can assist you with drafting an effective resume or cover letter. Choose the option or options that are best for you! Resume Your resume is a snapshot of your professional persona, so it’s important that this document speaks to the skills and talents you possess. There is no “perfect” or “correct” format - it all depends on the position you are looking for and your past experiences. Think of your resume as a living document; update it frequently! Resume and Cover Letter Guide: This guide provides you with recommendations for required and optional components of your resume. Advising: We also offer virtual drop-in assistance with no appointment necessary, Monday-Friday from 8:30am-5pm. Resume Samples: Below, we offer samples of multiple types of resumes to be used as a guide. Additionally, Live Career provides a variety of industry-specific resume samples to review. Advertising Engineering Nursing Architecture First-Year Student Psychology Business Marine Science Science - Pre-Health Communication Marketing Studio Art Education Music Visual Journalism/Photography Uploading your resume to Handshake: You’ll need to upload your resume to Handshake in order to participate in On-Campus Recruiting events or apply for jobs and internships that are posted in the system. To upload your resume, log in to Handshake using your CaneID and Password. Once in the system: Click on “View Your Profile” in the column on the left-hand side Click on “Documents” and then “New Document” in the top right corner If this is your first time uploading a resume to Handshake, it will be critiqued by a Toppel staff member within 3-5 business days. Staff will provide you with individualized comments and the document will be approved. We strongly suggest that you make the recommended changes and re-upload your resume as soon as possible. Otherwise, recruiters will not see the best possible version of your resume! Cover Letters Cover letters accompany your resume and introduce you to potential employers. A good cover letter makes a hiring manager want to learn more about you, continue onto your resume, and possibly invite you for an interview. You always want to tailor your cover letter toward a specific position or organization. We suggest that you always draft a new letter for each experience to avoid making mistakes or referencing the wrong position or organization. Cover letters can also be uploaded to Handshake (as can other documents, such as transcripts and work samples) using the same method you used to upload your resume. Documents other than resumes will not be critiqued in the system and will simply be approved for use. Make sure you utilize Toppel career advising to ensure you are providing employers with the best possible cover letter. You can also get help with your writing by utilizing the Writing Center. Toppel offers additional resources that are always accessible to you: Resume and Cover Letter Guide: This guide provides you with recommendations for your cover letter as well as a sample. Live Career also provides a variety of industry-specific cover letter samples to review. Utilize this sample or this other sample to begin writing your own cover letter. Curriculum Vitae A curriculum vitae (CV) is a detailed document used to showcase your professional and academic history. This document helps highlight your scholarly identity within fields like academia and medicine. CVs often include information like professional work experience, achievements and awards, presentations, research, publications, and fellowships you've received. This document serves as an overview of one's entire career. CV Template: Utilize this sample to begin drafting your own personalized document. Portfolios A portfolio is a representation of who you are as a professional. It is a collection of items that showcases your accomplishments and presents who you are as a candidate. Portfolios provide evidence for your skills and qualifications. They can include resumes, professional licenses, certifications and awards, letters of recommendation, evidence of skills, work samples, links to relevant articles, and more. Each field will vary on what is recommended to include in one’s portfolio. When should you use a portfolio? Anytime that you want to visualize your qualifications and abilities. Portfolios may be used to market yourself during a job interview, apply for scholarships, document professional development, secure a promotion, and many other purposes. Depending on your field of interest, either a physical or online portfolio may be best. Here are a few options for free online portfolios: Wix Strikingly Creatively Additional Options University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices