Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills RELATED LINKS How to Get an Internship The Best Times to Apply for an Internship About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Gain Experience Toppel Internship Program AAA Toppel Internship Program Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills RELATED LINKS How to Get an Internship The Best Times to Apply for an Internship Rachel had a great summer internship with National Geographic. She worked in Children's Publishing during her internship. Erica interned at Clear Channel Radio for a summer and had the chance to meet the band 98°. She worked in the Digital Video Department Andrea was an intern at Newlink and worked as a Human Resources Intern. She had the opportunity to visit Univision during her internship. The Toppel Internship Program (TIP) provides a FREE way for you to gain academic credit for your internship experience. The 1-credit notation counts toward overall credits; however, it does not count toward graduation credits or GPA points. NOTE: To obtain credit toward graduation credits, you should seek out your Academic Advisor/Dean to discuss. Not every major/college at UM has this option. Students may not enroll in TIP if receiving credit through another UM internship course. Registering for TIP Students must have an internship offer in order to register their experience and participate in TIP. To register your experience, you must complete the learning contract prior to the start date of your internship. If your internship will be over the course of multiple semesters, you must submit a new learning contract for each semester. Some of the information you will be asked to provide will include: Company Name Internship Title Supervisor’s Contact Information (Name, Title and Email) Start & End date of the internship Number of hours per week you’ll be working Copy of the Internship Position Description (PDF preferred) Requesting a Credit Verification Letter Some internship applications require proof that academic credit can be earned when applying. In order to request the letter verifying you are eligible for credit, please complete this form. Please allow 3-5 business days to receive the letter Once you receive an offer, you should plan to enroll in TIP and participate in the orientation session. Funding Resources Learn more about funding opportunities through the Toppel Internship Fund Curricular Practical Training (CPT) International students in need of Curricular Practical Training (CPT) authorization must participate in TIP because proof of enrollment in at least one internship credit is required by law. To be eligible for CPT, you must: Be in lawful F-1 status at the time you submit your application and maintain valid F-1 status throughout the internship period Have been enrolled in valid, lawful status as a full-time student for at least one full academic year **Refer to the ISSS website for more information as to the application and authorization procedures.** Please allow up to 10 business days for the process to be completed. It is extremely important that you plan ahead. Do not wait until the last minute because you CANNOT begin working without completing each step and receiving authorization from ISSS. Types of Internships You can participate in TIP whether your internship is paid or unpaid. If it is unpaid, we strongly recommend you participate so that you walk away from the experience with tangible compensation in the form of academic credit. Generally you will engage in either a part-time internship or a full-time internship. Part-time: working no more than 20 hours per week, totaling approximately 160 working hours, most common during the academic year (Fall/Spring semesters) Full-time: working between 21-40 hours per week, totaling approximately 320 working hours, only during Summer NOTE: International students under CPT cannot work more than 20 hours per week during the Fall/Spring and cannot work more than 40 hours per week during the Summer. Length of Internship Internships are generally offered for one semester. You may find that your employer wishes to hire you for an academic year or multiple consecutive semesters. As long as you are open to this, Toppel will support your internship experience through TIP. The academic calendar can be used as a guideline if you are in need of specific dates for your internship. We do recommend that you consider your academic obligations and build your schedule to accommodate for busier times (e.g., projects, papers, finals). While Toppel does not have a specific requirement for the length of your internship, we do want to ensure that you are getting a meaningful experience. If you have specific questions or concerns about the length of your internship, please contact us at toppel-internships@miami.edu or 305-284-5451. NOTE: International students under CPT are only authorized to work during specific dates which are based on the academic calendar. Internship Agreements Some internships require a signed internship agreement between the organization and the internship site. Certain countries abroad also require these agreements. The University of Miami is committed to supporting our students in their internship endeavors. As such, we have developed an internship agreement sample that we are able to provide to students in need of an agreement. Students must also participate in the Toppel Internship Program. This process will take at minimum 3-5 business days. If you have specific questions, please contact us at toppel-internships@miami.edu or 305-284-5451. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices