Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs & Internships HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Directions & Accommodations About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs & Internships HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Directions & Accommodations About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Recruit at the U Career Fairs & Meet-Ups AAA Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs & Internships HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Directions & Accommodations The University of Miami hosts a variety of careers fairs for you to connect with the U's diverse and talented candidates. Fairs are hosted in person, via Handshake virtual fairs, and on Zoom. Employers: Handshake's Guide to Attending a Virtual Fair Watch a webinar hosted by Handshake that will help you set up your employer page and interact with students. Learn how to set your schedule. Read tips for Recruiting Virtually. Job & Internship Expo Our largest fair connects you with students searching for interns and full-time employees in various industries. Date: September 7, 2022 Registration opens June 13th Accounting Career Fair Meet students interested in internship and full-time roles in Accounting. Date: September 23, 2022 Registration opens June 13th Grad School Fair Connect with students interested in a variety of graduate and professional programs. Date: Fall 2022 Healthcare Fair Meet and network with students in a variety of Healthcare fields. Date: Fall 2022 Communication, Media & Entertainment Fair Meet and network with students in Public Relations, Advertising, Graphic Design, Multimedia, and more. Date: Spring 2023 SEC & ACC Virtual Career Fair Hundreds of students participate in virtual career fairs, so take advantage of the opportunity to connect with students. Date: Spring 2023 Last Call Career Fair Are you still actively hiring candidates for internships and full-time positions? Register to engage with students before the end of the semester! Date: TBD Architecture Career Fair Meet Bachelor's and Master's candidates from the UM School of Architecture. Date: Spring 2023 Student-Athlete Career Fair This fair connects you with UM student-athletes from all majors. Date: Spring 2023 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices