Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Exploring Majors & Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Pre-Law Applying to Graduate School Gap Year Options About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Exploring Majors & Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Pre-Law Applying to Graduate School Gap Year Options RELATED LINKS Grad School Scholarships How to Pay for Graduate School About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Explore Career Options Choosing a Graduate Program AAA Choosing a Graduate Program Exploring Majors & Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Pre-Law Applying to Graduate School Gap Year Options RELATED LINKS Grad School Scholarships How to Pay for Graduate School Most graduate programs are pretty specialized, so it’s important to focus your attention on just a few schools, rather than applying to everything under the sun. Not to mention that the costs can add up, just think back to when you were applying for undergrad. When choosing a graduate program, you should: Create a targeted list of schools you wish to apply to and that you believe you will be admitted to. While it is great to have a dream-school that might be a long shot, you should also pick some “safety” schools which you are fairly certain you’ll get into. Consider program faculty since the academic experience is the most important piece and will impact your ultimate goals. Quality of faculty and the number of whom do research in your area of interest might be the deciding factor. Do research! Talk to faculty AND students of that program. You should be able to get in contact with current students (or past ones) via the program director. Conduct an informational interview about why they chose that program, would they choose it again, and why. They are the experts. Make sure the campus meets your needs. Is their focus on their undergraduate or graduate population? Is that what you are looking for? Do they have enough labs, libraries, assistantships, fellowships? Pre-Professional Education Are you considering working in healthcare or law? Many careers in these fields require a graduate or professional degree, and there are many majors and minors that can prepare you for these degrees. Most, however, require prerequisite courses, so make sure you talk to an advisor who can help you plan your classes to best suit your interests. Pre-Health If you’re interested in a career in healthcare, dentistry, veterinary medicine, or pharmacy, meet with one of our highly trained advisors. The University offers additional resources through the Office of Pre-Health Advising and Mentoring, including a list of Pre-Health Guidelines and a variety of informational programs. If you are interested in Nursing, Occupational Therapy, Physical Therapy or Public Health, you should also meet with an adviser in the School of Nursing and Health Studies. Pre-Law Are you thinking about a career in law? Start by coming checking out this Pre-Law Handbook, which contains information about what you can study as an undergraduate in addition to information about the LSAT and law school admission process. For more information, click here. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices