Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs & Internships HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Directions & Accommodations About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Recruit at the U HireACane Academy AAA HireACane Academy Student Panel at HireACane Academy Audience engaged at HireACane Academy Fireside chat at HireACane Academy HireACane Academy (HACA) is Toppel’s recruiter conference and retreat where recruiters come together to discuss critical topics and recruiting trends. Employers and UM representatives create interactive presentations, and faculty and students share their expertise and insight into the recruiting process. Past topics include diversity, equity, and inclusion in recruiting, branding your organization on campus, faculty engagement, and more. HireACane Academy: Bold Moves May 5-6, 2022 If the last two years have taught us anything, it’s that Bold Moves are necessary! HireACane Academy (HACA) is the University of Miami's annual recruiter conference and retreat, hosted by the Toppel Career Center. Attendees will have the opportunity to hear from UM faculty, staff and student leaders to understand the full scope of on-campus and hybrid recruitment. Participate in an Employer Showcase with our student leaders, and gain one-of-a-kind insight and valuable tips on building your recruitment strategy. This setting will provide a unique outlook on the future of hiring and innovative ways to recruit at the U! Join us on the beautiful University of Miami campus for a day and a half of engaging and bold sessions! May 5, 2022 Welcome & Introductions: 10:00 -10:30 am Ali Rodriguez, Executive Director Fireside Chat: Making Campus Connections: 10:30 am-12:00 pm Light a flame and get your burning questions on the student experience answered, from admission to matriculation and graduation. Moderator: Christian Garcia, Associate Dean & Executive Director, Toppel Career Center Panelists: Maria Stampino, Dean of Undergraduate Affairs Kennedy Robinson, Assistant Director, Programs, Multicultural Student Affairs Nate Crozier, Assistant Vice President, Undergraduate Admissions and Marketing Toppel Jeopardy - Recruiter Edition: 12:00-12:30 pm Test your skills and knowledge on recruiting at the U hosted by our very own Toppel staff! Lunch: 12:30 -1:15 pm Bold, Bolder, Boldest - A NACE Perspective: 1:15-2:15 pm David Ong, Vice President, Talent Acquisition, at MAXIMUS and President of NACE will share data from the National Association of Colleges & Employers (NACE) on hybrid recruiting, equity issues, and the future of hiring. Day 2 Employer Showcase Preparation: 2:15-2:30 pm Learn more about our Employer Showcase and get ready for Day 2. Faculty Panel & Breakout Sessions: 2:30 - 3:55 pm Engage with UM faculty and discuss techniques to adapt your recruitment strategy. Reception: 4:00-5:00 pm Wind down and network with UM faculty and staff! May 6, 2022 Welcome & Opening Activity: 9:00 - 9:15 am Guided Campus Tour: 9:15 am-10:15 am Enjoy a guided campus tour and explore our campus. Employer Showcase with Student Leaders: 10:15 am-11:55 am Engage in a roundtable with student leaders followed by an opportunity to showcase the bold moves your organization is making in recruiting. You will also get concrete feedback to enrich your approach to recruiting at the U! Closing: 12:00 pm Pricing: 2 Day Corporate: $249 1 Day Corporate $199 2 Day Government/Non-Profit: $199 1 Day Government/Non-Profit: $149 Employer Testimonial “One of the best resources for a campus recruiter is partnering with career services. Toppel goes above and beyond with HireACane Academy. HACA 2020 gave me the opportunity to hear from not only career services, but faculty, students, and other campus recruiters. HACA jumpstarted our recruitment efforts resulting in our ability to hire 17 University of Miami students into our intern and full-time campus programs. We are looking forward to attending again this year to gear-up for another successful season!” Rachel Johnson, Bank of America and Recruiter of the Year (2021 Toppel Awards) University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices