Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Gain Experience InternU: On-Campus Internships AAA InternU: On-Campus Internships InternU provides experiential opportunities to students and is designed to promote deliberate goal setting and identification of learning outcomes. Our objective is to aid departments, offices and centers on campus with developing and/or enhancing quality internship opportunities. At the Toppel Career Center, we know that on-campus employment enhances a student’s college experience and leads to greater student success and retention. In return, students can offer tremendous value to the University by providing their skills and talents. Why should you participate? Employers who recruit at the University of Miami tell us that they want students to participate in 2-3 internships while in college. In addition, they are looking for students who have developed a variety of skills, including communication and problem-solving. Approximately 4,500 students at the University of Miami are working on campus. At the Toppel Career Center, we believe career services is everyone’s business. Therefore, it is our job to make sure these students are walking away from the University with transferable skills for their future. Redefining these on-campus positions as internships would encourage students to make the most of their on-campus experience. This shift in mindset allows students to feel as if they are an integral part of the organization, as students take part in meaningful work and feel part of a greater cause. Being an on-campus intern here at the University of Miami allows students to communicate their growth to future employers. InternU helps your student employees showcase the skills they gain through their professional documents and interview skills. Do you currently: Employ students in part-time opportunities (non-clerical/non-administrative)? Have projects or initiatives that have yet to come to fruition due to competing priorities? Have a passion for working with students? If so, the Toppel Career Center is committed to working with you to: Identify if your current part-time opportunities can be classified as internships with the development of learning outcomes/objectives Assist with the posting of positions and recruiting of students Enroll students in a 1-credit transcript notation internship course that helps them make the most of their experience If you would like more information on InternU, please email Carly Smith (carly@miami.edu) or Keashla Marengo (k.marengo@miami.edu). University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices