Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home About Us Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) AAA Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) The information below outlines our services and how they will be offered in person and/or virtually. Our Services Open All Tabs For Students The Toppel Career Center continues to follow University of Miami guidance to maintain the safety and well-being of our students and staff during the 2021-2022 academic year. We will be operating in a hybrid model to make sure you can access our services in the best way for you. Instructions for accessing advising as well as other services and resources are below. For any questions, please email us at toppel@miami.edu. Drop-In Advising Drop-in advising will take place Monday – Friday, 8:30 am – 5:00 pm either in-person or via Zoom. You do not need to schedule an appointment to take advantage of drop-in advising. Feel free to come see us at 5225 Ponce de Leon Blvd. or go to https://tinyurl.com/toppel at any time during our drop-in hours, and an advisor will be there to assist you. Practice Interviews Students have several options available for practice interviews. You can record practice interviews utilizing Big Interview. To receive feedback on your practice interview, please share the videos with advising.toppel@miami.edu. You can also schedule practice interviews by speaking with our Front Desk Assistant in person or at https://tinyurl.com/toppel during business hours. Resume Critiques Students can continue to submit their resumes on Handshake for an online resume critique. You can also discuss your resume and other documents during the advising options mentioned above. Searching for Jobs & Internships Students can continue to search for jobs and internships on Handshake. Also on Handshake, you can register for both in-person and virtual events to network with employers, read company reviews, message recruiters, and message your peers. Remember to fill out your Handshake profile and keep it up-to-date! If you’re interested in doing a short-term project, check out Cane2Cane or Parker Dewey for listings. Career Assessments Students can continue to take career assessments to help them explore career options. Career Explorer by Sokanu is a career test designed to measure a person’s traits and match them to careers. You can take the test online at any time. Finding a Mentor Students can continue to use Cane2Cane to find alumni mentors. Cane2Cane is an online platform that connects UM students with alumni for opportunities to explore career paths, prepare for the workplace, and establish new connections in their network. You can message alumni and schedule virtual meetings to get advice or ask them about their careers. Events Career events including career fairs, information sessions, and workshops may be in-person or virtual. For the most up-to-date list of events, check out the events tab on Handshake. Any Questions? For any advising-related questions, please email advising.toppel@miami.edu, and we will be in touch with you shortly. For questions about current or upcoming internships contact us at toppel-internships@miami.edu. For any other questions, please contact toppel@miami.edu. For Employers The Toppel Career Center team remains committed to connecting employers and students for internship and full-time roles. Our priority is the safety and well-being of our students and staff. For this reason, the Toppel Career Center will be suspending in-person recruiting events for the fall semester and will host virtual options for talent engagement events and career fairs. Please make these requests through Handshake. For any questions, please contact HireACane@miami.edu and here are some additional tips. Utilize Handshake Reach our entire undergraduate, graduate student, and alumni populations by posting full-time, internship positions in Handshake. To better identify prospective candidates for roles for which you are recruiting, use the student profile search function and engage students directly. Schedule virtual interviews via Handshake. Host Talent Engagement Events Use Zoom, Skype or other platforms to engage directly with students. This is the best way to continue building your brand and Toppel can host these events for you using Zoom. Post Projects on Bridges (PeopleGrove) Share short-term, project-based work experiences with University of Miami students and alumni. Click here for more information. Post Micro-Internships (Parker Dewey) Consider creating micro-projects or shorter-term task-based assignments for students. Learn more here. Handshake has also developed a list of Virtual Recruiting Resources to Engage College Students and Grads During COVID-19. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices