Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Toppel Insider Newsletter About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Toppel Insider Newsletter About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Career Resources Make the Most of Handshake AAA Make the Most of Handshake Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Toppel Insider Newsletter What is Handshake? Handshake is a career services platform created for students and alumni to use in their career development. It also houses resources that can be used at any time and shows a list of all the career events Toppel is hosting. Handshake is used by over 200,000 employers, including all Fortune 500 companies! Thousands of internship and job opporutnities are posted on Handshake by employers specifically looking to hire students. All UM students have a Handshake account that is automatically created for them when they enroll at the U. All you have to do is log in to Handshake to activate your account. Handshake will then recommend certain positions to you based on your profile, allowing for easy searching. Completing and updating your profile will provide Handshake with a better idea of which job and internship listings you may be interested in. Here are some of the awesome things you can do with Handshake: Register for industry meet-ups, career fairs, & info sessions Upload your resume for an online critique Research thousands of employers Apply for jobs & internships Resources on Handshake Handshake has a page where you can find the free resource library available to UM students and alumni. To access it, click on the “Career Center” tab and go to “Resources.” These online resources can help you search for jobs and internships, give you access to online news articles and websites, help you create professional business cards, and more! Check out some of these popular resources. Register for Events Toppel hosts career development events to help you enter or prepare for the workforce, such as Career Expo and EPIC. All attendees must RSVP through Handshake. To find events, log in, select the “Events” tab at the top. This will show every event Toppel has planned in chronological order. If you would like to find an event specific to your major, career path, or you want to see events with a specific employer, use the “Event Search” or "Fairs Search" function below the banner and enter your filters on the right side. Once you find an event you would like to attend, click the title to learn more, and select the green RSVP button to register. Networking on Handshake Conduct Company Research Employers have their own Handshake profiles! On these profiles, organizations will have information about themselves, listings for jobs and internships, and any events they are hosting will appear on this page as well. Any reviews that previous interns and employees have written will also appear on the employer profiles to allow Handshake users to gain a better understanding of what it is like to work for them. Q&A Do you have a question about your job/internship search? Is there anything you want to know about working for an employer that may not be discussed in the reviews on their profile? Handshake offers students the ability to ask other Handshake users any question or answer a question another user has posed. Message Other Students Peer messaging is now available on Handshake! Students and alumni who have their profiles publicly available can send messages to each other, even if they attend another college or university. Benefits of Peer Messaging: Identify students and alumni with a similar background to you Ask a follow up question to a published Review or Q&A Reach out for advice related to professional experience How to Make the Most of Handshake Handshake has numerous tools and capabilities that will help launch you into your next career development opportunity. Below are the top five ways to use it to your advantage: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices