Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs & Internships HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Directions & Accommodations About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs & Internships HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Directions & Accommodations About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Recruit at the U DEIB Recruiting Kit AAA DEIB Recruiting Kit Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs & Internships HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Directions & Accommodations Thank you for your interest in recruiting our outstanding students and alumni at the University of Miami! Many employers tell us that they choose to recruit at the University of Miami because of the diversity of our student body. Unfortunately, recruiting teams that visit campus – in person and virtually – do not always represent diverse backgrounds, and this sends hollow and conflicting messages. We have created our Employer DEIB Kit to provide tools and resources for recruiters and employers, as you develop and elevate your initiatives related to diversity, equity, and inclusion. It is no longer something to consider; it is a moral imperative. The Toppel Career Center team is dedicated to educating students, employers, and each other about diversity, equity, and inclusion in our society, and specifically, in the workplace. We will continue to listen, learn, educate, and challenge ourselves to promote and stand for anti-racism in support of UM students, alumni, and the employers who recruit at the U. We are also committed to providing students opportunities at organizations that value equity, diversity, and inclusion. We expect that recruiters do the following: Create safe spaces during the recruiting process where candidates feel valued for the unique identities they bring to the table Serve as an advocate for candidates by supporting diverse perspectives and ideas Educate yourself and your colleagues and ask questions when you’re unsure Please feel free to reach out to our team with any questions or concerns. We are here to support you every step of the way! Ali Rodriguez Executive Director, Employer Engagement Download Our DEIB Recruiting Kit Getting Started Open All Tabs UM Student Diversity As of 2020, the University of Miami enrolled approximately 18,000 students in 12 colleges and schools. 63.31% of U Miami students come from out of state, and 12.29% come from out of the country. At least 49 countries are represented at the University of Miami. The countries with the largest on-campus communities are China, Kuwait, and Venezuela. To learn more about our students, review “Why Recruit at the U” and the University of Miami Fact Finder. Getting Started Understand Diversity Terminology & Vocabulary. Avarna Equity, Inclusion, & Diversity Vocab Evaluate and Develop a Strong Recruiting Strategy Why is it important? With the changing demographics of our student population and national workforce, it is imperative that employers seeking to hire University of Miami students have the commitment, skills, and workplace environment needed to recruit and retain a diverse talent pool. Why Does it Matter? By 2045, Census Projections predict that the US will have a more racially diverse population where white people will no longer be in the numerical majority Racially and ethnically diverse companies are 35% more likely to outperform their competitors, and those with gender diversity are 15% more likely to outperform their competitors Diverse talent leads to increased creativity, higher innovation, better decision making and more. Highly engaged teams show 21% greater profitability and the cost of turnover ranges from 10-30% of EACH lost employee's annual salary. These are facts that organizations cannot ignore if they want to succeed and excel in their mission and goals While we know diversity efforts can help organizations with profits, retention, and culture, there are still roadblocks organizations face to support a diverse workforce well. This article in Forbes talks about strategies to overcome those challenges and one of the first steps is aligning their organizational diversity practices with their organizational goals. We recognize that each organization is at a different place in their journey and recommend this toolkit as a starting point for employers to begin (or expand) designing and implementing inclusive recruitment and retention practices. Source: Forbes link: “Why Workplace Diversity is so Important and Why it’s so Hard to Achieve” Best Practices Determine Opportunities for Diversifying Your Company’s Staff What are the current and future needs of the office? Who do we serve? What is the current make-up of the department/business unit? How many and what type of positions are expected to be vacant? Are any of these positions in an underutilized job group for under- represented groups? Evaluate Job Descriptions Is the job description aligned with commitment to staff diversity? Does the job description use language that attracts diverse staff? Does the job description include criteria such as "experience working with a diverse population?" Does the job description accurately reflect the skills and education necessary for the position? Are essential and marginal functions of the position clearly stated and consistent with current needs and/or responsibilities of the position? Does the job description include any biased language? Remember to use his or her, he/she, or s/he when you occasionally need to stress the action of an individual. Interviewing Applicants Review the interview pool and ensure that it is inclusive of diverse candidates. If a search committee is used, is it diverse? Review proposed interview questions to ensure there are no illegal questions (e.g., age, disability, children, etc.). Ensure that hiring managers understand the process to implement reasonable accommodations if necessary for the interview. Strongly encouraged to bring recruiters and company representatives who represent our student population. It is important for students to "see themselves" in your organization and have an opportunity to interact with those of shared identities. It is also critical for organizations to display concrete examples of how they recruit, retain, and promote minorities. Avoid Unconscious Bias Unconscious bias (also known as implicit bias) is the preferences and prejudices that we don't realize we have. These biases often come from our background and aren't necessarily apparent in our day-to-day interactions with others. However, they can inform the decisions we make about the people with whom we surround ourselves. Everyone has unconscious biases; many hiring panels might unwittingly lean toward hiring - or not hiring - candidates based on those implicit prejudices. Three common types of unconscious bias include: Affinity bias: This type refers to the tendency to prefer people who are similar to us in terms of race, gender, age, etc. Confirmation bias: This bias occurs when we pay greater attention to information that confirms pre-existing beliefs, thus essentially confirming stereotypes we hold. Conformity bias: This refers to being influenced by the opinions and behaviors of others, such as other colleagues on a hiring panel, in order to conform to "proper" behavior. What are some strategies to prevent and address these biases during the hiring process? You and your team can prevent and address these prejudices through consistent, strategic action. Try these 10 strategies: Identify your unconscious biases. You can use tools like the Implicit Association Test from Harvard to help you. Then, make sure these biases are top of mind throughout the interview and assessment process. We have to keep our prejudices front and center in order to fight them when they arise. Infuse inclusiveness into your communications, both internally and externally. For example, my recruitment company is starting to use a job description analysis tool that identifies gendered language in order to make job descriptions more inclusive. Require diversity training and ongoing education for all employees, particularly managers, recruiters and senior leaders. Make inclusion a regular part of your conversations regarding the brand and company culture. My team has found great success with our new diversity panel, which meets regularly to discuss challenges and set goals around diversity and inclusion. Implement mentorship programs across teams and demographics. Exposing team members to people from different backgrounds can promote greater understanding and empathy across the company culture, which I've found can significantly affect recruitment and retention efforts. Look at candidates' skills and talents before you consider anything else. You might accomplish this by requesting that a sample assignment be completed before the one-on-one interview. Always ask the same interview questions in the same order for every prospective candidate. Consider using a weighted scoring system on these questions, then compare candidates objectively based on their scores. Put a diverse hiring team in place. Make sure a wide range of people are represented, including multiple ages, genders, sexual orientations, cultures, personalities, backgrounds and talents. If you choose to work with a recruitment company, partner with one that specializes in diversity recruitment. As the CEO of a recruitment company, I recommend ensuring they can help match your open positions with a diverse range of talented, qualified candidates as well as provide greater guidance around addressing bias during screening. Commit to fighting explicit bias. This may take the form of new company procedures, training around addressing unacceptable behaviors such as sexual harassment, and a no-tolerance policy for hate speech or discriminatory language. Becoming familiar with our biases might be an uncomfortable process, but it is necessary to create a fairer and more inclusive recruitment process. And when we accomplish that, we start developing workplaces where professionals of all backgrounds can thrive. Source: Forbes, "Inclusive Hiring: How to Address Bias in the Recruiting Process" Recruiting, Hiring, and Retaining Diverse Talent Open All Tabs Resources The following is a list of resources to provide guidance for best practices as organizations recruit, hire, and retain diverse talent. National Association of Colleges and Employers Resources for inclusive recruiting practices on college campuses Ideal: Diversity And Inclusion: A Complete Guide For HR Professionals An overview of DEI, best practices, metrics, and key takeaways Gartner: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resource Center Complimentary resources to help embed greater diversity, equity, and inclusion in your organization SHRM: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources Resources from the Society for Human Resource Management, which creates better workplaces where employers and employees thrive together DiversityInc Best Practices Insight from DiversityInc, a subscription website that offers insights, best practices and case studies on diversity and inclusion management Handshake: Diversity and Inclusion: 7 Essential Early Talent Recruiting Strategies Handshake’s take on evolving with millennials and Gen Z to learn how to adapt your DEI strategy Human Resources Director: 7 strategies to improve diversity and inclusion in the workplace Strategies which focus on getting to the heart of your organization’s processes Rankings Rankings for employers committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion: DiversityInc Top 50 Companies for Diversity Forbes: America’s Best Employers for Diversity Fortune: The 100 Best Workplaces for Diversity Human Rights Campaign: Corporate Quality Index Employer Tools and Resources Open All Tabs Overview The resources below to will help further your organization’s DEI initiatives and foster a more inclusive work environment. These resources are specifically tailored to the needs of employers and can be used to help hire more diverse talent and create a work environment conducive to welcoming new talent that identify with and value a progressive workplace. NACE Resources The National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) has a variety of DEI resources and articles available for employers: The Benefits of Creating an Inclusive Work Culture The three main elements of creating an inclusive work culture. Types of Diversity in the Workplace A guide to 34 unique diversity characteristics Strategic Planning: How to Implement a DE&I Plan for Hiring Learn how to implement a strong DEI plan into your company or see how your current strategy stacks up to recommendations. Language a Key Component of Creating an Inclusive Workplace, Brand Helpful tips to revamp your company’s communication Inclusive Leadership 10 Steps to Creating an Inclusive Workplace Questions Students May Ask to Assess Your Organization’s Commitment to DEI Students are now more in tune than ever with DEI practices. Here are a few of the questions they may ask during their interview process. Inclusive Job Postings Wondering how to make your job postings more inclusive and appealing to diverse candidates? Here are some ideas: Four Useful Tips to Create More Inclusive Job Descriptions Six Must-Know Tips for Writing Inclusive Job Descriptions How to Write an Inclusive Job Description for Gen Z Disabilities in the Workplace Below are some resources for supporting your employees with a disability, and some reasons why you should hire them. Resources for Hard-of-Hearing and Deaf in the Workplace These resources include communication apps, tools, and technology. 3 Reasons to Hire More Individuals with Disabilities in 2021 Here are some Dos and Don’ts of Disability Language Useful guidelines for navigating disability language in a clear, safe and respectful way. Race in the Workplace How To Promote Racial Equity in the Workplace Five steps to effectively address racism in the workplace. On Being Black in Corporate America Salesforce’s Chief Philanthropy Officer Ebony Beckwith tackles necessary and poignant topics. The Growing Hispanic Demographic and the Workplace A Research Report by the Society for Human Resource Management and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute. Asia Society Survey Probes Barriers in the US Workplace Facing Asian Americans A report highlighting barriers to workplace advancement for Asian Americans. Workplace Wellness The One Wellness Benefit Your Employees Want Most This organization, InHerSight, surveyed more than 2,000 workers who identified their most valued employer-provided wellness benefit to be, drumroll please…. Mental Health. 5 Ways Employers Can Support Women’s Mental Health Want to hire and retain more women? This article discusses some way to support women in your company. LinkedIn Talent Solutions Most of us use LinkedIn to engage and connect with colleagues, and it is also a great tool for job seekers and recruiters. LI Talent Solutions has a whole page dedicated to Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging (that’s how important this topic is). Check out their articles and resources here. University of Miami and Toppel Career Center Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Values Open All Tabs University of Miami’s Commitment At the U, our mission is to transform lives through education, research, innovation and service. We are committed to fostering a culture of belonging where everyone at the University feels valued and has the opportunity to add value. Our core values of diversity, integrity, responsibility, excellence, compassion, creativity, and teamwork provide the foundation for all of our behaviors. Diversity is valuing and including people from all cultures and backgrounds in the pursuit of our common goals. Toppel Career Center The Toppel Career Center empowers students in their career search by celebrating unique identities, preparing them for an increasingly diverse and global workforce, and advocating for individual needs. Commitment to Anti-Racism The Toppel Career Center team will remain dedicated to educating students, employers, and each other about diversity, equity, and inclusion in our society, and specifically, in the workplace. We will continue to listen, learn, educate, and challenge ourselves to promote and stand for anti-racism in support of UM students, alumni, and the employers who recruit at the U. Toppel will continue and increase efforts that educate and challenge recruiters on diversity, equity, and inclusion, such as HireACane Academy. Non-Discrimination Policy It is the policy of the University of Miami that no person within the jurisdiction thereof shall, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, disability, veteran status, genetic information or any other protected factor be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination or harassment (including all forms of sexual harassment and sexual violence) under any program or activity of the University, regardless of whether such program or activity occurs on-campus or off-campus. The Toppel Career Center adheres to this policy. As a result, we will provide access to UM students (via Handshake postings, information sessions, programs, and events), and make our facilities available only to recruiting organizations whose practices are consistent with this policy. Toppel Values Wall Toppel’s Diversity and Inclusion Values Wall is prominently displayed among our vast Gapingvoid collection at the Toppel Career Center. The wall serves as a reminder of what we have committed to as a staff, and more importantly, to clearly show how each person who engages with us has a place in our center – both physically and virtually. University of Miami Student Support Services Open All Tabs Campus Partners The Toppel Career Center is proud to collaborate with these campus partners who provide programs and services designed to support students from diverse backgrounds. Empower Me First (Office of Academic Enhancement) The mission of Empower Me First is to assist underrepresented and first generation students in their transition to college life and their pursuit of educational and career goals by providing academic advocacy, general advising, resource referral and academic support. Empower Me First is an active diversity and inclusion initiative in the university President's Access with Excellence Roadmap Initiative. International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) ISSS facilitates enrollment, retention, and graduation for international students and ensures successful experiences for international scholars (faculty and researchers) by providing information, services, acclimation, and culturally relevant activities. LGBTQ Student Center The UM LGBTQ Student Center fosters inclusion and support of University of Miami students, faculty, staff, and alumni inclusive of all genders, orientations, and expressions, and focusses on education and outreach, programming, intergroup engagement, empowerment, and advocacy for increased visibility in the university community. Multicultural Student Affairs (MSA) MSA strives to coordinate services and programs that challenge, motivate, and support ethnically diverse students in their development at the University of Miami. We also seek to bring issues of diversity and multiculturalism to the foreground of campus conversation by sponsoring programs that celebrate cultural differences and highlight similarities that connect us to each other. The Office of Disability Services (ODS) ODS, part of the Camner Center for Academic resources, provides academic accommodations and support to ensure that students with disabilities can access and participate in the opportunities available at the University of Miami. Multicultural Student Organizations There are a variety of multicultural student organizations on campus. The Engage platform allows you connect with student leaders from these organizations, including the following: Asian American Students Association Caribbean Students Organization Council of International Students and Organizations Federation of Cuban Students Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Society of Women Engineers United Black Students University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices