Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Events AAA The Toppel Awards The Toppel Awards recognize outstanding University of Miami students, student organizations, faculty, staff members, and employers who exemplify a commitment to the professional development of themselves and/or others. The Toppel Awards recognize outstanding students, faculty, staff, employers, and recruiters for their commitment to career education and personal career development. The career development of students does not rest solely on the Toppel Career Center. We are fortunate to partner with amazing career champions across and beyond the University of Miami campus. The Toppel Awards were created to honor and recognize the significant achievements of others including students, student groups, administrators, faculty, employers, and recruiters. Nominations occur every fall with the award ceremony occurring every spring. Read on to learn more about the eligibility requirements for each award category and to view the 2021 recipients. Student of the Year (Graduate and Undergraduate) The Student of the Year Award is presented to a graduate and undergraduate student who are nominated by themself/staff/faculty/employer for their personal achievements, contributions to their organization/work site, demonstrated personal and/or professional growth, evidence of leadership, and academic record. In order to be eligible, students must have participated in at least one semester of experiential education: internship, practicum, clinical, field work, research or student teaching in the calendar year. 2022 Graduate Student Recipient: Joshua Darville 2022 Undergraduate Student Recipient: Ana Gabriela Jimenez Alum of the Year The Alum of the Year Award is presented to one alum of the University of Miami who is achieving outstanding professional success in his or her career and/or making significant contributions to enhance current students' career development. In order to be eligible, the nominee must have obtained at least one degree (undergraduate or graduate) from the University of Miami. 2022 Alumni Recipient: Julio Pimentel Student Group of the Year The Student Group of the Year Award is presented to one student group for their support of the mission and values of the Toppel Career Center within the calendar year. In order to be eligible, student groups must be Registered Student Organizations or Registered Greek Organizations at the University of Miami who have exemplified professional development and/or career awareness in their programming/philanthropic efforts. 2022 Recipient: oSTEM Distinguished Administrator The Distinguished Administrator Award is presented to an administrator for making a significant, positive contribution to the university and for promoting professional and career development among University of Miami students through collaborative efforts. In order to be eligible, administrators must be full-time employees, who have worked for the University for more than one year. All administrators who have engaged in helping students in their career exploration and job search process, whether it is formally part of one's job or not, are eligible. Toppel Staff members are not eligible. 2022 Recipients: Andrea Jimenez & Christopher Clarke Distinguished Faculty The Distinguished Faculty Award is presented to a faculty member who actively supports the development of the University of Miami career community and the Toppel Career Center. This may occur through the following: Incorporating career development and career advising into their teaching and student advising Seeking out partnerships with employers, graduate/professional programs, Career Services, and others who may provide internship, job or graduate/professional school opportunities for students In order to be eligible, nominees must be current members of the University of Miami faculty. All faculty who have engaged in helping students in their career exploration and job search process, whether it is formally a part of one's job or not are eligible for nomination. 2022 Recipient: Andrea Heuson Employer of the Year The Employer of the Year Award is presented to one organization for making significant contributions to the University of Miami community through support of career programs, sponsorship of events, and recruitment of our students and alumni. In order to be eligible, employers must have posted a job/internship position and have participated in at least one Career Center event within the calendar year. 2022 Employer Recipients: Bloomberg L.P. & Federal Reserve Board Recruiter of the Year The Recruiter of the Year Award is presented to one individual for making significant contributions to the University of Miami community through support of career programs, sponsorship of events, and recruitment of our students and alumni. In order to be eligible, the recruiter must have participated in at least one Career Center event within the calendar year. 2022 Recipient: Afrika Rameses-Annunm Program of the Year Award The Program of the Year Award is presented to an individual, student organization, or faculty/administrator who has successfully implemented a career-focused program. The program must have made a significant impact on the professional development and career readiness of University of Miami students. An example of a career program would be, "Dress Codes, Hairstyles, Tattoos, and Piercings in Today's Ever-Evolving Workplace." 2022 Recipient: MSA Brave Spaces #BreakThru The Toppel Career Center's theme for 2020-2021 was #BreakThru, which represents moving past any uncertainty, fear, apathy, or information overload surrounding diversity, equity, and inclusion. It’s about pushing past barriers and putting in the work to grow personally and professionally. It’s taking advantage of opportunities and moving forward in meaningful ways. The #BreakThru Award is presented to an individual, student organization, faculty/administrator, or employer who consistently demonstrates a commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts for the University of Miami community. 2022 #BreakThru Recipient: Ashu Agarwal Patricia Toppel Award The Patricia Toppel Award was introduced in 2017 to recognize individuals, both on and off campus, who have consistently made a positive impact on the work of the Toppel Career Center. Recipients of the Patricia Toppel Award are selected by Toppel staff based on their long-term support and collaboration in Toppel's services. 2022 Administrator Recipient: Anne Levy 2022 Employer Recipient: Jewel Martin University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices