Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs & Internships HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Directions & Accommodations About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs & Internships HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Directions & Accommodations About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Recruit at the U Talent Engagement Opportunities AAA Talent Engagement Opportunities Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs & Internships HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Directions & Accommodations Recruiting University of Miami students is easy! The Toppel Career Center offers a multitude of ways to engage with our talented students. These talent engagement opportunities will allow you to develop genuine relationships with UM students and create a customizable recruitment strategy. We recommend a comprehensive approach that combines several of the opportunities described below. Already know what you want? Great! Use Handshake to request whichever of these opportunities you’d like.* Don’t have a Handshake account? Click here for information on how to create one. We’re also happy to talk through these options and help you select the optimum recruiting strategy (contact us). For career fairs and meet-ups, check out our events page. *Culture Videos, Employer of the Day, and UShadow cannot be requested from Handshake. To discuss these options, please contact us directly. **For culture video inspiration, check out our Toppel Culture Video! Your Ideas We want to hear your ideas and love to experiment with new programs that attract students to your organization. If you are interested in sharing an idea of your own, please contact Jennifer Perez at jennifer.perez@miami.edu. Recruiting Policies The Toppel Career Center has developed the following policies to ensure that University of Miami students and alumni are treated fairly and are being recruited for viable positions. Employers and organizations recruiting UM students are expected to abide by and adhere to these policies in addition to the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) Principles for Professional Practice and the Fair Labor Standards Act. In addition to the recruiting policies below, please also review our job posting policies. Commitment to Anti-Racism The Toppel Career Center denounces and stands against racism. We stand in solidarity with and support Black lives. The Toppel Career Center team will remain dedicated to educating students, employers, and each other about diversity, equity, and inclusion in our society, and specifically, in the workplace. We will continue to listen, learn, educate, and challenge ourselves to promote and stand for anti-racism in support of UM students, alumni, and the employers who recruit at the U. Toppel will continue and increase efforts that educate and challenge recruiters on diversity, equity, and inclusion, such as HireACane Academy. Non-Discrimination Policy It is the policy of the University of Miami that no person within the jurisdiction thereof shall, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, disability, veteran status, genetic information or any other protected factor be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination or harassment (including all forms of sexual harassment and sexual violence) under any program or activity of the University, regardless of whether such program or activity occurs on-campus or off-campus. The Toppel Career Center adheres to this policy. As a result, we will provide access to UM students (via Handshake postings, information sessions, programs, and events), and make our facilities available only to recruiting organizations whose practices are consistent with this policy. Third-Party Recruiter Policy The Toppel Career Center does not endorse or recommend any third-party employment services. According to the National Association of Colleges and Universities (NACE) “Principles for Career Services Professionals,” third-party recruiters are agencies, organizations, or individuals recruiting candidates for temporary, part-time, or full-time employment opportunities other than for their own needs. This includes entities that refer or recruit for profit or not for profit, and it includes agencies that collect student information to be disclosed to employers for purposes of recruitment and employment. Third-Party recruiters who are hiring for positions within their organization are welcome to recruit on-campus and submit employment opportunities through Handshake. The Toppel Career Center will not post positions on Handshake for clients of third-party recruiters. Offer Deadline Policy The Toppel Career Center requires that you abide by the following offer policies to allow our students sufficient time to carefully consider their employment options and make informed decisions. Summer: Full-time or internship offers extended to students during the summer should expire no earlier than Fall Recess (UM Academic Calendar). Fall: Full-time and internship offers extended to students during the Fall semester should expire no earlier than November 15th or a minimum of three weeks after they are given (whichever comes later). Spring: Full-time offers extended to students during the Spring semester should expire no sooner than two weeks after they are given. Internship offers should expire no earlier than the beginning of Spring Recess (UM Academic Calendar) or a minimum of two weeks after they are given (whichever comes later). These deadlines will give our students sufficient time to explore their options and make as informed a decision as possible. In the end, we want you to obtain the best candidates and we want our students to have the best opportunities! In the spirit of collaboration, we hope that you will inform us of any offers made and also let us know of any of our students who renege on an acceptance of an internship or full-time job offer. Job Type Restrictions Commission-Only Employment Employers and individuals offering employment/entrepreneurial opportunities must pay a base salary equal to or greater than the federal minimum wage and comply with federal, state, and local regulations. Upfront Product Purchase Employers and individuals offering employment/entrepreneurial opportunities with compensation packages requiring commission only or requiring prospective employees to purchase products or services upfront are not permitted to recruit on campus or attend career fairs. “Pyramid” or "Multi-Level" Employers Employers/individuals offering employment/entrepreneurial opportunities based on a "pyramid" or "multi-level" networking structure requiring or encouraging the recruitment of others who recruit others and so on to sell products and services will not be permitted to recruit on campus or attend Career Fairs. Part-Time Positions We do not post part-time positions. To post your part-time job, contact the Office of Student Employment at ose@miami.edu or visit their website. Babysitting or other In-Home Employment We do not post babysitting jobs or other positions where an employee will work out of someone else's dwelling (house, apartment, condo, etc). University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices