Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home About Us Reserve a Toppel Space AAA Reserve a Toppel Space The Career Reflections Courtyard is a beautiful outdoor space for receptions and can accommodate up to 200 people. The Career Loft is a multipurpose space that can be set up to accommodate lectures, receptions, networking events, and more! The Employer Lounge is a cozy environment for informal meetings and small get-togethers. Comfortable, spacious, and fun, the Toppel Career Center offers a room to meet just about any need you may have. Our spaces range from small meeting rooms to large conference spaces for up to 100 people. Equipped with the latest technology, you will be able to present, record, and interact physically and digitally in a variety of formats. Are you looking for a comfortable and engaging space to hold a meeting, conference, interview, or something else? The Toppel Career Center has over 12,000 square feet of space, and the majority of that space is available for rental by the UM and local communities. Our spaces range from small meeting rooms to large conference spaces for up to 100 people. Equipped with the latest technology, you will be able to present, record, and interact physically and digitally in a variety of formats. Comfortable, spacious, and fun, the Toppel Career Center offers a room to meet just about any need you may have. While you're here, find inspiration from the beautiful artwork by Gapingvoid in each room and throughout the Center. Choose the perfect space for your needs by reviewing room descriptions, lists of available technology, and prices for UM departments and friends of the University below. If you have any questions about our spaces, please contact toppel@miami.edu or 305-284-5451. Request a space. The Loft Sq. Footage: 2,617 sq. ft. Capacity: Lectures 100 | Classroom 40 | Hollow Square 40 | U-Shape 30 | Boardroom 25 Technologies: Video Conferencing, Lecture Capturing, 360 Recording, AV, HDMI, Apple TV, DVD/Blu-ray, Microphones, Speakers Cost: UM Departments $600 | UM Affiliate / Community - $800 Conference & Seminar Room Sq. Footage: 655 sq. ft. Capacity: 20 Technologies: Video Conferencing, Lecture Capturing, 360 Recording, AV, HDMI, Apple TV, DVD/Blu-ray, Microphones, Speakers Cost: UM Departments $500 | UM Affiliate / Community - $700 Career Reflections Courtyard Sq. Footage: 2,800 sq. ft. Capacity: 75-200 (depending on set-up) Cost: UM Departments $500 | UM Affiliate / Community - $700 The Stone-Rodriguez Grand Lobby Sq. Footage: 853 sq. ft. Capacity: 50 Technologies: TV Array Cost: UM Departments $400 I UM Affiliate / Community - $500 Employer Lounge Sq. Footage: 245 sq. ft. Capacity: 6 Technologies: TV with Apple TV Cost: UM Departments $300 | UM Affiliate / Community - $400 The Stone-Rodriguez Career Technology Lab Sq. Footage: 1,151 sq. ft. Capacity: 20 Technologies: Lecture Capturing, 360 Recording, AV, HDMI, Apple TV, DVD/Blu-ray, Microphones, Speakers Cost: UM Departments $400 | UM Affiliate / Community - $600 Interview Labs 1 and 2 Sq. Footage: 55-66 sq. ft. Capacity: 2 Technologies: Video Conferencing, 360 Recording Cost: UM Departments $150 | UM Affiliate / Community - $300 Interview Labs 3, 4, 5, and 6 Sq. Footage: 55-66 sq. ft. Capacity: 2 Technologies: 360 Recording Cost: UM Departments $100 | UM Affiliate / Community - $150 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices