Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home About Us Student Policies AAA Policies Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space As a ‘Cane, you are an ambassador representing the University of Miami for the rest of your life. Observing the highest professional and ethical standards is just part of the ‘Cane package. We know you always want to put your best foot forward, so we’ve put together a few policies to guide you as you work toward your dreams. Professional Standards & Student Responsibilities Open All Tabs Toppel & Employer-Sponsored Activities The University of Miami is an institution that prides itself on its reputation for affecting change in our community through education, research, innovation, and service. We want to be the touchstone for integrity, excellence, and responsibility. UM students and alumni uphold the highest standards within the community, through their research and creative activities, and with the organizations that employ them post-graduation. As a result, companies invest resources, time, and money by participating in recruitment events and sharing relevant internship and job opportunities for University of Miami students. UM students have the unique opportunity to develop personal relationships with university partners and recruiters that can ultimately lead to employment offerings. It is the explicit expectation of the Toppel Career Center that you will attend the events for which you have committed. These events may include, but are not limited to, career fairs, one-on-one meetings, information sessions, employer workshops, shadowing opportunities, and interviews. If you are unable to attend an event, you must cancel 48 hours before the event so we can notify other interested students of the opportunity. If you fail to attend an event and do not provide proper notice of cancellation, we will restrict your access to Handshake and remove your name from future opportunities and invitations. The University’s relationships with the community, employers, and partners rely upon the respect that we have for each other and each other’s time. Resources, jobs, and employers are finite, and therefore you have a moral duty to follow through with your commitments and maintain high standards of integrity. Your actions are not only a reflection of you, but of your peers, family, our alumni, and the institution. The Toppel Career Center is confident in your ability to reflect the best of the U and we are here to help along the way. No Show Policy The no show policy applies when a student does not appear for a scheduled on-campus interview and/or when a student does not cancel their interview with at least 48 hours advance notice. All interview cancellations must be made in writing to jennifer.perez@miami.edu, including emergencies. First Offense - The student will: Lose full access to Handshake until they attend a meeting with the Assistant Director of Campus Talent Contact the Career Center to schedule the meeting by phone (305-284-9673) or via email Provide a letter of apology addressed “Dear Recruiter” in electronic format Second Offense - The student will be banned from all recruiting activities Misrepresentation Falsifying data such as your identity, GPA, dates of graduation, major/minor, work experience, or other information is unethical and in violation of the Toppel Career Center’s standards. If you falsify documents or misrepresent yourself to any employer, whether via our recruiting program or in your independent job search, the Career Center has the right to rescind your privileges to use our services. You may also be subject to additional repercussions from the Dean of Students Office and from employers themselves. Rescinding Job/Internship Offers Once you accept a job/internship offer, whether via our recruiting program or in your independent job search, you are expected to withdraw completely from the job search process. If you are uncertain as to whether you should accept an offer or would like guidance on salary negotiations, please consult with a Toppel Career Center staff member. Rescinding is unprofessional and jeopardizes UM's reputation in the employment community, as well as your own professional reputation. Should you renege on an offer, the Career Center may block you from participating in any additional on-campus interviews or revoke your access to Handshake. Beware Fraudulent Job Postings The Toppel Career Center makes every effort to screen employers and job postings on Handshake. Unfortunately, there are individuals who post “fake” jobs for the purpose of identity theft or fraud. When using Handshake or other job sites, students should be mindful and use caution when applying for or accepting any position. Things to Look for: The posting appears to be from a reputable, familiar company, but they are contacting you with a personal email (and not one associated with the company) The position requires an initial investment, such as a payment by wire service or courier Job postings that have many spelling and grammatical errors You are offered a large payment or reward in exchange for allowing the use of your bank account (often for depositing checks or transferring money Important Tips: Never give your personal bank account, PayPal account, or credit card information Do not agree to have funds or paychecks directly deposited into any accounts by a new employer Do not cash a check from the organization in order to send funds to another account If you have any questions or need to report a suspicious employer, contact the Toppel Career Center at 305-284-5451 or HireACane@miami.edu. Right to Peacefully Protest The University of Miami Toppel Career Center believes in equity for all, especially those seeking employment and higher education. We also staunchly advocate for the constitutional right of students to peacefully protest. We know that during times of injustice, students may have questions about how protesting will look to future employers and graduate programs. Employers and graduate programs often look at students holistically when making hiring or admittance decisions. If a student was to be arrested while peacefully protesting, they would often have space in an application to explain context if there was an arrest record made. At this time, many professional associations have also issued statements that support a person’s right to peacefully protest. We feel these statements may give insight into how employers and graduate programs will handle these scenarios in an application. If a student would like to speak to a career advisor about any specific questions, they can please contact us at toppel@miami.edu for assistance. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices