Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Exploring Majors & Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Explore Career Options Career Crawls AAA Career Crawls UM students on the inaugural Miami Career Crawl show their school spirit. Where will U live and work after graduation? Discover what it's really like to live and work in cities of interest to you by engaging in Virtual Career Crawls, immersive experiences that allow you to explore career paths and connect with that city's UM community in a virtual environment! About the Career Crawl Program Career Crawls have taken place in a variety of domestic and international cities, and are now virtual! This educational program is open to sophomores and juniors. Why should you be excited to participate in a Career Crawl? Visit local employers on-site or virtually: Experience their work environment and company culture firsthand. Learn about current and emerging career paths in that organization and industry. Engage in interactive activities designed to give you a feel for their work. Meet UM alumni: Get answers to the questions you’re eager to ask: How did they find employment and make connections in that city? What was the most challenging aspect of their transition from Miami? How much does an apartment in the city really cost? Enhance your career readiness: Hear advice on what you should be doing NOW to successfully transition to that city’s workforce after graduation. Gain insight into the skills and qualities that will make you stand out to employers. Reflect on how your Career Crawl experience has shaped your professional development. Career Crawls Virtual Career Crawl: October 6, 2021, 5:00-7:00 pm Focus: Intelligence Agencies Participating Organizations: Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Register on Handshake! Past Career Crawls Virtual Career Crawl: April 7, 2021 Focus: Technology Industry Participating Organizations: Tesla, Microsoft, Citrix Virtual Career Crawl: January 13, 2021 Focus: NYC Participating Organizations: Bloomberg, ESPN, SiriusXM Virtual Career Crawl: November 10, 2020 Focus: West Coast Participating Organizations: Google, Nike, Netflix Washington, DC (May 2017) Industry Focus: Government and Public Service Site Visits: FBI, Capitol Hill (Offices of Congressman Carlos Curbelo, Congresswoman Ann Mclane Kuster, Congressman Brian Mast), Peace Corps, Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Department of State Miami (April 2017) Industry Focus: Hospitality Site Visits: Carnival, National Hotel (Panel featuring Greater Miami & The Beaches Hotel Association, Daycation App, Port Miami, and Greater Miami Convention & Visitors Bureau) New York City (March 2017) Industry Focus: Media and Branding Site Visits: Yelp, NBC News, Ogilvy & Mather, Canon Solutions America (Ralph Lauren, CBS Radio, and Nielsen canceled due to weather) London (October 2016) Industry Focus: Global Careers Site Visits: LetterOne, Chime Communications Limited, Corsair Capital LLC, Diageo, Morgan Stanley, White & Case LLP, Robert Walters Washington, DC (May 2016) Industry Focus: Government & Public Service Site Visits: Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute, Alpine Group, MAXIMUS, US Global Leadership Coalition, Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Department of State Downtown Miami (April 2016) Industry Focus: Nonprofit Site Visits: Miami Foundation, Knight Foundation, United Way Miami-Dade Testimonials from Past Participants "Being fully submersed in another culture and way of working truly opened my eyes and gave me a very genuine taste of how I would act and feel living and working abroad. Gaining insights and perspectives from some of the most successful people in business built my confidence as I begin my process to enter the professional business field and gave me unique insights I could not have gotten otherwise." - London 2016 “Great chance to see the actual working environment and get a sense if you will like working in that industry/job or not.” - Miami 2016 “The best [part] was meeting with past alumni who have a connection to you, and somehow already know and understand you.” - DC 2016 "Such an eye opening experience. Made a huge impact on my life and my goals. Probably one of the most beneficial experiences." - London 2016 “Being able to visit organizations with people who are so passionate about their cause and mission was truly inspiring.” - Miami 2016 “I made great contacts throughout the crawl and have maintained contact with them.” - DC 2016 How to Participate Ready to pack your suitcase? Here’s what you need to know about participating in a Career Crawl. Eligibility Career Crawls are open to current University of Miami students of all schools/colleges who are classified as sophomores or juniors at the time of the Crawl. You must be in good academic and disciplinary standing. Application Process Links to specific application instructions for each Career Crawl will be included in “Upcoming Career Crawls” above when the application process for that Crawl opens. Applications are completed online and include short answer questions focused on why you are interested in participating and what you hope to gain from that Career Crawl, as well as a resume submission. For some Career Crawls, you will also be asked to conduct a brief presentation. Between 15-20 students are typically selected for each Crawl. Fees If you are selected to participate in a Career Crawl, you will need to pay a $100 administrative fee in order to secure your spot. All other costs for Crawl activities (flights, hotels, local transportation, meals) will be covered by the Toppel Career Center and our partners. However, don’t forget to bring spending money for souvenirs or other personal expenditures! University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices