Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Faculty About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Faculty About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Faculty and Staff Involvement AAA Career Champions Network Faculty The Toppel Career Center’s Career Champions Network initiative engages and prepares faculty and staff in the University of Miami community to feel comfortable sharing up to date and relevant career development information with the students they work with on a daily basis. Faculty and staff have consistent interactions with students across campus -- interactions for which the Career Champions Network initiative is aimed to equip, guide and connect faculty and staff to confidently and accurately carry out. What is the Career Champions Network? The main goal behind the Career Champions Network is to prepare our students as much as possible to be professionally ready for opportunities during and after their time at the University of Miami. Through a series of workshops and presentations, faculty and staff will feel prepared to powerfully and deliberately assist students with their career development and become very knowledgeable about the resources and services offered to students at the Toppel Career Center. The sessions are as follows: Career Education Trends and Frameworks Gain insight into new trends happening in career education and the frameworks we utilize to support our students in their careers. Wednesday, January 26, 3:30-5:00PM Lunch & Learn: Using Technology to Navigate Careers Demo our Handshake and Cane2Cane platforms and learn ways to incorporate them into your work. Thursday, February 24, 12:00-1:00pm Engaging Employers and the Future of Work Learn what UM students are looking for in employers and how we help facilitate these connections. Wednesday, March 23, 3:30-5:00PM Explore, Prepare, Connect: Our Model for Supporting Students Discuss how we can better support students through the processes of exploring, preparing, and connecting. Wednesday, April 20, 3:30-5:00PM How do I get involved? The Toppel Career Center is excited to grow our support system for University of Miami students! To learn more about the Career Champions Network email Carly Smith or fill out the interest form. Toppel in the Classroom Why cancel class when you can rely on us? Dedicated Toppel Career Center staff are available to present to your class on a variety of career-related topics. Would you like an employer to come in and present to your students on a specific organization or industry? We can also assist you with this! Are you looking to embed career education into your course? Toppel has a variety of tools to help facilitate career assignments in the classroom including: Industry or Competency-Based Practice Interviews Resume or Professional Document Reviews Group Career Assessment Facilitation And much more... To inquire about classroom presentations or assignments, please take a moment to fill out the Workshop Request Form or reach out directly to Douglas Neese. Become a Career Contributor The Toppel Career Center's Custom Career Content webpage creates a personalized experience for students and alumni to navigate their careers based on categories such as industries, Career Circles, identity groups, and more. Engage with University of Miami students and alumni by submitting a guest blog/article, promoting an event, or recommending a resource. It’s quick and easy! Become a Career Contributor University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices