Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network About Us Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Career Circles Recruit at the U Alumni Faculty Search Exploring Majors & Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing UShadow FAQs Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options About Us About the Center Going Hybrid (Virtual & In-Person) Meet the Staff Policies Career Outcomes Reserve a Space UM Facts & Figures Career Options Explore Majors and Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options Gain Experience Search for Jobs, Internships, & Projects Toppel Internship Program Toppel Internship Fund Internship FAQs InternU Connect With Employers Build Your Skills Resources Find a Career Mentor Make the Most of Handshake Resume & Cover Letter Help Interview Preparation Identity-Based Resources Graduate Student Resources Request a Program Toppel Insider Newsletter Events Career Education Programs Career Fairs Toppel Awards Career Circles Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Sciences Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Recruit at the U Why Recruit at the U? Connect With Students Career Fairs & Meet-Ups Posting Jobs and internships Contact Student Orgs HireACane Academy Sponsorship DEIB Recruiting Kit Alumni Faculty Career Champions Network Exploring Majors & Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing UShadow FAQs Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options About Us Explore Career Options Gain Experience Resources Events Alumni Faculty Recruit at the U Home Explore Career Options Job Shadowing AAA Shadow Exploring Majors & Careers Career Advising Job Shadowing UShadow FAQs Career Crawls Choosing a Graduate Program Gap Year Options UM Alum Rick De la Guardia from DLG Engineering, Inc., speaks about the benefits of job shadowing. Wondering if you’re on the right career path? Learn more about a career or work environment through job shadowing. Job Shadowing Job shadowing experiences allow you to gain insight into a career by observing a professional in their work environment. Through sufficient preparation, job shadowing should serve as a highly immersive learning experience. Most importantly, observing professionals in the workplace has the potential to help you make more informed decisions about your career choice. Depending on your interest and the flexibility of your job shadowing host, job shadowing can take place over the course of one day or even several days. Considering multiple shadowing opportunities can also help you gain a more holistic understanding of a career in your field of interest. Benefits of Job Shadowing Develop a holistic perspective of the benefits and challenges of a specific career Find mentors in your field(s) of interest Build your professional network Gain professional experience you can discuss when interviewing for jobs Hone essential career readiness and industry-specific skills Types of Job Shadowing Experiences Meeting(s) with your job shadow host virtually or in-person Informational interview(s) with your host and other members of their company/organization about their job responsibilities and career paths Shadowing throughout a half-day, full-day, or over the course of several days or weeks achieved through observation, activity briefings, and sometimes the performance of hands-on activities under the supervision of the host Lunch meeting followed by a tour (virtual or in-person) of a company And other relevant professional activities! Finding a Professional to Shadow Research your field of interest to find a specific position (or positions) that you would like to learn more about. Need help figuring out what areas you would be interested in exploring? Check out our SCAN webpage dedicated to helping you explore possible occupations and life paths based on your interests, passions, needs, and skills. Utilize networking resources such as LinkedIn or our Cane2Cane Career & Mentorship Network to find professionals who might be open to having you shadow them. On Cane2Cane, under the “Community” tab, you can search for mentors by location, industries, majors, and more. You can also find mentors who have selected "Job Shadowing" as a help topic. This way, you can explore with confidence knowing they are looking for the opportunity to serve as a job shadow resource. On LinkedIn, you can search for University of Miami alumni through the alumni tool and filter by location, degree, company, job role, and more. Ask any professional that you meet for the opportunity to shadow them in their workplace. Connect with contacts from your own network, or the networks of friends and family. Looking to shadow a physician to learn more about the medical field? Check out some tips on which virtual medical shadowing opportunities are the best here. Tips to Maximize a Job Shadowing Experience Before your job shadowing experience, create a list of questions to ask your host. You can find a list of sample questions in this guide. Dress as though you are going to a job interview to practice professionalism and leave hosts with positive impressions to maintain these connections if desired. Not sure what to wear? Check out our interviewing page to learn more. Take notes throughout your job shadowing experience to record things you learn and demonstrate interest. Demonstrate respect and gratitude to your hosts by thanking them afterward with a thank you note or email. Keep the thank you note concise, express your gratitude towards the top of your note, mention a specific thing you learned or enjoyed while shadowing your host, and review your grammar and spelling. Here is a sample thank you note for a job shadow host. Informational Interviews When you are job shadowing, it is important to utilize your time to gain further information about a career you might be interested in or a company you might want to work for. Informational interviews are a way to gather this information from the professionals you are meeting. Check out this guide that our Toppel staff has put together to conduct an informational interview! Learn how to get the most out of an informational interview. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 P 305-284-5451 P 305-284-5451 E: toppel@miami.edu Resources Handshake About UM Workday CaneLink Blackboard Academic Calendar UM Network Alumni Association The Launchpad UM Careers Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices