Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Department of the History of Science CONTACT US / VISIT APPLY Search HOME About Our Approach Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses People Faculty Graduate Students Department Staff Resources Keep Harvard Healthy Events Working Groups STS Circle at Harvard Events News Museum Latest News Prof. Peter Galison's latest film profiles Nobel prize-winning physicist. April 25, 2022 Galison's film "Shattering Stars" examines how Indian physics prodigy Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar followed an arduous academic path from the formulation of a stellar theory considered by some too radical for its time in the 1930s.... Read more about Prof. Peter Galison's latest film profiles Nobel prize-winning physicist. Oreskes and Co-Authors Dispute Premise in EPA-related Supreme Court Case February 28, 2022 In an opinion piece in The Boston Globe, DHS Prof. Naomi Oreskes and Harvard graduate student co-authors Colleen Lanier-Christensen, Hannah Conway, and Ashton Macfarlane dismiss the idea that writers of the 1970 Clean Air Act never intended the then newly conceived Environmental Protection Agency would have regulatory purview over issues of climate change. Read more about Oreskes and Co-Authors Dispute Premise in EPA-related Supreme Court Case More Facebook Feed Embed Harvard History of Science Department Facebook Javascript History of Science & The Coronavirus Pandemic Our faculty provide insights into the ongoing global health crisis. "Shattering Stars" Gives Stellar Physics Another Dimension A new film directed by Peter Galison Oh, the places you'll go! Opportunities for History of Science Concentrators Doubt A musical collaboration inspired by the Naomi Oreskes' "Merchants of Doubt." The Harvard Science Center Home of the Department of History of Science Science Center, Room 371 1 Oxford Street. • Cambridge, MA • 02138 hsdept@fas.harvard.edu Embed Code: fixlineheight = .8em Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement