Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | HILI Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Academics Meet Us Resources Student Life Events Why Paris? Applying to HILI Tuition and Fellowships Curriculum M.A. Essay Courses at Reid Hall Courses at French Universities Ecole Normale Superieure EHESS Academic Calendar Tutoring Affiliated Columbia Faculty Partner Institution Faculty Featured Faculty Administration Current Students Student Alumni Libraries Open Access Libraries General Libraries and Centers of Documentation Specialized Libraries Bookstores and Useful Links Archives Visas Campus France Registration Obtaining the Visa Titre de Séjour Health Insurance Housing Internships Lectures Co-curricular Activities Columbia | HILI History and Literature Program Photo Jilene Chua HILI 2015 Welcome Master of Arts in History and Literature Columbia University in Paris Why HILI in Paris? “Cross-disciplinary by design, upholding Columbia’s high standards, and tapping into the extraordinary intellectual resources of Paris, HILI is unique.” - Pierre Force ABOUT THE PROGRAM Columbia University’s M.A. in History and Literature is an innovative program that explores the interconnections and intersections between history and literature, both as categories of cultural production and as scholarly disciplines. In the past thirty years the boundaries between history and literature have become usefully blurred. Furthermore, the dialogue between the two has taken many different forms. In literary studies, there has been a re-evaluation of the traditional field of literary history, with greater attention paid to the historical evolution of genres and styles. Historians have taken in the notion that history is a literary genre and are aware of the interplay between archival material and historical imagination. Several thriving and inter-related fields like literary history, the history of the book, intellectual history, and the history of science are now history and literature hybrids. The M.A. in History and Literature capitalizes on this propitious intellectual moment. The program is held at Columbia’s Global Centers Paris, located at Reid Hall in the sixth arrondissement in Paris. Students are taught by eminent scholars in history and literature from Columbia University, and also choose from a wide variety of courses at France’s two top-tier graduate schools in the humanities and the social sciences: the Ecole normale supérieure and the Ecole des hautes études en sciences sociales. Students develop a sophisticated awareness of theoretical issues, addressing new methodological horizons. They also acquire the philological tools required for the interpretation of texts in print or manuscript form. This practical training includes hands-on sessions conducted at the Bibliothèque nationale de France and the Archives nationales de France. Stipends are offered by Columbia to allow students to conduct independent research at archives in France and across Europe, and to attend international conferences closely related to their subject. We expect many students to have an interest in French history and literature, but we also welcome students who wish to work on materials in other languages. M.A. courses are taught in English or French. Written work can be done in English or in French. MA Essay is written in English. A Unique M.A. Experience Transcript Caio Moraes Ferreira discusses his reasons for choosing the HILI program. WHY HILI? Alum Caio Ferreira discusses why he chose the HILI program for its unique approach to history and literature from an interdisciplinary perspective and for the hands-on guidance provided by faculty members. APPLY NOW Ready to apply? Applications for the 2022-2023 academic year are open. Applications are submitted through Columbia University's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). First Application Deadline: January 21, 2022 Final Application Deadline: May 5, 2022 Join us today. Click for application information. Featured Faculty 2022-2023 Each year HILI brings leading Columbia faculty to Paris to exclusively teach our M.A. students. Thomas Dodman Thomas Dodman Fall 2022 Malgorzata Mazurek Malgorzata Mazurek Spring 2023 Robert O'Meally Robert O'Meally Summer 2023 More Information bank icon Admissions graduation-cap icon Academics group icon Meet Us book icon Resources child icon Student Life calendar icon Events Google Map Location Columbia Global Centers, Reid Hall4, rue de Chevreuse, 75006 · Paris, Fr Phone Paris: +33 143209203 | NYC: +1 212.854.9854 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close