Admissions Bachelor’s Admissions Master’s Admissions Doctoral Admissions Academics Bachelor’s in: Sport Management Minors Coaching Minor Sport Management Minor Dance Minor Health Minor Bachelor’s in Kinesiologyconcentration in the following areas: Applied Exercise Physiology Basic Exercise Physiology B.S. in Kinesiology / M.S. in Athletic Training Program Dance Science Exercise and Sport Science Motor Behavior Physical Education Teacher Certification Bachelor’s in University Studiesconcentration in the following areas: Dance Bachelor’s in Health Educationconcentration in the following areas: Allied Health Community Health Master’s in: Athletic Training Health Education Health Education (Online) Sport Management Master’s in Kinesiologyemphasis in the following areas: Clinical Exercise Physiology Exercise Physiology Motor Neuroscience Sport Pedagogy Sports Physiology West Point Faculty Development Doctorate in: Health Education Doctorate in Kinesiologyemphasis in the following areas: Exercise Physiology Motor Neuroscience Sport Management Sport Pedagogy Advising Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising Frequently Asked Questions Research & Outreach Centers & Labs Center for Sport Management Research & Education Center for Translational Research in Aging and Longevity The Huffines Institute Outreach Coaching Academy CPR First Aid Training Aggie Ninja Certificate ChallengeWorks FitLife Huffines Institute CampAdventure Deerfoot Youth Camp Research Research Research Publications Undergraduate Research Opportunities Research Studies Human Clinical Research Facility About About Administration Vision & History Climate & Diversity Welcome from the Department Head Employment Facilities Contact Us Divisions Health Education Kinesiology Physical Education Activity Program Sport Management Student Resources Aggies COMMIT Global Education Student Organizations Financial Assistance HLKN Graduate Student Handbook Menu Education & Human Development Health & Kinesiology How to Apply MENUMENU Admissions Bachelor’s Admissions Master’s Admissions Doctoral Admissions Academics Bachelor's in: Sport Management Minors Coaching Minor Sport Management Minor Dance Minor Health Minor Master's in: Athletic Training Health Education Health Education (Online) Sport Management Doctorate in: Health Education Bachelor's in Health Educationconcentration in the following areas: Allied Health Community Health Bachelor's in Kinesiologyconcentration in the following areas: Applied Exercise Physiology Basic Exercise Physiology B.S. in Kinesiology / M.S. in Athletic Training Program Dance Science Exercise and Sport Science Motor Behavior Physical Education Teacher Certification Master's in Kinesiologyemphasis in the following areas: Clinical Exercise Physiology Exercise Physiology Motor Neuroscience Sport Pedagogy Sports Physiology West Point Faculty Development Doctorate in Kinesiologyemphasis in the following areas: Exercise Physiology Motor Neuroscience Sport Management Sport Pedagogy Bachelor's in University Studiesconcentration in the following areas: Dance Advising Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising Frequently Asked Questions Research & Outreach Outreach Coaching Academy CPR First Aid Training Aggie Ninja Certificate ChallengeWorks FitLife Huffines Institute CampAdventure Deerfoot Youth Camp Research Research Research Publications Undergraduate Research Opportunities Research Studies Human Clinical Research Facility Centers & Labs Center for Sport Management Research & Education Center for Translational Research in Aging and Longevity The Huffines Institute About About Administration Vision & History Climate & Diversity Welcome from the Department Head Employment Facilities Contact Us Divisions Health Education Kinesiology Physical Education Activity Program Sport Management Student Resources Aggies COMMIT Global Education Student Organizations Financial Assistance HLKN Graduate Student Handbook THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND KINESIOLOGY The Department of Health and Kinesiology (HLKN) is the largest academic department at Texas A&M University and generates over 98,000 credit hours and 203,000 (Modified) weighted student credit hours each year. As one of four departments in the College of Education and Human Development, HLKN is currently home to over 3,000 undergraduate students, 246 master’s students, 70 doctoral students (3,921 total), 179 minor students, 103 faculty members, 32 staff members and 90 funded graduate assistants. How to Apply Divisions of Health & Kinesiology The department is comprised of four divisions: Health Education, Kinesiology, Sport Management and the Physical Education Activity Program. Each division offers various degrees and outreach programs promoting continuing education for students and the community. Division of Health Education Prepares students to help people improve their health, and thereby the quality of life, through effective health education, powerful networking, strong leadership, meaningful research and selfless service to others. Health Education Division of Kinesiology We give students access and appreciation for all things kinesiology, emphasizing the biological basis to exercise and movement. Kinesiology Division of Sport Management The Sport Management Program is one of the top 5 programs in the country. Sport Management Division of Physical Education Activity Program PEAP offers health and fitness activity classes to every Texas A&M student. Physical Education Activity Program Former Student Highlight KOURTNEY MARTIN During her time as a Group Fitness Instructor at Texas A&M Rec Sports, she was presented with the opportunity to instruct WELLNESS WORKS! fitness sessions to faculty and staff at Texas A&M. She went on to complete her graduate internship with WELLNESS WORKS! before being named Employee Wellness Coordinator in 2017. Watch Her Story PROGRAMS Bachelor’s → Minors → Master’s → Doctoral → Emphasis Areas Bachelors Masters Doctoral Dance MotorBehavior Exercise Health Sport FROM OUR FORMER STUDENTS Chandler Stout ’15 discusses her experience as a Sports Management Major at the College of Education and Human Development. Chandler has been heavily involved in student organizations such as Kappa Alpha Theta Sorority, Freshman Leaders in Progress, Conference on Student Government Association Committee, Big Event, Relay for Life-Aggieland and Fish Camp. Watch her story Health and Kinesiology Academic Programs Home THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND KINESIOLOGY The Department of Health and Kinesiology (HLKN) is the largest academic department at Texas A&M University and generates over 98,000 credit hours and 203,000 (Modified) weighted student credit hours each year. As one of four departments in the College of Education and Human Development, HLKN is currently home to over 3,000 undergraduate students, 246 master’s students, 70 doctoral students (3,921 total), 179 minor students, 103 faculty members, 32 staff members and 90 funded graduate assistants. How to Apply Divisions of Health & Kinesiology The department is comprised of four divisions: Health Education, Kinesiology, Sport Management and the Physical Education Activity Program. Each division offers various degrees and outreach programs promoting continuing education for students and the community. Division of Health Education Prepares students to help people improve their health, and thereby the quality of life, through effective health education, powerful networking, strong leadership, meaningful research and selfless service to others. Health Education Division of Kinesiology We give students access and appreciation for all things kinesiology, emphasizing the biological basis to exercise and movement. Kinesiology Division of Sport Management The Sport Management Program is one of the top 5 programs in the country. Sport Management Division of Physical Education Activity Program PEAP offers health and fitness activity classes to every Texas A&M student. Physical Education Activity Program Former Student Highlight KOURTNEY MARTIN During her time as a Group Fitness Instructor at Texas A&M Rec Sports, she was presented with the opportunity to instruct WELLNESS WORKS! fitness sessions to faculty and staff at Texas A&M. She went on to complete her graduate internship with WELLNESS WORKS! before being named Employee Wellness Coordinator in 2017. Watch Her Story PROGRAMS Bachelor’s → Minors → Master’s → Doctoral → Emphasis Areas Bachelors Masters Doctoral Dance MotorBehavior Exercise Health Sport FROM OUR FORMER STUDENTS Chandler Stout ’15 discusses her experience as a Sports Management Major at the College of Education and Human Development. Chandler has been heavily involved in student organizations such as Kappa Alpha Theta Sorority, Freshman Leaders in Progress, Conference on Student Government Association Committee, Big Event, Relay for Life-Aggieland and Fish Camp. Watch her story Contact HLKN 107 Gilchrist Building 2929 Research Parkway College Station, TX 77843-4243 Call: (979) 845-3109 Email: info@hlkn.tamu.edu CEHD Links College of Education & Human Development Educational Administration & Human Resource Development Educational Psychology Health & Kinesiology Teaching, Learning & Culture Resources Department Faculty Differential Tuition Tuition Calculator Quick Links Climate & Diversity Online Degree Programs Bachelor’s Degree Programs Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Programs ©2022 Texas A&M Education and Human Development TAMU Accessibility CEHD Web Team Site Policies Sitemap