Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Departments OPIA For Employers For Employers Bernard Koteen Office of Public Interest Advising (OPIA) About OPIA What is Public Interest Law? Practice Settings Work Types Issue Areas International Public Interest Law Practice Setting Public Service in the Private Sector Job Search Toolkit Finding the Right Fit Preparing Materials Applying for Jobs Interviewing Negotiating Your Offer Planning Your Job Search Gateway to PI Jobs: Fellowships HLS Fellowship Opportunities Harvard University Fellowships External Fellowships Current Student Services Alumni Services Bernard Koteen Office of Public Interest Advising 4039 Wasserstein Hall (WCC)1585 Massachusetts AvenueCambridge, MA02138Phone: 617-495-3108Email: opia@law.harvard.eduHours: 9:00am - 5:00pm EST In This Page Recruiting Resources Best Practices for Hosting Virtual Interns Explore our resources for public interest employers seeking to recruit Harvard Law School students for open positions or fellowships or participate in OPIA’s mock interview program. Be sure to review our employer recruiting policies. Recruiting Resources Recruiting Resources Advertise a Job or Internship Recruit for a Job or Internship Host a Fellow Participate in OPIA's Mock Interview Program Advertise a Job or Internship AT HARVARD LAW SCHOOL Organizations may use our online job submission form to submit job opportunities. Important Job Posting Policies All employers that post job opportunities through the job submission form agree to comply with our Non-discrimination Policy. All employers also agree to comply with our Recruiting Policies, where applicable. We reserve the right in our sole discretion to restrict or remove any job posting without notice that appears to violate our Non-discrimination Policy or we otherwise feel is inappropriate for our students and/or alumni. We will not post any job opportunity or otherwise circulate employment information where a non-lawyer is seeking a student to perform legal research or engage in any activities that could potentially be construed as the unauthorized practice of law. Please note that we do not accept postings from third parties including search firms. REACH A WIDER AUDIENCE Employers may also post job announcements on the PSJD database to reach law students and alumni from selected schools across the country. Recruit for a Job or Internship AT HARVARD LAW SCHOOL Public interest employers are encouraged to participate in Harvard Law School’s fall and spring on-campus recruiting programs. The Virtual Public Interest Interview Program (V-PIIP) is coordinated by OPIA in the fall; the Spring Interview Program (SIP) is coordinated by the Office of Career services. Our office will publicize your visit, however, to ensure that public service-minded students hear about it. If you are interested in interviewing students on campus but are unable to participate in V-PIIP or SIP, we may be able to accommodate you with a resume collection program. Review our employer recruiting policies and contact Micah Nemiroff for more information at mnemiroff@law.harvard.edu. Register for the Virtual Public Interest Interview Program (V-PIIP) The Virtual Public Interest Interview Program (PIIP) is Harvard Law School’s fall interview program for 2L and 3L students seeking summer or post-graduate employment with non-profit organizations, public defenders, prosecutor offices, legal services organizations, government agencies, and private public interest law firms. The fall 2021 program will be held September 13-September 24, 2021. The program will be done entirely virtually and will not require any on-campus interviewing. To register, please review our employer recruiting policies and complete our registration survey. Should you have a hiring need but are unable to come to campus to participate in the program, we encourage you to complete the survey and register for a resume collection instead. If you are unable to participate in the interview program, you may submit job opportunities through our job submission form. Please email our office or (617) 495-3108 with any questions. REACH A WIDER AUDIENCE Consider representing your organization at the fall Equal Justice Works Career Fair for public interest employers. Students at any member law school may attend this recruitment event. Employers interested in reaching a wider audience are invited to participate in the Massachusetts Law School Consortium’s Public Interest/Government Recruitment Programs (spring and fall). Host a Fellow OPIA administers these Harvard Law School funded fellowship opportunities for employers to host an HLS student: Public Service Venture Fund David A. Grossman Fund Fellowship Harvard Law Review Public Interest Fellowship Archie Southgate Fellowship at Greater Boston Legal Services Participate in OPIA's Mock Interview Program Every fall, volunteers from public- and private-sector organizations come to campus to participate in a mock interview program aimed at preparing 1L students for the summer internship application process. Attorney volunteers conduct a series of twenty-minute interviews, followed by ten minutes of critique and feedback. We hope that you will consider participating in this valuable program. For more information, email Micah Nemiroff at mnemiroff@law.harvard.edu. Best Practices for Hosting Virtual Interns Best Practices for Hosting Virtual Interns When the COVID-19 pandemic took hold in spring 2020, employers needed to pivot quickly in order to host summer interns in mostly virtual settings. Fortunately, many public interest employers were able to adapt and overcome these challenges – just as they have done in so many other instances in their practices – and provide quality summer experiences for law student interns. Interns have expressed gratitude to be able to continue their learning process and work with employers, even through a difficult time for all. Below, we have identified common themes from law students who reflected positively on their virtual summer 2020 internship experiences. Employers may find these “lessons learned” useful when structuring virtual internship experiences in the future. Employers strived to show interns “the bigger picture” or culture within the office and to make interns feel like they were part of the team. Many interns seek summer placements in practice settings or offices with which they are less familiar in order to identify which settings they “click” with and may wish to join after graduation or later in their careers. Because developing an overall impression of a practice setting or office in a virtual environment can be difficult, interns appreciate when supervisors or other staff go the extra mile to integrate them into the flow of the office. Some ways to integrate interns within a broader office environment may include: Giving an all-office overview, describing organizational structure and staff roles and addressing how the office’s work has changed in a virtual environment Scheduling introductory meetings with members of different practice groups or teams, including those with which an intern may not be formally placed that summer Inviting interns to all-staff meetings and larger team meetings as well as smaller team meetings and one-on-one meetings with supervising attorneys Inviting interns to office social gatherings, such as weekly wind-downs or virtual “happy hours” Identifying cross-over opportunities where an intern may collaborate with staff outside of their assigned practice group Employers took the time to give meaningful feedback on interns’ work and to explain context for that work. Though law students arrive at their summer internships with a solid base of legal research and writing skills, they are still developing those skills and appreciate constructive feedback. Regular check-ins over Zoom or a similar platform to allow an intern to present their legal research findings and propose next steps can be meaningful opportunities for an intern to receive input and guidance. Additionally, even if there is no time for a supervisor to provide a full mark-up on an intern’s written product, email or oral feedback can be useful as an intern refines their drafting skills. Interns also often seek to understand how their legal research or memoranda will fit into particular cases, or larger team or office goals. Explaining the piece that an intern’s work represents in the larger puzzle of a particular filing, case, or strategy can provide key context and can sharpen the intern’s work to better suit a particular audience or situation. In addition, taking the extra step to connect over video or phone to replicate the types of brief but informative contextualizing conversations that interns and supervisors might normally have between a parking lot and a courtroom, in the supervisor’s office at the end of the day, or in the hallway after a team meeting, can significantly improve an intern’s experience. Employers adapted mentoring programs, training programs, and other professional development opportunities to virtual platforms. As interns seek to learn about different practice settings and legal issue areas and take their first few steps into the legal field, they often find mentoring and training programs invaluable. A program in which an intern is assigned an attorney mentor for the summer can be reproduced in a one-on-one virtual setting over video or by phone. Training programs, mock trial programs, or brown-bag lunches in which interns can learn certain skills or hear from speakers might also be reimagined into virtual, interactive meetings. Employers may even find that the virtual environment creates new opportunities to integrate speakers, trainers, or mentors who do not live in the same city or country. Employers maintained open lines of communication and flexibility regarding interns’ needs in a virtual environment. Like attorneys and other permanent staff, interns have experienced impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and remote work and learning in a wide variety of ways. Some interns have personal health concerns, child-rearing or elder care responsibilities, or other considerations specific to a virtual work environment. Some interns are eager to take advantage of any in-person experiences that may be possible, while others are unable to make such a commitment due to health, safety, or family concerns. Remaining communicative, receptive, and flexible where possible can provide all interns with a high-quality, safe summer experience. About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.