Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Alumni Making Your Gift Making Your Gift Alumni Harvard Law School Reunions Spring Reunion 2022 Upcoming Reunions Future Reunions Past Reunions Become a Volunteer Update Your Contact Info Giving to HLS Annual Fund Reunion Giving Become a Volunteer Contact Us Planned Giving Types of Planned Gifts Donor Stories Planned Giving Newsletter Contact the Planned Giving Office Donor Recognition Societies Honoring Our Donors How to Make Your Gift International Gifts by Country Alumni News and Profiles Harvard Law School Association (HLSA) Clubs Events Networking and Careers HLS Amicus Career Services for Alumni Young Alumni Contact Us Staff Directory Visit HLS Harvard Law School Alumni Center Pound Hall1563 Massachusetts AvenueCambridge, MA02138 Make Your Gift Each year, gifts to the Harvard Law School Annual Fund play a critical role in limiting tuition increases and in supporting key initiatives. Important programs such as financial aid, clinical education, and the Low Income Protection Plan, as well as numerous student organizations, depend on money given to the Annual Fund. Alumni and friends can contribute to Harvard Law School through a variety of methods. You can choose to make a gift to the Annual Fund that allows Dean Manning to address urgent community and campus needs, or you can choose to support an Annual Fund impact priority that’s important to you, including public service, clinical programs, or student financial support. Give Online To give online by credit card, please visit our secure online donation page. Gifts by Check Please make checks payable to Harvard Law School and note Annual Fund or the fund you wish to support: Harvard Law School Donor Services PO Box 412840 Boston, MA 02241-2840 For mail that requires a signature, such as FedEx, UPS, or DHL please use the following address: Bank Of America Lockbox Services Harvard Law School Box 412840 2 Morrissey Blvd MA5-527-02-07 Dorchester, MA 02125 Phone: 617 929-0043 Gifts by Credit Card To give online by credit card, please visit our secure online donation page. You may also contact Alumni & Development Services at 617-495-1750 and provide the following information: Type of credit card (Visa, MasterCard, or American Express) Amount of gift Exact name on credit card and Law School class Card account number Card expiration date Gifts by Bank Wire To transfer gifts of cash by bank wire, instruct your broker or banker to contact Alumni and Development Services at 617-495-1750 to indicate the gift amount and its purpose (e.g., to Harvard Law School, for unrestricted use). Bank wires may be delivered to: Bank of America 100 Federal Street Boston, MA 02110 President & Fellows of Harvard College, RSO account Account #: 9429263621 Ach ABA: 011000138 Wire ABA: 026009593 Swift Code: BOFAUS3N Memo/Reference: HLS Ext 5-9940, Donor Last Name, Gift Designation IMPORTANT – To ensure accurate handling, donors should send a confirmation email to ADS@harvard.edu and donorservices@law.harvard.edu with the following details: Donor Name Contact Phone Number Date the wire was sent Name of the originating bank Amount of the bank wire Was a wiring fee deducted from the wire amount? Gifts of Securities When donating stock to the Law School, alumni may take a standard charitable deduction for the mean fair market value of the stock on the date of the gift while also avoiding capital gains tax on appreciated securities. Avoiding capital gains tax decreases the cost of your gift by your applicable capital gains tax rate and makes donating appreciated securities the better option if you are considering whether to give cash or stock. To make a gift of securities please contact the Alumni and Development Services-Trust Administration at 866-845-6596 or donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu. To ensure proper processing of your gift, please notify the Law School of the stock transfer by email at donorservices@law.harvard.edu, or completing the following online form. Donors and their brokers must request transfer instructions directly from Harvard University located at the following address: President & Fellows of Harvard College, c/o Alumni & Development Services 124 Mount Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Attn: Trust Administration Tel: 866-845-6596 (toll-free) Fax: 866-457-6598 Email: donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu For Mutual Fund Shares All mutual fund transfers must be coordinated with the Alumni and Development Services-Trust Administration. For the team to determine the appropriate instructions, please call 866-845-6596 or email donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu with the following information: the name of the mutual fund, the number of shares, and where the fund is currently held. Tangible personal property may be deducted at the appraised market value only if the property is for the use of the Law School. Otherwise, it is deductible at cost basis. Matching Gifts Many employers sponsor matching gift programs and will match contributions made to Harvard Law School by their employees. To find out if your or your spouse’s company has a matching gift program, please use the University’s matching gift search engine, or contact your employer’s human resources or community relations office. If a matching gift is available, please enclose the appropriate forms with your gift. Planned Giving Planned Giving is a process of charitable, legal, financial, and tax planning that enhances your philanthropy and enables you to address other financial and estate planning issues while making a gift. Planned gifts include life income plans (pooled income funds, annuities, and remainder trusts), as well as lead trusts, bequests, real estate, tangible personal property, closely held stock, life insurance, and gifts of a remainder interest in a home. Each gift option offers various benefits. The Planned Giving Office will be happy to assist you in exploring the various options and your personal benefits. Donor-Advised and IRA Gifts Legal Name: President and Fellows of Harvard College Tax ID: 04-2103580 Contact/Questions: donorservices@law.harvard.edu This legal entity accepts donations on behalf of Harvard Law School. Please reference “Harvard Law School” and the Fund Designation in your request. If possible, please have a check mailed to: Harvard Law School – Donor Services PO Box 412840 Boston, MA 02241-2840 You may also see a default address as listed below and this is also an acceptable address. President and Fellows of Harvard College PO Box 419209 Boston, MA 02241-9209 For mail that requires a signature, such as FedEx, UPS, or DHL please use the following address: Bank Of America Lockbox Services Harvard Law School Box 412840 2 Morrissey Blvd MA5-527-02-07 Dorchester, MA 02125 Phone: 617 929-0043 *A special note on December IRA gifts: Please schedule your gift with your fund administrator instead of using a personal IRA checkbook. By going through the administrator, this will ensure donations are counted in the year you intend to give. Memorial and Honorary Gifts To give online by credit card, please visit our secure online donation page. If you wish to make a donation by check make it payable to Harvard Law School. Please note the name of the person you are recognizing and mail to: Harvard Law School – Donor Services PO Box 412840 Boston, MA 02241-2840 Should you have additional questions about giving please contact a member of our team at 617-495-3051, or email fund@law.harvard.edu. Gift Pledge If you would like to make a pledge, please contact a member of the Annual Fund Staff or email fund@law.harvard.edu. ANNUAL PLEDGE Annual pledges made to the Annual Fund are payable through June 30 of the fiscal year in which they were made. The pledge payment amount received by June 30 will be recognized in the Report of Gifts for that fiscal year. Unpaid pledges are not acknowledged in the Report of Gifts. REUNION PLEDGE Reunion pledges are payable by the end of the Reunion payment period. The full amount of the pledge is counted in the Reunion Gift total. Click here for Reunion Dates and Pledge Periods. About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.