Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial HLS Amicus Explore Resources For HLS Amicus Amicus for Students Amicus for Alumni FAQ POPULAR LINKS Log in to Amicus Provide Feedback twoup-content The Harvard Law School directory, community-building platform, and advising network featured-content You belong to an extraordinary group of Harvard leaders, lawyers, and agents of change. Accessing this network and staying connected is easier than ever with HLS Amicus, our community-building platform. Featuring directories with powerful search and messaging functions, as well as advising and mentoring opportunities, HLS Amicus is the best platform to deepen your HLS connections and forge new relationships across shared interests. Explore HLS Amicus and update your personal profile today. Log in to Amicus group-highlight Amicus for Alumni HLS Amicus serves alumni as a directory, a way to stay significantly connected to HLS, and as a channel to discover new resources for yourself and your career through the HLS community. Log in to update your profile, search for classmates and new connections, and learn more about connecting with current students. Learn more about Amicus for AlumniLearn more about Amicus for Alumni Amicus for Students HLS Amicus serves students as a directory, an advising network and mentoring tool, and a community-building platform. Amicus will help you connect with students in your current courses and those who share your interests or career aspirations. Amicus gives you access to peer, faculty, and alumni advising opportunities. It’s a terrific way to make connections and build your networks at HLS. Learn More about Amicus for StudentsLearn More about Amicus for Students Advising Topics Advising Topics Advising opportunities through HLS Amicus are comprehensive, focused on supporting law school students in every aspect of their experience. In addition to career guidance, students can reach out to peers, faculty, and alumni to discuss many topics, including: threeup-content Balancing parenthood and legal practice Career advising (both general career advising and summer job advising) Career advising for foreign legal associates Careers in academia (including clinical teaching) Careers in non-law fields Clerkship advising (U.S.) Fellowships advising Issues facing first generation attorneys Issues facing International J.D. Issues facing lawyers with disabilities Issues of gender in the legal profession Issues of race in the legal profession LGBTQ+ issues in the legal profession L.L.M. advising Managing a transnational career Navigating law school (including course selection, clinic selection, extracurriculars, and managing work load and stress) Navigating loan repayment and LIPP Pro bono work in private practice J.D. advising Transitioning between private and public sector Veterans’ issues in the legal profession Work life balance/time management in the legal profession About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.