Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Alumni Harvard Law School Reunions Harvard Law School Reunions Alumni Harvard Law School Reunions Spring Reunion 2022 Upcoming Reunions Future Reunions Past Reunions Become a Volunteer Update Your Contact Info Giving to HLS Annual Fund Reunion Giving Become a Volunteer Contact Us Planned Giving Types of Planned Gifts Donor Stories Planned Giving Newsletter Contact the Planned Giving Office Donor Recognition Societies Honoring Our Donors How to Make Your Gift International Gifts by Country Alumni News and Profiles Harvard Law School Association (HLSA) Clubs Events Networking and Careers HLS Amicus Career Services for Alumni Young Alumni Contact Us Staff Directory Visit HLS Harvard Law School Alumni Center Pound Hall1563 Massachusetts AvenueCambridge, MA02138 Make Your Gift Due to the continued impact of COVID-19, we are continuing to monitor public health advisories and school policies regarding large, in-person gatherings. At this time, future reunion plans are still under consideration. Thank you for your continued patience and understanding. We are grateful for everything our alumni continue to do in support of the School. One of the things we hear most often from Harvard Law School alumni is how proud they are of their fellow graduates. The HLS alumni network is comprised of more than 40,000 living alumni who came to Harvard Law School from different places and backgrounds, and pursued distinctive paths after graduation — forever connected by the time they spent at Harvard Law School. At the Harvard Law School Alumni Center, we know how much these friendships and connections mean to you. Our Reunions team works hard year-round to host Reunions that match your fondest HLS memories and emphasize reconnections and lifelong learning. Reunion Celebrations We hold two class-year Reunion celebrations every year: in April, we invite those alumni celebrating their 5th, 10th, 15th, 20th, 25th, or 30th Reunions, and in October, we invite all those celebrating their 35th, 40th, 45th, 50th, 55th, and 60th Reunions, as well as all the members of our Emeritus Club. We also host the following affinity celebrations: Celebration of HLS Alumnae, Celebration of Black Alumni (CBA), Celebration of Latino/a Alumni (CLA), Federalist Society Reunion, and Harvard JD/MBA Reunion. Reunion Programming For each Reunion, we strive to prepare an engaging and inspiring program of speakers, panels, and presentations. We invite alumni and faculty to share their stories and expertise on cutting-edge topics, such as cyberlaw, immigration, environment law, food law, international law, and much more. HLS Reunions also feature a conversation with Dean John Manning ’85, who gives an update on the state of the School and engages in a dialogue with alumni. Social Activities One of the most exciting parts of your Reunion is time spent with your classmates and friends, and we make sure to offer plenty of opportunities for socializing and catching up throughout Reunion weekend. We host all-class dinners on Friday evening as well as class-specific dinners and receptions on Saturday night. We invite all Reunion alumni to a keynote luncheon on Saturday and to social activities in the afternoon. Oftentimes, alumni organize additional activities to spend extra time with friends. On Sunday, we host a special brunch to honor those classmates who are no longer with us, and to celebrate the lifelong friendships and relationships made during your time at HLS. If you have any questions regarding Reunions, please don’t hesitate to contact us at reunions@law.harvard.edu. View a list of upcoming Reunions. We hope to see you at your next Reunion! About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.