Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home About Dean’s Welcome Dean’s Welcome About Dean’s Welcome About John F. Manning Dean’s Office Department Directory Dean for Administration Office of Communications Facilities Management Office Human Resources Information Technology Services History of Harvard Law School Deans of Harvard Law School HLS Bicentennial News FAQ Campus Map and Directions Accessibility Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Title IX Information Contact HLS Credit: Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard University Welcome to Harvard Law School! HLS combines genuine excellence and wonderful diversity on a scale that is unmatched anywhere. No law school has done more to shape law or legal education. The unique strength of our community is that it brings together, from around the world, so many exceptionally talented people of different backgrounds, lived experiences, interests, ambitions, approaches, methodologies, and perspectives. Whoever you are, whatever you do, however you do it, Harvard Law School is a place where you can thrive. The best lawyers, the best teachers, the best public servants, the best entrepreneurs, the best leaders are those who take opposing arguments seriously, who listen generously, and who approach others with empathy and respect. At HLS, our differences and our diversity are a source of strength that we cherish. It makes this an exciting and productive community in which to study, to teach, to write, to debate, to explore, to question, to innovate, to litigate, to advocate, and to pursue the highest ideals of law and justice. This website introduces you to the many ways you can learn, work, and grow at Harvard Law School. We have more than 425 courses. We have a large and diverse array of outstanding clinics and student practice organizations, research programs, student organizations, and student-run journals. More than 100 full time professors write and teach and practice across diverse subjects. Nowhere will you find a richer or deeper set of opportunities to explore and act on issues that matter. Our work covers an incredible range of legal and policy issues in civil rights, constitutional law, corporate governance, national security, the environment, immigration, anti-corruption, labor and employment, food safety, international trade, health policy and biotechnology, law and religion, animal rights, regulation of cyberspace, criminal justice, education, law and economics, the arts — and more. As our impressive network of alumni demonstrates through the pathbreaking work these individuals do across countless fields of endeavor, no law school better prepares lawyers, public servants, entrepreneurs, scholars, and leaders for a changing world than does Harvard Law School. I encourage you to spend some time to get to know Harvard Law School and all that it offers. All best regards, John F. Manning Morgan and Helen Chu Dean and Professor of Law Harvard Law School More from Harvard Law School Harvard Law Today News ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 ‘Do justice, Class of ’22, do justice!’ May 26, 2022 View All » Follow Us On TwitterTweets by Harvard_Law Follow Us On Instagram harvardlaw “You have got to be willing to take … risks, b Follow Us On Instagram About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.