Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Departments Office of Communications Media Relations Media Relations Office of Communications HLS Style Guides Event Planning and Publicity Planning Events at HLS Online Support News Coverage Media Relations Faculty Experts Graphic Design Photography Video and Audio Guidelines Publications Communications Office Staff Office of Communications Cambridge, MA02138Phone: 617-495-3118 Email: info@law.harvard.eduFind us on the map HLS Community Resources It is important to keep in mind that the Northeast media market is highly competitive. Only events or initiatives that are truly unique or pathbreaking will warrant coverage. There are typically dozens of interesting events at Harvard University every day, and Harvard is only one of approximately 100 colleges and universities in the greater Boston area. If you are hoping to get journalists to attend your event, try to schedule it on a weekday after 10 a.m. and before 3 p.m. Anything later than 3 p.m. begins to push up against daily newspaper and TV broadcast deadlines. A “media advisory,” not a press release, is the best thing to send to journalists prior to an event. Shorter than a press release, a media advisory provides the most basic facts: the who, what, when and where associated with your event. The Office of Communications does not have the resources to pitch individual news stories for student groups, except in unique cases involving a major campus-wide event or initiative. We will assist you by providing guidance and media contact information to meet your needs. For assistance of questions about media relations, please contact the HLS Public Information Officer. Resources for Journalists How can we help you? How can we help you? HLS Faculty Experts HLS Images Permission to Photograph or Record Audio/Video on Campus Official Comment or General Inquiries HLS Faculty Experts To request an interview with one of Harvard Law School’s faculty experts, please visit our faculty experts page. HLS Images To request professional-quality photos depicting current Harvard Law School faculty, student life, or campus buildings, from our extensive collection, please email your request to photo@law.harvard.edu; include your deadline, the type(s) of images you need, and information about where the images will be used. For historical images, please contact Historical & Special Collections at the Harvard Law School Library,  (617) 495-4550 or specialc@law.harvard.edu. Permission to Photograph or Record Audio/Video on Campus Non-Harvard Law School affiliates must receive permission from the HLS Office of Communications before taking photos or recording audio/video on campus. This allows us to alert all applicable personnel, including Campus Police and Media Services, which will help ensure a smooth experience for all involved. To request permission, journalists and other non-Harvard Law School affiliates who wish to take photos or recordings on campus should submit the HLS Campus Photography/Recording Permission Request at least 24 hours before arriving on campus. Please contact us at photo@law.harvard.edu for assistance with photography on campus, or email the Public Information Officer with questions about audio/video recording. Please note these restrictions for photography/recording on the HLS campus: Students may not be photographed or filmed for any reason without express permission from the HLS Communications Office. For audio/video recording, we require signatures on Recording License Agreements (below) from each student, staff member and faculty member being filmed or recorded. The inside of buildings may not be photographed or filmed without express permission from the HLS Communications Office. Filming the exterior of buildings is permissible, as long as there is no disruption to the campus and no students are filmed without permission. Photographers and film crews should always notify the Office of Communications in advance by submitting the HLS Campus Photography/Recording Permission Request. The HLS Communications Office reserves the right to review photographs or recorded material prior to its publication and we reserve the right to use the media for our own promotional purposes on our web site or via other channels. All photography and recordings should be completed in a timely and unobtrusive manner, without disruption to the academic environment. Recording License Agreements Please ensure that anyone who will appear on the video or audio recording submits the following form prior to the event. Signed PDF versions of this form should be returned to the HLS Office of Communications (contact information below). Recording License Agreement (web version) Recording License Agreement (PDF version) Official Comment or General Inquiries To seek official comment from the Law School, or for other general inquiries, please email the HLS Public Information Officer. Follow Us On TwitterTweets by Harvard_Law Follow Us on Facebook Follow Us on Facebook Upcoming Events Wed 01 Harvard International Office (HIO) Open Office Hours with Peter O’Meara June 1 @ 12:00 pm - 2:00 pm View More… About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.