Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Academics Explore Resources For Academics Academic Calendar 2021-2022 Degree Programs Programs of Study Curriculum Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Writing at HLS Prizes Cross-Registration Handbook of Academic Policies Fellowships Winter Term POPULAR LINKS Office of the Registrar Office of Academic Affairs Continuing and Executive Education Discover the Academic Programs at HLS Discover the Academic Programs at HLS Degree Programs Explore More » Explore More about Degree Programs J.D. Program LL.M. Program S.J.D. Program Special Programs Explore More » Explore More about Special Programs Concurrent Degrees Semester Abroad Winter Term Abroad Joint Degree Programs Explore More » Explore More about Joint Degree Programs Joint Degree Program in Law and Business Joint Degree Program in Law and Government Joint Degree in Law and Public Health Joint Program in Law and Urban Planning Writing at HLS Explore More » Explore More about Writing at HLS Writing for J.D. Students Writing for LL.M. Students Additional Writing Opportunities Writing Prizes A rich array of courses and programs A rich array of courses and programs Clinical and Pro Bono Programs A wide range of clinical courses give students the opportunity to put classroom learning to work solving real-world problems. Clinical and Pro Bono Programs A wide range of clinical courses give students the opportunity to put classroom learning to work solving real-world problems. Visit Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Visit Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Curriculum The Law School faculty has a range and depth of expertise in all fields of legal scholarship and practice, which allows the School to offer a curriculum each year of over 400 courses. Curriculum The Law School faculty has a range and depth of expertise in all fields of legal scholarship and practice, which allows the School to offer a curriculum each year of over 400 courses. Explore the Curriculum Explore the Curriculum International Legal Studies The world's broadest selection of opportunities in international and comparative law, including exchange programs with foreign law schools. International Legal Studies The world's broadest selection of opportunities in international and comparative law, including exchange programs with foreign law schools. Visit ILS Visit ILS Programs of Study Pathways to guide you through the Harvard Law School curriculum. Programs of Study Pathways to guide you through the Harvard Law School curriculum. Explore Programs of Study Explore Programs of Study Fellowships Harvard Law School offers fellowships in a wide range of intellectual fields. Fellowships Harvard Law School offers fellowships in a wide range of intellectual fields. Learn more about Fellowships Learn more about Fellowships Handbook of Academic Policies Learn more about HLS faculty, rules relating to academic studies, and legal notices and provisions. Handbook of Academic Policies Learn more about HLS faculty, rules relating to academic studies, and legal notices and provisions. Browse the Handbook Browse the Handbook Academics Home Page Academic News from HLS ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ ‘Do justice, Class of ’22, do justice!’ ‘Beware the urge to chase after other people’s dreams’ HLS Faculty News Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change Supreme Court preview: Kennedy v. Bremerton School District ‘I’d love it if poetry was required reading for law school’ Upcoming Events Wed 01 Harvard International Office (HIO) Open Office Hours with Peter O’Meara June 1 @ 12:00 pm - 2:00 pm Via Zoom View More… About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.