Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Commencement Welcome Text Harvard Law School looks forward to celebrating the Class of 2022, as well as our graduates from the Classes of 2021 and 2020! Commencement 2022 Livestream Commencement 2022 Livestream If you have to miss attending in person, the Harvard Law School Class Day and Commencement live stream will be available below: 2022 Class Day: Wednesday, May 25 at 2:30pm 2022 Commencement: Thursday, May 26 at 12:00pm 2020 and 2021 Commencement: Sunday, May 29 at 11:00am The Harvard University Commencement live stream can be accessed via the following webpage. If you have any issues accessing the livestream player above, please try viewing the ceremonies at this link. Class Links Class of 2022 Class of 2022 Information for 2022 Grads & Guests Information for 2022 Grads & Guests Class of 2021 Class of 2021 Information for 2021 Grads & Guests Information for 2021 Grads & Guests Class of 2020 Class of 2020 Information for 2020 Grads & Guests Information for 2020 Grads & Guests As long as... COVID Guidance COVID-19 Guidance During Commencement Activities We are excited to gather to celebrate our graduates, and we look forward to seeing you soon. As you prepare to come to campus, please be aware that COVID-19 transmission is rated as “high” in Boston and Cambridge. In light of this, Harvard University, in consultation with the University Coronavirus Advisory Group, has issued the following public health guidance for those attending Commencement-related events: Take a COVID test before coming to campus and every day that you have a scheduled event, even if you are not experiencing symptoms. HLS community members may continue to use Color PCR testing. Guests may utilize rapid antigen tests, which are widely available at area pharmacies. If you have symptoms, no matter how mild, we ask that you do not attend Commencement events—even if you test negative. If you test positive, please do not travel to campus or attend Commencement events. After testing positive, adhere to the 5-day home isolation guidance. For the full 10 days, follow strict masking and do not drink or dine in proximity to other people. For more information, visit the Keep Harvard Healthy website. For indoor and crowded outdoor events, we strongly encourage wearing a high-quality mask that fits securely without air gaps around your nose and mouth. If attending events that involve unmasking to eat or drink, minimize any unmasked mingling and mask up whenever you can. Thank you in advance for doing your part to keep the Harvard community and our guests, especially those who may be at a higher risk for complications if they are exposed to COVID-19, safe and healthy during this joyous occasion. We look forward to seeing you soon! About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.