Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Academics & Clinical EXPLORE ACADEMIC AND CLINICAL RESOURCES Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Register for Classes Writing Program and Prizes Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies POPULAR LINKS HELIOS Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Learning Experience and Technology (LXT) Student Dashboard Degree Programs Offered at HLS Degree Programs Offered at HLS J.D. Program The J.D. curriculum reflects legal practice in the 21st century, with courses in legislation and regulation and international and comparative law in addition to the traditional curriculum of civil procedure, contracts, criminal law, property, and torts. First-year students take a problem solving workshop in which they grapple with real-world challenges involving complex fact patterns and encompassing diverse bodies of law. More about the J.D. Program LL.M. Program The LL.M. (Master of Laws) program is a one-year degree program that typically includes 180 students from more than 70 countries. The Graduate Program is interested in attracting intellectually curious and thoughtful candidates from a variety of legal systems and backgrounds and with various career plans. More about the LL.M. Program S.J.D. Program The Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) is Harvard Law School's most advanced law degree, designed for aspiring legal academics who wish to pursue sustained independent study, research and writing. In recent years we have created a vibrant intellectual community of young scholars from around the world, most of whom will secure teaching positions in their home countries, the U.S., or third countries. More about the S.J.D. Program Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Clinical and Pro Bono Programs The Clinical Experience: Hands-On Learning Clinical and Pro Bono Programs provide diverse and innovative opportunities for students to practice law and develop skills through individualized supervision, mentoring, and modeling. The programs offer students advance access to justice locally and globally by working on real world cases and projects, and inspire students to develop a lifelong commitment to pro bono service. Clinical Program Pro Bono Program Student Practice Organizations (SPOs) Explore Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Opportunities for Students Opportunities for Students Joint JD and Master Degree Programs The Law School offers joint degree programs with Harvard Business School, Harvard Kennedy School, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, and Harvard Graduate School of Design. HLS also offers an international joint degree with the University of Cambridge Faculty of Law.Continue Reading about Joint JD and Master Degree ProgramsMore about Joint Degree Programs Semester Abroad The Semester Abroad Program is a wonderful opportunity for Harvard Law School students to receive a semester of ungraded credit towards the Harvard J.D. degree for study at a law school overseas. Studying abroad offers an experience unavailable at HLS – immersion in a foreign legal culture.Continue Reading about Semester AbroadMore about the Semester Abroad Program Programs of Study HLS encourages J.D. students to build on the foundation of the first year with focus to pursue deep knowledge and curiosity to explore a broad array of ideas about and approaches to law. Pursue your own passions, and also think about how to take advantage of opportunities for advanced work, clinical work, fellowships, and courses elsewhere in the university.Continue Reading about Programs of StudyMore about Programs of Study Fellowships Harvard Law School offers several fellowships in a wide range of disciplinary and interdisciplinary fields for students, recent graduates, and practitioners. These highly-competitive opportunities aim to stimulate intellectual growth, and advance the research agendas and training for outstanding scholars and professionals. Continue Reading about FellowshipsMore about Fellowships Cross-Registration at Harvard Law School One of the unrivaled benefits of being a student at HLS is access to courses and faculty members in the other Harvard Schools. Students may earn credits from courses taken at other Harvard schools, the Fletcher School at Tufts, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology toward their degree requirements.Continue Reading about Cross-Registration at Harvard Law SchoolMore about Cross-Registration Continuing and Executive Education Harvard Law School offers lawyers three opportunities for continuing education: Executive Education at Harvard Law School, Harvard Negotiation Institute (formerly known as Program of Instruction for Lawyers), and Negotiation and Leadership.Continue Reading about Continuing and Executive EducationMore about Continuing and Executive Education Related Departments Related Departments Office of Academic Affairs Visit OAA » Explore More about Office of Academic Affairs Office of the Registrar Visit the Registrar » Explore More about Office of the Registrar Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Visit Clinical & Pro Bono Programs » Explore More about Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Visit ILS » Explore More about International Legal Studies Academics and Clinical Dashboard Faculty Scholarship from Harvard Law Today ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ ‘Comfort is overrated’ ‘Do justice, Class of ’22, do justice!’ ‘Beware the urge to chase after other people’s dreams’ Upcoming Events at HLS Wed 01 Harvard International Office (HIO) Open Office Hours with Peter O’Meara June 1 @ 12:00 pm - 2:00 pm Via Zoom View More… Follow HLS On Instagram This error message is only visible to WordPress admins Error: There is no connected account for the user 182120985. Feed will not update. About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.