Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Faculty Profiles Annette Gordon-Reed Faculty Office of Academic Affairs Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Advanced Search scholarship by Annette Gordon-Reed Carl M. Loeb University Professor Professor of History, Faculty of Arts & Sciences Griswold 405 Assistant: Matthew Nicola / (617) 495-7653 About Publications Courses Biography Annette Gordon-Reed is the Carl M. Loeb University Professor at Harvard. Gordon-Reed won sixteen book prizes, including the Pulitzer Prize in History in 2009 and the National Book Award in 2008, for The Hemingses of Monticello: An American Family (W.W. Norton, 2008). In addition to articles and reviews, her other works include Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings: An American Controversy (UVA Press, 1997), Vernon Can Read! A Memoir, a collaboration with Vernon Jordan (PublicAffairs, 2001), Race on Trial: Law and Justice in American History (Oxford University Press, 2002), a volume of essays that she edited, Andrew Johnson (Times Books/Henry Holt, 2010) and, with Peter S. Onuf, “Most Blessed of the Patriarchs”: Thomas Jefferson and the Empire of the Imagination (Liveright Publishing, 2016). Her most recent book is On Juneteenth (Liveright Publishing, 2021). Gordon-Reed was the Vyvyan Harmsworth Visiting Professor of American History at the University of Oxford (Queens College) 2014-2015. Between 2010 and 2015, she was the Carol K. Pforzheimer Professor at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University. She was the 2018-2019 President of the Society for Historians of the Early American Republic. She is the current President of the Ames Foundation. A selected list of her honors includes a fellowship from the Dorothy and Lewis B. Cullman Center for Scholars and Writers at the New York Public Library, a Guggenheim Fellowship in the humanities, a MacArthur Fellowship, the National Humanities Medal, the National Book Award, the Frederick Douglass Book Prize, the George Washington Book Prize, and the Anisfield-Wolf Book Award. Gordon-Reed served as a member of the Board of Trustees of Dartmouth College from 2010 to 2018. She was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2011 and was a member of the Academy’s Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences. In 2019, she was elected as a member of the American Philosophical Society. Areas of Interest Legal History: American Slavery and Law Legal History: American Legal History Criminal Law and Procedure Legal Profession Legal History: Law, Politics, and Culture in the Early American Republic Displaying X-Y of 55 results 25/page 50/page 100/page   (Page X of Y) Annette Gordon-Reed & Peter S. Onuf, "Most Blessed of the Patriarchs": Thomas Jefferson and the Empire of the Imagination (W.W. Norton & Co. 2016). Categories: Legal Profession , Constitutional Law , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Constitutional History , Legal Theory & Philosophy , Legal History , Biography & Tribute Links:  Type: Book Abstract Tracing Jefferson's philosophical development from youth to old age, the authors explore what they call the "empire" of Jefferson's imagination—an expansive state of mind born of his origins in a slave society, his intellectual influences, and the vaulting ambition that propelled him into public life as a modern avatar of the Enlightenment who, at the same time, likened himself to a figure of old—"the most blessed of the patriarchs." Indeed, Jefferson saw himself as a "patriarch," not just to his country and mountain-like home at Monticello but also to his family, the white half that he loved so publicly, as well as to the black side that he claimed to love, a contradiction of extraordinary historical magnitude. Divided into three sections, "Most Blessed of the Patriarchs" reveals a striking personal dimension to his life. Part I, "Patriarch," explores Jeffersons's origins in Virgina; Part II, " 'Traveller,' " covers his five-year sojourn to Paris; and Part III, "Enthusiast," delves insightfully into the Virginian's views on Christianity, slavery, and race. We see not just his ideas and vision of America but come to know him in an almost familial way, such as through the importance of music in his life. Annette Gordon-Reed, Andrew Johnson (The American Presidents Series: The 17th President, 1865-1869, Times Books 2011). Categories: Legal Profession , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Executive Office , Legal History Links:  Type: Book Abstract A Pulitzer Prize-winning historian recounts the tale of the unwanted president who ran afoul of Congress over Reconstruction and was nearly removed from office Andrew Johnson never expected to be president. Race on Trial: Law and Justice in American History (Annette Gordon-Reed ed., Oxford Univ. Press 2002). Categories: Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Legal History Links:  Type: Book Abstract Some of the cases discussed include Amistad, Dred Scott, Plessy v. Ferguson, Scottsboro, Korematsu v. US, Brown v. Board, Loving v. Virginia, Regents v. Bakke, and OJ Simpson. Annette Gordon-Reed, Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings: An American Controversy (Univ. Press of Va. 1997). Categories: Government & Politics , Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Executive Office , Legal History Links:  Type: Book Abstract Presents first-hand accounts, memoirs, letters, and recent DNA evidence that points to Thomas Jefferson's thirty-eight-year affair with his slave Sally Hemings, and refutes claims to the contrary. Annette Gordon-Reed, Writing About the Past That Made Us: Scholars, Civic Culture, and the American Present and Future, 131 Yale L. J. 782 (2022) (reviewing Akhil Reed Amar, The Words That Made Us: America's Constitutional Conversation (2021)). Categories: Constitutional Law , Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Constitutional History , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Abstract In The Words That Made Us: America’s Constitutional Conversation, 1760-1840, Akhil Reed Amar writes of the parlous state of democracy in the United States. He argues that our problems are due, in part, to citizens’ failure to understand their responsibilities. The quality of our “constitutional conversation,” in which we talk about the nature of our government and our aspirations for it, is extremely poor. This is, in large measure, due to scholars’—historians’ and law professors’—unwillingness to create a “usable past” that would help Americans understand their duties to the country and to one another. He sees his book as a means of starting an enriched “constitutional conversion.” Along with his diagnosis of American malaise, Amar presents his own version of the origins of the Revolution (winding the clock back to 1760, before the more traditional starting period of 1763-1765), discusses the politically volatile 1790s, and creates portraits of the most well-known figures of that period. Amar’s presentation should start a vivid conversation about the nature of American civic life, past and present. Annette Gordon-Reed, The Color Line, N.Y. Rev. Books, Aug. 19, 2021, at 26 (reviewing W.E.B. Du Bois’s Data Portraits: Visualizing Black America: The Color Line at the Turn of the Twentieth Century (Whitney Battle-Baptiste & Britt Rusert eds., 2018), Black Lives 1900: W.E.B. Du Bois at the Paris Exposition (Julian Rothenstein ed., 2019), Michael Friendly & Howard Wainer, A History of Data Visualization and Graphic Communication (2021)) Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity Links:  Type: Article Abstract Gordon-Reed reviews several books on Blacks history, including, W. E. B. Du Bois’s Data Portraits: Visualizing Black America: The Color Line at the Turn of the Twentieth Century edited by Whitney Baule-Baptiste and Brilt Rusert, Black Lives 1900: W.E.B. Du Boisat the Paris reposition edited by Julian Rothenstein, with an introduction by Jacqueline Francis and Stephen G. Hall, and A History of Data Visualization and Graphic Communication by Michael Friendly and Howard Wainer. Annette Gordon-Reed, Black America’s Neglected Origin Stories, Atlantic, (May 4, 2021) Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity Links:  Type: Article Abstract Gordon-Reed explains that the story of Africans on this continent is longer and more varied than the version taught in school. The two origin stories that American children are most often taught are those of Jamestown VA, an English colony founded in 1607 as a moneymaking venture, and Plymouth MA, where people escaped religious persecution in 1620. The latter narrative is more inspirational and more in keeping with Americas sense of moral exceptionalism than the former, which is perhaps why it has tended to loom larger in the American mind. Both origin stories emphasize the triumph of amity over enmity between Indigenous people and English settlers, something very different from what actually happened. But Black people are absent in the story of Plymouth, and the role of Jamestown as a hub of chattel slavery is often minimized. For Black Americans, neither origin story is sufficient. Annette Gordon-Reed, Estebanico’s America, The Atlantic (June 2021). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity Links:  Type: Article Abstract The article looks at the story of Africans in North America which is longer and more varied that the version most people were taught in school. Topics discussed include the story of former slave and Moroccan explorer Estebanico, the role played by the Black people who came to the Americas with the Spanish in exploring Mexico, Central America and South America, and the reality of Black history of American history. Annette Gordon-Reed, Thomas Jefferson: A Modern Prometheus, 106 J. Afr. Am. Hist. (2021) (book review). Categories: Government & Politics Links:   Type: Article Abstract Thomas Jefferson: A Modern Prometheus by Wilson Jeremiah Moses is reviewed. Annette Gordon-Reed, On Juneteenth (2021). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Discrimination , Race & Ethnicity , Legal History Links:  Type: Book Abstract Interweaving American history, dramatic family chronicle, and searing episodes of memoir, Annette Gordon-Reed, the descendant of enslaved people brought to Texas in the 1850s, recounts the origins of Juneteenth and explores the legacies of the holiday that remain with us. From the earliest presence of black people in Texas—in the 1500s, well before enslaved Africans arrived in Jamestown—to the day in Galveston on June 19, 1865, when General Gordon Granger announced the end of slavery, Gordon-Reed’s insightful and inspiring essays present the saga of a “frontier” peopled by Native Americans, Anglos, Tejanos, and Blacks that became a slaveholder’s republic. Reworking the “Alamo” framework, Gordon-Reed shows that the slave-and race-based economy not only defined this fractious era of Texas independence, but precipitated the Mexican-American War and the resulting Civil War. A commemoration of Juneteenth and the fraught legacies of slavery that still persist, On Juneteenth is stark reminder that the fight for equality is ongoing. Annette Gordon-Reed & Peter S. Onuf, The Nation-State in a Changing World: Epilogue, 78 Wm. & Mary Q. 275 (2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Links:   Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, Sally Hemings: Writing the Life of an Enslaved Woman, in The Routledge Companion to Black Women’s Cultural Histories (Janelle Hobson, ed., 2021) Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Gender & Sexuality , Race & Ethnicity , Legal History , Biography & Tribute Links:  Type: Book Annette Gordon-Reed, Critiquing the Family Tree: White Supremacy in the Writing of History, in Carving out a Humanity: Race, Rights, and Redemption (Janet Dewart Bell & Vincent M. Southerland eds., 2020). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Legal History , Biography & Tribute Links:  Type: Book Annette Gordon-Reed, Rebellious History, 67 N.Y. Rev. Books, Oct. 22, 2020, at 4 (reviewing Saidiya Hartman, Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments: Intimate Histories of Riotous Black Girls, Troublesome Women, and Queer Radicals (2019)). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Gender & Sexuality , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, Book Review, 40 J. Early Republic 564 (2020) (reviewing Jonathan Gienapp, The Second Creation: Fixing the American Constitution in the Founding Era (2018)). Categories: Constitutional Law Sub-Categories: Constitutional History Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, Foreword to Racism in America: A Reader, at xvii (2020). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Discrimination Links:  Type: Book Abstract Racism in America has been the subject of serious scholarship for decades. At Harvard University Press, we’ve had the honor of publishing some of the most influential books on the subject. Annette Gordon-Reed, Afterword to In the Hands of the People: Thomas Jefferson on Equality, Faith, Freedom, Compromise, and the Art of Citizenship (Jon Meacham ed., 2020). Categories: Government & Politics , Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Executive Office , Legal History Links:  Type: Book Abstract "Thomas Jefferson believed in the covenant between a government and its citizens, in both the government’s responsibilities to its people and also the people’s responsibility to the republic. In this illuminating book, a project of the Thomas Jefferson Foundation at Monticello, the #1 New York Times bestselling author Jon Meacham presents selections from Jefferson’s writing on the subject, with an afterword by Pulitzer Prize–winning historian Annette Gordon-Reed and comments on Jefferson’s ideas from others, including Colin Powell, Madeleine Albright, Frederick Douglass, Carl Sagan, and American presidents. This curated collection revitalizes how to see an individual’s role in the world, as it explores such Jeffersonian concepts as religious freedom, the importance of a free press, public education, participation in government, and others. Meacham writes, “In an hour of twenty-first-century division and partisanship, of declining trust in institutions and of widespread skepticism about the long-term viability of the American experiment, it is instructive to return to first principles. Not, to be sure, as an exercise in nostalgia or as a flight from the reality of our own time, but as an honest effort to see, as Jefferson wrote, what history may be able to tell us about the present and the future.” -- Random House Annette Gordon-Reed, The Problem of Police Powers for People Living While Black, NYR Daily (June 13, 2020). Categories: Criminal Law & Procedure , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Criminal Justice & Law Enforcement , Discrimination , Race & Ethnicity Links:  Type: Other Annette Gordon-Reed, Message for the World: The Idea of Hope in the Wake of the Global Protests Against Racism, TLS, June 26, 2020, at 18. Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Civil Rights , Discrimination , Law & Social Change Links:  Type: News Annette Gordon-Reed, Preparing to Move On in a Time of Losses, Wall St. J., May 2, 2020. Categories: Legal Profession , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Legal Education Links:  Type: News Annette Gordon-Reed, Righting Wrongs: What Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr. Had in Common, N.Y. Times, April 26, 2020, at BR10 (reviewing Peniel E. Joseph, The Sword and the Shield, The Revolutionary Lives of Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr. (2020)). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Civil Rights , Discrimination , Race & Ethnicity Links:  Type: News Annette Gordon-Reed, Thomas Jefferson's Revolutionary Words, Time, Mar. 2, 2020, at 46. Categories: Government & Politics , Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights , Constitutional Law Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Executive Office , Legal History , Biography & Tribute Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, "Take Care of Me When Dead": Jefferson Legacies, 40 J. Early Republic 1 (2020). Categories: Government & Politics , Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Executive Office , Politics & Political Theory , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, What Jefferson Couldn't Teach, Atlantic, Dec. 2019, at 120 (reviewing Alan Taylor, Thomas Jefferson's Education (2019)). Categories: Government & Politics , Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Executive Office , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, The Real Texas, N.Y. Rev. Books, Oct. 24, 2019, at 20 (reviewing Larry McMurty, In a Narrow Grave: Essays on Texas (1968), Lawrence Wright, God Save Texas: A Journey into the Soul of the Lone Star State (2018), Monica Muñoz Martinez, The Injustice Never Leaves You: Anti-Mexican Violence in Texas (2018), Stephen Harrigan, Big Wonderful Thing: A History of Texas (2019) & Lucas A. Powe, Jr., America’s Lone Star Constitution: How Supreme Court Cases from Texas Shape the Nation (2018)). Categories: Government & Politics , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Discrimination , Race & Ethnicity , State & Local Government Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, "That Woman" Fawn Brodie and Thomas Jefferson's Intimate History, in Thomas Jefferson's Lives: Biographers and the Battle for History 265 (Robert M.S. McDonald, ed., 2019). Categories: Legal Profession , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Executive Office , Biography & Tribute , Legal History Links:  Type: Book Annette Gordon-Reed, Foreword, in Robert D. Jacobus, Black Man in the Huddle: Stories from the Integration of Texas Football (Texas A&M Univ. Press, 2019). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Gaming & Sports Law Type: Book Annette Gordon-Reed, MLK: What We Lost, N.Y. Rev. Books, Nov. 8, 2018, at 48 (reviewing Michael K. Honey, To the Promised Land: Martin Luther King and the Fight for Economic Justice (2018), Joseph Rosenbloom, Redemption: Martin Luther King Jr.’s Last 31 Hours (2018), Jason Sokol, The Heavens Might Crack: The Death and Legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. (2018), Patrick Parr, The Seminarian: Martin Luther King Jr. Comes of Age (2018) & Tommie Shelby & Brandon M. Terry, To Shape a New World: Essays on the Political Philosophy of Martin Luther King, Jr. (2018). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Civil Rights , Race & Ethnicity Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, Might vs. Right: The Development of the Eurocentric ‘Law of Nations’, Times Literary Supplement, Sept. 28, 2018, at 12 (reviewing Jennifer Pitts, Boundaries of the International: Law and Empire (2018)). Categories: Legal Profession , International, Foreign & Comparative Law , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Political Theory , European Law , Foreign Relations , International Law , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, Opinion, At Long Last, Sally Hemings in the Spotlight, N.Y. Times, June 16, 2018, at A23. Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Discrimination , Race & Ethnicity , Executive Office Links:  Type: News Annette Gordon-Reed, Female Trouble, N.Y. Rev. Books, Feb. 8, 2018, at 12 (reviewing Hillary Rodham Clinton, What Happened (2018)). Categories: Government & Politics , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Gender & Sexuality , Elections & Voting , Executive Office , Politics & Political Theory Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, America’s Original Sin: Slavery and the Legacy of White Supremacy, Foreign Aff., Jan. 1, 2018, at 2. Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Constitutional Law Sub-Categories: Constitutional History , Discrimination , Race & Ethnicity Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, Hot Ticket: The Biggest Show in Washington 150 Years Ago was President Andrew Johnson's Impeachment Hearings, Smithsonian, Jan. 2018, at 22. Categories: Government & Politics , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Executive Office , Politics & Political Theory Links:  Type: Article Abstract The article examines U.S. President Andrew Johnson's impeachment hearings in 1868. It describes the impeachment proceedings initiated by the House of Representatives and the Senate against Johnson for violating the Tenure of Office Act and other offenses. It also discusses the actions taken by Johnson that indicated his hatred for African Americans and the political and social impact of his impeachment. Annette Gordon-Reed, Sally Hemings, Thomas Jefferson and the Ways We Talk About Our Past, N.Y. Times Book Rev., Sept. 24, 2017, at 20. Categories: Government & Politics , Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Executive Office , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, Our Trouble with Sex: A Christian Story?, N.Y. Rev. Books, Aug. 17, 2017, at 33 (reviewing Geoffrey R. Stone, Sex and the Constitution: Sex, Religion, and Law from America’s Origins to the Twenty-First Century (2017)). Categories: Constitutional Law , Discrimination & Civil Rights , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Constitutional History , Religion , LGBTQ Rights Law , Discrimination , Gender & Sexuality , Religion & Law Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed & Peter S. Onuf, Thomas Jefferson’s Bible Teaching, N.Y. Times, July 4, 2017, at A21. Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics , Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Religion & Law , Executive Office , Legal History Type: News Abstract The article focuses on bible teaching of former U.S. President Thomas Jefferson according to which faith that no government should interfere in anyone's private religious belief and mentions how educating citizen to avoid violent disagreement over trivial doctrinal distinction could ensure peace. Annette Gordon-Reed, The Captive Aliens Who Remain Our Shame, N.Y. Rev. Books, Jan. 19, 2017, at 54 (reviewing Robert Parkinson, The Common Cause: Creating Race and Nation in the American Revolution (2016)). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Constitutional Law Sub-Categories: Constitutional History , Race & Ethnicity Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, Legacy. What is a legacy?, 66 Hist. Today, Nov. 2016, at 4. Categories: Legal Profession , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Humanities , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, A Different View on Harvard Law’s Shield, Time, Mar. 15, 2016, at 56. Categories: Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Civil Rights , Discrimination , Legal History , Legal Education Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, Redemption Songs: Suing for Freedom Before Dred Scott, 102 J. Am. Hist. 1189 (2016). Categories: Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Abstract On his tour through the United States in the 1830s Alexis de Tocqueville noted Americans' intense attachment to law. In their daily lives they used precepts, and styles of argumentation and decision-making that came directly from the legal system. It is no surprise, then, that enslaved people in the United States, as American as the people who claimed ownership over them, would also have law on their minds. In truth, they had every reason to think about it because law created and sustained the country's racially based slave system. Annette Gordon-Reed, First Couple, N.Y. Times Book Rev., Dec. 6, 2015, at 36)(reviewing Flora Fraser, The Washingtons: George and Martha, “Join’d by Friendship, Crown’d by Love” (Alfred A. Knopf 2015)). Categories: Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Legal History , Biography & Tribute Links:  Type: News Annette Gordon-Reed, Writing Early American Lives as Biography, 71 Wm. & Mary Q. 491 (2014). Categories: Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Legal History , Legal Research & Writing Links:  Type: Article Abstract This essay is a meditation on the role that biography can play in shaping our understanding of early American history. It grew out of a WMQ-EMSI workshop, “Early American Biographies,” convened at the Huntington Library in 2012. Workshop participants presented papers discussing lives from a broad cross section of North American society from the late seventeenth century to the early part of the nineteenth century. Gordon-Reed's essay discusses the mechanics of writing the biographies of obscure figures, gives a brief history of modern biography, and addresses criticism of biography as a form of history writing. Annette Gordon-Reed, Man of the World, Am. Scholar, Summer 2014, at 103 (reviewing Fred Kaplan, John Quincy Adams: American Visionary (HarperCollins 2014)). Categories: Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Biography & Tribute Links:  Type: Article Peter S. Onuf & Annette Gordon-Reed, Jefferson's Spaces, 48 Early Am. Literature 755 (2013) (reviewing Peter Hatch, "A Rich Spot of Earth": Thomas Jefferson's Revolutionary Garden at Monticello (Yale Univ. Press 2012), Kevin J. Hayes, Jefferson in His Own Time: A Biographical Chronicle of His Life, Drawn from Recollections, Interviews and Memoirs by Family, Friends, and Associates (Univ. Iowa Press 2012) & Cynthia A. Kierner, Martha Jefferson Randolph, Daughter of Monticello (Univ. N.C. Press 2012)). Categories: Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Biography & Tribute , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, Reading White over Black, 69 Wm. & Mary Q. 853 (2012)(reviewing Winthrop D. Jordan, White over Black: American Attitudes toward the Negro, 1550-1812, 2nd ed. (2012)). Categories: Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Peter S. Onuf & Annette Gordon-Reed, Introduction to Lucia C. Stanton, "Those Who Labor for My Happiness": Slavery at Thomas Jefferson's Monticello at vii (Univ. Va. Press 2012). Categories: Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Legal History Links:  Type: Book Abstract This volume represents the first attempt to pull together Stanton’s most important writings on slavery at Monticello and beyond. Stanton’s pioneering work deepened our understanding of Jefferson without demonizing him. Annette Gordon-Reed, Foreword to Elizabeth Dowling Taylor, A Slave in the White House: Paul Jennings and the Madisons at xv (St. Martin's Press 2012). Categories: Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Legal History Links:  Type: Book Abstract Chronicles the life of a former slave to James and Dolley Madison, tracing his early years on their plantation, his service in the White House household staff and post-emancipation achievements as a memoirist. Annette Gordon-Reed, Focusing on Slaves as Well as on Slavery, 47 Early Am. Literature 451 (2012). Categories: Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Annette Gordon-Reed, The Persuader: What Harriet Beecher Stowe Wrought, The New Yorker, June 13, 2011, at 120 (reviewing David S. Reynolds, Mightier Than the Sword: Uncle Tom's Cabin and the Battle for America (2011)). Categories: Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Religion & Law , Law & Political Theory , Law & Social Change , Biography & Tribute , Legal History Links:  Type: Article Abstract A review of the book "Mightier Than the Sword: Uncle Tom's Cabin and the Battle for America," by David S. Reynolds. Annette Gordon-Reed, History and Memory: A Critique of the Foote Vision, in American Homer: Reflections on Shelby Foote and his Classic the Civil War: A Narrative 60 (Jon Meachem ed., Modern Library 2011) (companion volume to Shelby Foote, The Civil War Trilogy Box Set (Modern Library 2011)). Categories: Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Biography & Tribute , Legal History Type: Book Abstract Four years later, Lincoln’s second inaugural sets the seal, invoking “charity for all” on the Eve of Five Forks and the Grant-Lee race for Appomattox. Here is the dust and stench of war, a sort of Twilight of the Gods. Annette Gordon-Reed, The Phenomenon: W.E.B. Dubois, in Profiles in Leadership: Historians on the Elusive Quality of Greatness 149 (Walter Isaacson ed., W.W. Norton & Co. 2010). Categories: Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Biography & Tribute Links:  Type: Book Abstract A collection of essays reflecting on the enduring ingredients of leadership. Annette Gordon-Reed, The Hemingses of Monticello: An American Family (W.W. Norton & Co. 2009). Categories: Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Legal History Links:  Type: Book Abstract This epic work—named a best book of the year by the Washington Post, Time, the Los Angeles Times, Amazon, the San Francisco Chronicle, and a notable book by the New York Times—tells the story of the Hemingses, whose close blood ties to our third president had been systematically expunged from American history until very recently. Now, historian and legal scholar Annette Gordon-Reed traces the Hemings family from its origins in Virginia in the 1700s to the family’s dispersal after Jefferson’s death in 1826. Annette Gordon-Reed, The Resonance of Minds: Thomas Jefferson and James Madison in the Republic of Letters, in The Cambridge Companion to Thomas Jefferson (Frank Shuffelton ed., Cambridge Univ. Press 2009). Categories: Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Legal History Links:    Type: Book Abstract It has been called “the Great Collaboration”; the long-term political partnership, professional relationship, and deep friendship of Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, two American statesmen who, together and apart, played pivotal roles in the formation of the American nation. The connection of these two Virginians calls to mind the description of two other famous collaborators in an entirely different field, and from another era: James Watson and Francis Crick, who first described the structure and workings of DNA. A person who knew and observed this celebrated pair said that their partnership was driven by a “resonance between two minds - that high state in which 1 plus 1 does not equal 2 but more like ten.” Like Jefferson and Madison, Watson and Crick were men of different temperaments who were, nevertheless, united by their single-minded devotion to their respective goals. However one weighs the relative merits of the contributions of these partnerships - two scientists discovering the building blocks of life versus two politicians/philosophers laying down the groundwork for a new nation - there is no question that a special alchemy was created by both combinations of minds, a catalyst that spurred each individual to greater intellectual strivings than they would have had without the other member of their pair. The conditions, however, had to be right. One cannot discount the importance of being the right people in the right place at the right time. Watson and Crick were perfectly situated and suited to take advantage of the scientific advances and theories that laid the groundwork for their eventual triumph, having come of age during the post-Second World War era of scientific inquiry and technological innovation. Annette Gordon-Reed, Celia's Case (1857), in Race on Trial: Law and Justice in American History 48 (Annette Gordon-Reed ed., Oxford Univ. Press 2002). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Legal Profession , Property Law Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Discrimination , Legal History Links:  Type: Book Vernon E. Jordan, Jr. & Annette Gordon-Reed, Vernon Can Read!: A Memoir (Pub. Aff. 2001). Categories: Legal Profession , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Race & Ethnicity , Civil Rights , Biography & Tribute Links:  Type: Book  Remove All Filters Publication Years: 2022 (1) 2021 (7) 2020 (11) 2019 (4) 2018 (6) 2017 (4) 2016 (4) 2015 (1) 2014 (2) 2013 (1) 2012 (4) 2011 (3) 2010 (1) 2009 (2) 2002 (2) 2001 (1) 1997 (1) See more See fewer Categories: Constitutional Law (7) Criminal Law & Procedure (1) Disciplinary Perspectives & Law (11) Discrimination & Civil Rights (33) Government & Politics (14) International, Foreign & Comparative Law (1) Legal Profession (36) Property Law (1) Displaying X-Y of 55 results 25/page 50/page 100/page   (Page X of Y) Current Courses American Legal History 1776-1865, Fall 2021 Constitutions, Law, and Empire, Spring 2022 Legal Profession, Spring 2022 Course Catalog View View full size image Griswold 405 Assistant: Matthew Nicola / (617) 495-7653 About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.