Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Alumni Giving to HLS Planned Giving Planned Giving Alumni Harvard Law School Reunions Spring Reunion 2022 Upcoming Reunions Future Reunions Past Reunions Become a Volunteer Update Your Contact Info Giving to HLS Annual Fund Reunion Giving Become a Volunteer Contact Us Planned Giving Types of Planned Gifts Donor Stories Planned Giving Newsletter Contact the Planned Giving Office Donor Recognition Societies Honoring Our Donors How to Make Your Gift International Gifts by Country Alumni News and Profiles Harvard Law School Association (HLSA) Clubs Events Networking and Careers HLS Amicus Career Services for Alumni Young Alumni Contact Us Staff Directory Visit HLS Harvard Law School Alumni Center Pound Hall1563 Massachusetts AvenueCambridge, MA02138 Make Your Gift Thomas M. Lamberti ’57 and his wife, Eileen “Planned giving is our opportunity to give the next generation the same outstanding legal education we had.” -Thomas M. Lamberti ’57 At Harvard Law School, supporting the core needs of our vibrant educational community and providing our students with crucial financial aid are priorities of the highest order. As part of our commitment to these needs, we are pleased to offer planned giving opportunities at HLS that benefit both the Law School and the donor. What is Planned Giving? Planned giving is a type of giving that can allow you to make a significant gift to Harvard Law School while also addressing some of your own financial and estate planning needs by way of tax planning. Types of planned gifts include: Securities and Mutual funds that may reduce your capital gains taxes. Life income gifts, such as charitable gift annuities and charitable remainder trusts, that pay you an income during your lifetime while generating a current income tax deduction. Testamentary gifts that preserve access to principal while enabling you to make a lasting gift to Harvard Law School. Gifts from retirement plan assets that can reduce your income tax and the taxes your heirs may eventually have to pay. Charitable lead trusts that pay an annual amount to Harvard Law School and then distribute to heirs at a reduced transfer tax cost. A well planned gift will create advantageous tax and income benefits for you and your heirs, and leave a lasting legacy for the Harvard Law School community new and old. What Does Planned Giving Support? The Annual Fund, which utilizes unrestricted gifts for broad and immediate impact, allowing the Dean to swiftly address the community’s highest priorities. Scholarship funds that enable the Law School to enroll students regardless of financial ability and to create generations of leaders in public and private practice. Clinical chairs and professorships that help HLS attract faculty who are leaders in their fields. Unrestricted funds that allow Harvard Law School to address emerging topics in the legal profession and prepare students for real-world issues. For questions or requests for more information, please contact Charlie Gordy at (617) 496-9265 (direct) or cgordy@law.harvard.edu. About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.