Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Explore Resources For Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Clinic Talks & Clinics at a Glance Clinical Program Clinical Registration Center Pro Bono Program International J.D. Student Information Meet the Clinical Faculty Student Forms For Attorneys & Supervisors Blog Contact Us POPULAR LINKS Clinical Staff Resource Center COVID-19 Engagement at HLS OCP Clinical Calendar 2021-22 Schedule an Advising Appointment Helios Clinical and Pro Bono Programs 3085 Wasserstein Hall (WCC)6 Everett StreetCambridge, MA02138Phone: 617-495-5202Fax: 617-496-2636Email: clinical@law.harvard.edu featured-content 2022 Commencement Newsletter Every year, the Office of Clinical and Pro Bono Programs’ Commencement Newsletter celebrates the achievements of graduating students and their clinical and pro bono experiences with a collection of student reflections, stories, and awards. View the newsletter! Key Resources Key Resources For Students For Clinical Faculty and Staff For Outside Organizations For Alumni For Students Schedule an Advising Appointment Clinical Calendar 2021-22 Clinical Policies & FAQ HLS Pro Bono Graduation Requirement FAQ Clinic & SPO IT Resources Read Placement Evaluations Pro Bono and School-Year Internship Opportunities for HLS Students Ethics Tutorial Accessibility Resources Student Legal Opportunities Student Contacts For Clinical Faculty and Staff Clinical Staff Resource Center Resources for Remote Clinical Teaching and Work For Outside Organizations How to get Involved Supervising Students Access Forms For Alumni Alumni Access – Public Service Summary New York Bar Pro Bono Admission Requirement For Attorneys and Supervisors Clinical & Pro Bono Programs Clinical & Pro Bono Programs In-House Clinics Hands-On Learning In-House Clinics Hands-On Learning There are 23 In-house clinics taught by 19 Clinical Professors of Law and more than 70 Clinical Instructors and Lecturers on Law. Each clinic is tied to a classroom component, in which clinical experiences supplement and contribute to further discussion. Explore the Clinics Explore the Clinics Externship Clinics Hundreds of placements Externship Clinics Hundreds of placements There are 15 Externships taught by faculty and experienced attorneys who are experts in their field. Students are placed at government agencies and organizations across the U.S. and supplement that experience through a required course component. Explore the Clinics Explore the Clinics COVID-19 Engagement at HLS OCP Support your community COVID-19 Engagement at HLS OCP Support your community Connect to Resources Connect to Resources Independent Clinical Program Set up your own clinical placement Independent Clinical Program Set up your own clinical placement The Independent Clinical Program is designed to provide students an opportunity to be entrepreneurial and design a custom placement - in U.S. and abroad - that will meet their individualized learning goals. Explore the Program Explore the Program Advanced Clinical Program Continue your clinical work into a new semester Advanced Clinical Program Continue your clinical work into a new semester With approval of the clinic, the Advanced Clinical Program allows a student to continue their clinical work into subsequent semesters and across academic years. Explore the Program Explore the Program Student Practice Organizations Gain practical legal experience for pro bono credit Student Practice Organizations Gain practical legal experience for pro bono credit While students do not receive academic credit for participating in SPOs, their hours can count towards the 50-hour pro bono graduation requirement starting first day of classes, 1L year. Explore the SPOs Explore the SPOs Clinical Spotlight Clinical Spotlight Dealing in Justice: System-Level Solutions for Plea Bargaining Inefficiencies in Massachusetts Municipal and District Courts June 1, 2022 Via HNMCP BlogBy Stephanie Kelemen, J.D. ’22 Plea bargains are like medications with bad side effects—extraordinarily painful to take, but they get the job done. In some cases, the pain outweighs the benefit of the treatment. But in the vast majority of cases—97 percent to be precise—criminal defendants take their medicine. And it hurts every […] Dealing in Justice: System-Level Solutions for Plea Bargaining Inefficiencies in Massachusetts Municipal and District Courts ‘A front row seat to history’ in the Semester in Washington Clinic June 1, 2022 By Catherine Katz, J.D. ’23 [The views expressed are the author’s own and are not necessarily those of the U.S. government.] This spring, I participated in the Semester in Washington Clinical Program with a placement at the State Department in the Office of the Legal Adviser—also known as “L”. I was excited to learn about […] ‘A front row seat to history’ in the Semester in Washington Clinic LSC students, attorneys help 200+ Native Alaskans get much-need tax assistance June 1, 2022 Via LSC Blog The tax issues faced by Native Alaskan tribal members are unusually complex. Those complexities stem not only from the area’s chief economic driver – fishing – but also from how tribes are governed, and the multigenerational family structure of Native Alaskans in rural Alaska. This spring, LSC Tax Clinic 3L students Lydia […] LSC students, attorneys help 200+ Native Alaskans get much-need tax assistance Supreme Court rules unanimously in favor of Tax Clinic position June 1, 2022 Via LSC Blog Although the Supreme Court has been sharply divided on a host of issues this term, it ruled unanimously this spring in Boechler P.C. v. Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. That ruling affirmed a position LSC’s Tax Clinic and its students have fought for over many years – and reversed lower court rulings […] Supreme Court rules unanimously in favor of Tax Clinic position More Reflections on HIRC from the Class of 2022 May 26, 2022 Joining the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau (HLAB) as a Transfer Student May 26, 2022 Perspectives from the Criminal Justice Institute May 25, 2022 Who are you, ’22? May 24, 2022 A commitment to the truth May 24, 2022 Brianna Banks ’22 named winner of Stuntz Award May 20, 2022 View All image-gallery Student Life in the Clinical and Pro Bono Programs View Gallery Group photo of students who traveled to Puerto Rico over spring break to provide legal and humanitarian assistance in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria. Read Caption During winter term 2018, over a hundred students have traveled to 62 cities across the world to pursue clinical projects with governmental agencies, legal services organizations, non-profit organizations and the judiciary. Read Caption Niku Jafarnia ’19 spent Winter Term in Amman, Jordan, undertaking an independent clinical with the International Refugee Assistance Project. Read Caption "This opportunity has opened my eyes to an entirely different setting where effective lawyering happens. I am still unsure about my career path, but this J-term has certainly piqued my interest in a career as a defense lawyer." - Cameron Pritchett, J.D. ’18 Read Caption Jon Chase/Harvard Staff Photographer Julian Spearchief Morris, the first Native American president of the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau. Read Caption Credit: Danny Gold Soon after the executive order restricting immigration was handed down, groups of lawyers gathered in airports nationwide to provide ad hoc assistance and advocacy to those affected by the travel ban. At John F. Kennedy International Airport, Russell Kornblith ’12 (center) worked with the International Refugee Assistance Project on behalf of individuals who were denied entry into the United States. See New York Times: “Lawyers Mobilize at Nation’s Airports After Trump’s Order.” Read Caption Credit: Daniel Cima/IACHR (via Flickr) Jin Kim '18 (right), a student with the Harvard Immigration and Refugee Clinic, testified at a special hearing of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights on March 21, 2017, alongside fellow HIRC member, Malene Alleyne LL.M. '17 (left). Read Caption Photo by Ralf Schlesenger Two Harvard Law clinicians and four students took part in negotiating the treaty banning nuclear weapons as partners of the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, which recently received the Nobel Peace Prize. Read Caption Left to right – Claire Horan JD 18, Alicia Daniel JD 18, and Justice Kimberly S. Budd at the Adams Courthouse. 27 Harvard Law students received a Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court Certificate in recognition of their pro bono work. Read Caption Tabitha Cohen ’18 arguing before the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court Read Caption Credit: Photo provided by Nadia Farjood Dayne Lee '17, at the Massachusetts State House with Eloise Lawrence (far right), clinical instructor in community lawyering and lecturer on law at HLS; and Elvitria Marroquin and one of her two sons. Lee argued on behalf of Marroquin, who has been fighting foreclosure on her home since 2008. Read Caption "As a brand new TAP member, I learned about the administration and funding of subsidized housing programs in Massachusetts; the various legal obligations placed on housing agencies by federal and state laws; the agencies’ official and unspoken policies; and the rights and obligations of tenants." - Ming-Toy Taylor J.D. ’18 Read Caption Group photo of HLS Advocates for Human Rights Read Caption "My participation in the Recording Artists Project (RAP) has been my most important experience at Harvard law School. In fact, it was one of the reasons I came here in the first place." - Jennifer Mar J.D. ’18 Read Caption Members of the Veterans Clinic at the Legal Services Center pictured with volunteers from Veterans Legal Services as well as the MA Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Francisco Urena. Read Caption "The International Human Rights Clinic allowed me to strengthen fundamental lawyering skills. I especially enjoyed learning innovative advocacy strategies, and I have to say I was happily surprised by the people I met. Working alongside individuals with such passion and dedication to human rights was the highlight of this experience." - Salomé Gómez Upegui LL.M. ’18 Read Caption Photo of Sports Law Clinic students James McEntee J.D. '18 at the NFL, with the NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell. Read Caption Credit: Brooks Kraft Clinical students photographed at a courthouse. Read Caption (Lto R) Jennifer (J.J.) Rosenbaum ’02, women from Nima, and Sabrineh Ardalan ’02, at the Legal Resources Centre in Nima, Accra, Ghana, in 2001. Read Caption Cover photo of the report "Underserved: How the VA wrongfully excludes veterans with Bad Paper" produced by the Veterans Legal Clinic Read Caption Credit: Tom Fitzsimmons Lecturer on Law Rachel Viscomi ’01 (left) moderated the day’s first panel, “Dispute Systems Design: Expanding Horizons.” Panelists included Seanan Fong, HDS ’16, consultant and founder of Cylinder Project and a solo ombudsman to a major tech company; Stacie Nicole Smith, senior mediator and director of Workable Peace at the Consensus Building Institute; Stephan Sonnenberg ’06, faculty Member and clinic expert at the Jigme Singye Wangchuck School of Law in Bhutan; and (not pictured) Joseph B. (Josh) Stulberg, Michael E. Moritz Chair in Alternative Dispute Resolution at The Ohio State University Moritz College of Law. Read Caption Spring 2017 students in the Housing Law Clinic Read Caption About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.