Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Departments Office of Academic Affairs Visiting Faculty Appointments 2021-22 Visiting Faculty Appointments 2021-22 Office of Academic Affairs Faculty Directory 2020-2021 Faculty Yearbook Academics Faculty Resources Visiting Faculty & Lecturer on Law Resources Visiting Faculty Appointments Workshops Law Teaching Fellowships FAQs OAA Staff Access to online tools Log in to HELIOS Log in to Canvas Get help with Canvas Office of Academic Affairs Griswold 2 South1525 Massachusetts Ave.Cambridge, MA02138Phone: 617-496-1696Fax: 617-496-3111 The following Visiting Professors of Law and Lecturers on Law will be offering courses at Harvard Law School during the 2021-2022 academic year. Visiting Professors Howard ABRAMS has been appointed William K. Jacobs Visiting Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Abrams will teach the course Taxation and the reading group An Introduction to Derivatives in the Fall Term and Partnership Tax in the Winter Term. Michelle ANDERSON has been appointed Louis D. Brandeis Visiting Professor of Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the course Local Government Law. Anderson is Professor of Law and the Robert E. Paradise Faculty Fellow for Excellence in Teaching and Research at the Stanford Law School. Robert T. ANDERSON has been appointed Oneida Indian Nation Visiting Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Anderson is Professor of Law and the Director of the Native American Law Center at the University of Washington School of Law. David J. BARRON has been appointed Louis D. Brandeis Visiting Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Barron will co-teach, with Professor Archon Fung, the seminar Public Problems: Advice, Strategy and Analysis in the Fall Term. Barron is a United States Circuit Judge for the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. Michal BARZUZA has been appointed Robert Braucher Visiting Professor of Law from Practice for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course The Rise of ESG in Corporate Law & Governance and the seminar Shareholder Activism. Barzuza is a Professor of Law at the University of Virginia’s School of Law. Arnulf BECKER LORCA has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the seminar Human Rights in Transformative Constitutionalism. Becker Lorca is a Research Professor at the Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Chile. Jack BEERMAN has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Administrative Law. Beerman is a Professor of Law at Boston University School of Law. Bethany BERGER has been appointed Oneida Indian Nation Visiting Professor of Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the course American Indian Law. Berger is a Professor of Law at University of Connecticut School of Law. Daniel BOYARIN has been appointed Caroline Zelaznik Gruss and Joseph S. Gruss Visiting Professor in Talmudic Civil Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Boyarin will teach the course The Sugya in The Babylonian Talmud and the seminar Talmud for All: Family Law in the Fall Term and the course From Torah to Mitzvos and the seminar Talmud for All: Jews and Gentiles in the Spring Term. Boyarin is the Hermann P. and Sophia Taubman Professor of Talmudic Culture Professor of Law at the University of California, Berkeley. Anu BRADFORD has been appointed Henry L. Shattuck Visiting Professor of Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course International Trade Law and the reading group EU Tech Regulation. Bradford is Henry L. Moses Professor of Law at Columbia Law School. Vincent CHIAO has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Chiao will teach the seminar The Rule and The Exception in the Spring Term. Chiao is an Associate Professor at the University of Toronto Faculty of Law. Daniel R. COQUILLETTE has been appointed Charles Warren Visiting Professor of American Legal History for the 2021-2022 academic year. Coquillette will teach the seminar Legal History: American Legal Education in the Spring Term. Coquillette is the J. Donald Monan, S.J., University Professor at Boston College School of Law. Coquillette is also the Director of the Harvard Law School History Project and Reporter for the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure for the Judicial Conference of the United States. Rafael COX ALOMAR has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the course American Constitutionalism and the Insular Cases. Cox Alomar is a Professor of Law at the University of the District of Columbia. Anne DAILEY has been appointed Bennett Boskey Visiting Professor of Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the course Children and the Law and the seminar The Constitution of the Child. Dailey is the Evangeline Starr Professor of Law at University of Connecticut School of Law. Seth DAVIS has been appointed Bennett Boskey Visiting Professor of Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Torts and the reading group Constitutional Law and Colonialism. Davis is a Professor of Law at University of California, Berkeley. Elisabeth DE FONTENAY has been appointed Sullivan & Cromwell Visiting Professor of Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Corporations and the reading group Private Equity: Wall Street vs. Main Street?. De Fontenay is a Professor of Law at Duke Law. Jacques DE WERRA has been appointed Hieken Visiting Professor in Patent Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the course International Intellectual Property Transactions. De Werra is ordinary/full professor of the law of obligations (contract law) and of intellectual property law at the Faculty of Law University of Geneva. Bala DHARAN has been appointed Robert B. and Candice J. Haas Visiting Professor in Corporate Finance Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the courses Introduction to Finance Concepts in the Fall Term, Introduction to Accounting in the Fall and Spring Terms, and the course Business Valuation and Analysis in the Spring Term. Dharan is the J. Howard Creekmore Professor of Management Emeritus at the Jones Graduate School of Management at Rice University and the Managing Director at the Berkeley Research Group, LLC. Jared ELLIAS has been appointed William Nelson Cromwell Visiting Professor of Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the courses Bankruptcy and Failed Corporations: A Post-Mortem. Ellias is Professor of Law, the Bion M. Gregory Chair in Business Law and the Faculty Director of the Center for Business Law at UC Hastings. Ruth GREENWOOD has been appointed Visiting Assistant Clinical Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the Election Law Clinic and clinical seminar in the Fall and Spring Terms and the Voting Rights Litigation & Advocacy Clinic in the Fall Term. Greenwood is the Director of the Election Law Clinic at Harvard Law School. Menaka GURUSWAMY has been appointed Henry J. Steiner Visiting Professor in Human Rights Practice for the Spring Term 2022 to teach Pathways and Pitfalls: Role of International Human Rights and Constitutional Law in Achieving LGBT Equality. Guruswamy is a Senior Advocate at the Supreme Court of India. Assaf HAMDANI has been appointed William Nelson Cromwell Visiting Professor of Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Corporations and the reading group Corporate Governance. Hamdani is a Professor of Law at Tel Aviv University. Ioannis KALPOUZOS has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Kalpouzos will teach the course International Criminal Law in the Fall Term and the course International Human Rights in the Spring Term. Kalpouzos is co-founder of the Global Legal Action Network (GLAN). James KRASKA has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law and John Harvey Gregory Lecturer on World Organization for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course The International Law of the Sea. Kraska is Charles H. Stockton Professor of International Maritime Law at the U.S. Naval War College. Sanford V. LEVINSON has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the reading groups Reforming the American Constitution and Lincoln-Douglass. Levinson is the W. St. John Garwood and W. St. John Garwood, Jr. Centennial Chair in Law at the University of Texas at Austin School of Law and a Professor of Government at the University of Texas at Austin. Goodwin LIU has been appointed The Honorable S. William Green Visiting Professor of Public Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the seminar Contemporary Issues in Constitutional Law. Liu is Associate Justice of the California Supreme Court. David LOPEZ has been appointed Visiting Professor for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the seminar Law and the Legal System through the Lens of Latinx/a/o Communities. Lopez is Professor of Law and Professor Alfred Slocum Scholar at Rutgers Law School. Catharine A. MacKINNON has been appointed James Barr Ames Visiting Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. MacKinnon will teach the course Sex Equality and seminar Transgender Law & Politics in the Fall Term. MacKinnon is the Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law at the University of Michigan and has been the James Barr Ames Visiting Professor of Law at Harvard Law School since 2009. Josh MCDANIEL has been appointed Visiting Assistant Clinical Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. McDaniel will co-teach with James Sonne, Visiting Professor of Law, the Religious Freedom Clinic and Clinical Seminar in the Fall and Spring Terms. McDaniel is the Director of Harvard Law School’s Religious Freedom Clinic. Katherine MEYER has been appointed Visiting Assistant Clinical Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Meyer will teach the Animal Law & Policy Clinic and clinical seminar in the Fall and Spring Terms. Meyer is Founder and Partner at Meyer Glitzenstein & Eubanks, LLP. Peter L. MURRAY has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the Trial Advocacy Workshop. Murray is Of Counsel at Murray Plumb, and Murray in Portland, ME. Anne ORFORD has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law and John Harvey Gregory Lecturer on World Organization for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Climate Change and the Politics of International Law. Orford is Melbourne Laureate Professor and Michael D Kirby Chair of International Law at Melbourne Law School. John PALFREY has been appointed Steven and Maureen Klinsky Visiting Professor of Practice for Leadership and Progress for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the course Technology and the Public Interest. Palfrey is President of the MacArthur Foundation and previously served as Head of School at Phillips Academy Andover. Claire PRIEST has been appointed Louis D. Brandeis Visiting Professor of Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the seminar Advanced Property Law: Economic, Political, and Historical Development. Priest is the Simeon E. Baldwin Professor at Yale Law School. Deb ROY has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Fall Term 2021 to co-teach with Professor of Law, Jonathan Zittrain, the seminar Design for Democratic Discourse. Roy is Professor of Media Arts and Sciences at MIT. Peter J. RUBIN has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the course Evidence in both the Fall and Spring Terms. Rubin is Associate Justice of the Massachusetts Appeals Court. James E. SALZMAN has been appointed Jeremiah Smith, Jr. Visiting Professor of Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the courses International Environmental Law and Natural Resources Law. Salzman is the Donald Bren Distinguished Professor of Environmental Law at the University of California, Los Angeles School of Law and the University of California, Santa Barbara School of Environmental Science and Management. Philippe SANDS has been appointed Samuel LLM ’55, SJD ’59 and Judith Pisar Visiting Professor of Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course From Nuremberg to The Hague– Law, The Individual and the Group. Sands is Professor of Law at University College London and a barrister at Matrix Chambers. Sarah SEO has been appointed Daniel P.S. Paul Visiting Professor of Constitutional Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the course Criminal Procedure: Investigations. Seo is a Professor of Law at Columbia Law School. Patrice SIMMS has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Environmental Justice. Simms serves as the Vice President of Litigation for Healthy Communities with Earthjustice. James SONNE has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Fall Term 2021, and will teach the Religious Freedom Clinic and clinical seminar. Sonne is Professor of Law and Director of the Religious Liberty Clinic at Stanford Law School. Michael Ashley STEIN has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the 2021-2022 academic year, and will teach the course Disability, Human Rights, and Development in the Spring Term. Stein is Executive Director of the Harvard Law School Project on Disability, and Extraordinary Professor at the University of Pretoria Faculty of Law. Alain Laurent VERBEKE has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Winter and Spring Terms 2022 to teach in the Negotiation Workshop. Verbeke is Full Professor of Private Law and ADR at University of Leuven, Belgium, Professor of Law at the University of Tilburg, the Netherlands, Professor of Law at UCP Lisbon, Senior Partner GRENILLE by Laga MDP Deloitte, and Attorney at Law, Bar of Brussels. Penny WHITE has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach in the Trial Advocacy Workshop. She is the Elvin E. Overton Distinguished Professor of Law at the University of Tennessee College of Law. Alex WHITING has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law from Practice for the 2021-2022 academic year. Whiting will teach the course Government Lawyer in the Fall term and the Government Lawyer: United States Attorney Clinic in the Fall and Spring Terms. Whiting is the Head of Investigations at the Kosovo Specialist Prosecutor’s Office. Brian WOLFMAN has been appointed Visiting Professor of Law for the Winter and Spring Terms 2022 to teach the Appellate Courts and Advocacy Workshop and the course Writing in Conjunction with Appellate Courts and Advocacy Workshop. Wolfman is a Professor from Practice and Director of the Appellate Courts Immersion Clinic at Georgetown Law. Mary ZIEGLER has been appointed Daniel P.S. Paul Visiting Professor of Constitutional Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Torts and the reading group Roe at 50. Ziegler is the Stearns Weaver Miller Professor at Florida State University College of Law. Lecturers on Law Amir ALI has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter and Spring Terms 2022 to co-teach with Devi Rao, Lecturer on Law, the Criminal Justice Appellate Clinic in the Winter and Spring Terms and the Criminal Justice Appellate Clinical Seminar in the Spring Term. Ali is the Director of the Washington, DC office at the MacArthur Justice Center. Avi S. ALTER has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to co-teach with Davis Wang, Lecturer on Law, the course Structuring Deals: Uncovering Tax and Structuring Strategies in M&A and other Public Transactions. Alter is Managing Director, Head of M&A Structuring at Wells Fargo. Antonia M. APPS has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course White Collar Criminal Law and Procedure. Apps is Partner in the Litigation & Arbitration Group at Milbank LLP. Arevik AVEDIAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Fundamentals of Statistical Analysis. Avedian is Director of the Empirical Research Services at Harvard Law School. James BAKER has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the seminar National Security Law. Baker is a Resident Senior Fellow at the R Street Institute. Yas BANIFATEMI has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the course International Investment Arbitration. Banifatemi is Partner at Shearman & Sterling LLC. Mark D. BECKETT has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to co-teach, with Daniel Tan, Lecturer on Law, the course International Commercial Arbitration. Beckett is Principal at Beckett Law. Barbara BERENSON has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach with John Cratsley, Lecturer on Law, the clinical seminar Judicial Process in Trial Courts in the Spring Term. Roger BERTLING has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Bertling will teach the Predatory Lending and Consumer Protection Clinic and clinical seminar in both the Fall and Spring Terms. Bertling is a Senior Clinical Instructor and Director of the Predatory Lending/Consumer Protection Clinic at the WilmerHale Legal Services Center. Ben BERWICK has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021. Berwick will co-teach, with Genevieve Nadeau, Lecturer on Law, the Democracy and the Rule of Law Clinic and the seminar Legal Tools for Protecting Democracy and the Rule of Law in America. Berwick is Counsel for The Protect Democracy Project. Martin J. BIENENSTOCK has been appointed Bruce W. Nichols Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach Corporate Reorganization. Bienenstock is Chair of Proskauer’s Business Solutions, Governance, Restructuring & Bankruptcy Department in New York. Jay BLITZMAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 and Winter Term 2022 to co-teach with Clinical Professor of Law, Dehlia Umunna, and Lecturer on Law, Brandi Harden, the Trial Advocacy Workshop. Blitzman is a retired First Justice for the Massachusetts Juvenile Court, Middlesex Division. Marc J. BLOOSTEIN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the seminar Estate Planning. Bloostein is Partner at Ropes & Gray in Boston. Meredith BOAK has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 and Winter 2022 to co-teach, with Professor of Law, David Wilkins, the course Legal Profession and to co-teach, with Professor of Law Scott Westfahl, Leadership Fundamentals. Boak is Senior Vice President for Development at Teach for America. Mary L. BONAUTO has been appointed Shikes Fellow in Civil Liberties and Civil Rights and Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the reading group Flashpoints in LGBTQ Litigation. Bonuato is Civil Rights Project Director at GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD) in Boston. Charles E. BORDEN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to co-teach, with Robert Rizzi, Lecturer on Law, the course Legal Profession: Government Ethics – Scandal and Reform. Borden is Partner in Holland & Knight’s Washington, D.C. office and a member of the U.S. Financial Services Regulatory Practice. Peter BRANN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach, with James Tierney, Lecturer on Law, the course The Role of the State Attorney General in both the Fall and Spring Terms. Brann is a partner at Brann & Isaacson. Sara BUDISH has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Budish will teach the reading group Dilemmas in Dispute Resolution in the Spring Term. Budish is and Assistant Director and Clinical Instructor in the Harvard Law School Negotiation & Mediation Clinical Program. Peter CARFAGNA has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Carfagna will teach the course Sports and the Law: Examining the Legal History and Evolution of America´s Three “Major League” Sports: MLB, NFL and NBA and the course Sports Law: Advanced Contract Drafting in the Fall Term. Carfagna will also teach the course Sports and the Law: Representing the Professional Athlete in the Winter Term and the Sports Law Clinic in the Winter and Spring Terms. Carfagna is Chairman and CEO of Magis LLC in Cleveland, Ohio. Hugh CARLSON has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to co-teach, with Luke Sobota, Lecturer on Law, the course Foundations of International Arbitration: Theory and Practice. Carlson is Managing Director at Three Crowns LLP. Dale CENDALI has been appointed Covington & Burling Distinguished Visitor and Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the course Copyright and Trademark Litigation. Cendali is a Partner in the New York office of Kirkland and Ellis LLP, where her practice focuses on intellectual property litigation. Michael CHAFFERS has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the Negotiation Workshop. Michael is a Director of Talent & Organization Development at Novartis. Norm CHAMP has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the course Investment Management Law: Private Funds and Other Issues. Champ is a partner in the New York office of Kirkland & Ellis LLP. Jeanne CHARN has been appointed Senior Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Charn will teach the Delivery of Legal Services clinic and the course Legal Profession – The New Market for Personal Legal Services: Ethical and Professional Challenges in the Fall and Spring Terms as well as the seminar Financial and Legal Needs of Low and Moderate Income Households in the Spring Term. Charn is Director of the Bellow-Sacks Access to Civil Legal Services Project. Alexander CHEN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the course Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, and the Law in the Fall Term and the LGBTQ+ Advocacy Clinic in the Fall and Spring Terms. Chen is Founding Director of the LGBTQ+ Advocacy Clinic. Farayi CHIPUNGU has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the seminar Applying Adaptive Leadership to Thrive and Lead Change in Uncertain Times. Mary Beth CHOPAS has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the course Legal Research, Writing and Analysis II. Steve CHURCHILL has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the seminar Employment Law Workshop: Advocacy Skills in the Fall Term, the Employment Law Clinic for the Fall and Spring Terms, the course Employment Discrimination and the clinical seminar Employment Law Workshop: Strategies for Social Change in the Spring Term. Churchill is co-founder of Fair Work, P.C. in Boston. Eric CITRON has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022. Citron is Partner with the firm Goldstein & Russell in Washington, D.C. Richard W. CLARY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the courses Class Actions: Litigating Advanced Topics and Evidence in the Fall Term and Complex Litigation: Legal Doctrines Real World Practice in the Spring Term. Clary is a retired Litigation Partner with Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP in New York City. Rebecca Richman COHEN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Cohen will teach the seminar Seeing Criminal (In)Justice: Examining the Interplay of Visual Media, Storytelling and Criminal Law in the Fall Term, and the reading group Human Rights and Humanitarianism through the Lens of Documentary Film in the Spring Term. Cohen is the founder of Racing Horse Productions, a documentary film production company dedicated to the craft of telling stories that illuminate vital social issues. Eileen CONNOR has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Connor is Director of Litigation at the Harvard Law School WilmerHale Legal Services Center. John J. CORRIGAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Corrigan will teach the Prosecution Clinical Seminar and the Criminal Prosecution Clinic in the Fall and Winter Term. Corrigan is an attorney in private practice in Boston specializing in criminal law and employment law, and a former Assistant District Attorney for Norfolk County, MA. Kevin COSTELLO has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the seminar Health Care Rights in the Twenty-First Century. Costello is Litigation Director at the Harvard Law School Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation. John C. CRATSLEY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Cratsley will co-teach, with Barbara Berenson, Lecturer on Law, the clinical seminar Judicial Process in Trial Courts Clinic and clinical seminar in the Spring Term. Cratsley is Arbitrator and Mediator at JAMS and Director of the Harvard Law School Judicial Process in Trial Courts Clinic. Anna CROWE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to co-teach with Lecturer on Law, Aminta Ossom, the reading group Contemporary Challenges in International Human Rights. Crowe is Clinical Instructor at the Harvard International Human Rights Clinic. Timothy J. DACEY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach a section of the course Legal Profession. Dacey is Of Counsel at Goulston & Storrs in Boston. Mandy DeFILIPPO has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the reading group The Power of Principled Leadership: A Practical Approach and the seminar Leading from the Middle. DeFilippo is Managing Director, Global Head of BU Risk Management, Fixed Income Division at Morgan Stanley. Brackett DENNISTON has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the reading group Leading as a General Counsel: The challenges of being an in house counsel in a volatile world. Denniston is Senior Counsel with Goodwin in their Complex Litigation & Dispute Resolution practice. Julia DEVANTHERY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach with Maureen McDonagh, the Housing Law Clinical Workshop in both the Fall and Spring Term. Devanthéry co-teaches the Housing Clinic and directs the Housing Justice for Survivors Project. Premal DHARIA has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to co-teach, with Professor of Law Andre Manuel Crespo, the Institute to End Mass Incarceration Clinical Seminar. Dharia is the Clinical Co-Director of the Institute to End Mass Incarceration at Harvard Law School. Lisa DICKER has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the reading group Transitional Justice: Dispute Systems Design and Durable Peace in the Fall Term, and the Dispute Systems Design Clinical Seminar and the Negotiation Workshop in the Spring Term. Dicker is a Clinical Instructor in the Harvard Negotiation & Mediation Clinical Program. Bonnie DOCHERTY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022. Docherty will teach the seminar The Promises and Challenges of Disarmament in the Spring Term. Docherty is Associate Director of Armed Conflict and Civilian Protection at the Harvard Law School International Human Rights Clinic. Michael DREEBEN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to co-teach with Caitlin Halligan, Lecturer on Law, the seminar Supreme Court and Appellate Advocacy. Dreeben is Partner and Co-Chair of the White Collar Defense and Corporate Investigations Practice at O’Melveny. Timothy EDGAR has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach Legal Problems in Cybersecurity and Cyber Conflict. Edgar is Senior Fellow in International and Public Affairs at Brown University Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs. W. Neil EGGLESTON has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the reading group The New Supreme Court: changing views on the fundamental structure of government in the Fall Term, and the seminar Presidential Power in an Era of Conflict in the Spring Term. Eggleston is Partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP. Felicia ELLSWORTH has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the co-teach with William Lee, Lecturer on Law, The Craft of Lawyering. Ellsworth is a Partner with WilmerHale. Deana EL-MALLAWANY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021. El-Mallawany will co-teach, with Justin Florence, Lecturer on Law, the seminar Legal Tools for Protecting Democracy and the Rule of Law in America and the clinic Democracy and the Rule of Law. El-Mallawany is Counsel at Protect Democracy. Alonzo EMERY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the Negotiation Workshop. Emery is a Consultant at Triad Consulting Group. Jessica FJELD has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the the reading group Thinking like Yourself: Poetry, Law, and Social Justice in the Spring Term. Fjeld is Clinical Instructor in Harvard Law School’s Cyberlaw Clinic. Justin FLORENCE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the seminar Legal Tools for Protecting Democracy and the Rule of Law in America and the Democracy and the Rule of Law Clinic. Florence is the Legal Director of Protect Democracy. Bryon FONG has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to co-teach, with Professor David Wilkins, the Legal Profession Seminar. Fong is the research director at the Center on the Legal Profession at Harvard University. Richard FORREST has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to co-teach, with Professor of Law, Allen Ferrell, the seminar Law and Finance of Venture Capital and Start-ups. Morgan FRANKLIN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach in the Negotiation Workshop. Franklin is the Clinical Fellow at the Harvard Negotiation & Mediation Clinical Program. Sarah FRAZIER has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to co-teach with William Lee, Lecturer on Law, the course The Craft of Lawyering. Frazier is a Partner at WilmerHale. Natt GANTT has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Legal Profession. Gantt is the Executive Director of the Harvard Program on Biblical Law and Christian Legal Studies. Ara GERSHENGORN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to co-teach, with Erin Walczewski, the course Advocacy: Beyond the Courtroom. Gershengorn is a University Attorney in the Harvard Office of the General Counsel. Ian GERSHENGORN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach The Roberts Court: Theory and Practice. Gershengorn is Chair of Appellate and Supreme Court Practice at Jenner & Block. Nancy GERTNER has been appointed Senior Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Gertner will teach the course Mass Incarceration and Sentencing Law and the seminar Law and Neuroscience, both in the Spring Term. Gertner is a retired United States federal judge for the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Eric GLITZENSTEIN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the seminar Wildlife Law. Glitzenstein is Director of Litigation at the Center for Biological Diversity. Shaun A. GOHO has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach, with Aladdine Joroff, Lecturer on Law, the Environmental Law and Policy Clinic and the clinical seminar in both the Fall and Winter Terms and the Environmental Law and Policy Clinic in the Spring Term. Goho is a Senior Staff Attorney and Deputy Director of the Harvard Law School Emmett Environmental Law and Policy Clinic. Thomas C. GOLDSTEIN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the Supreme Court Litigation Clinic and clinical seminar. Goldstein is Partner at Goldstein & Russell. Mark GORDON has been appointed Robert B. and Candice J. Haas Lecturer in Corporate Finance Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach Mergers and Acquisitions Workshop: Boardroom Strategies and Deal Tactics. Gordon is a Partner in Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen, & Katz’s Corporate Department. Joseph GREENAWAY Jr. has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the reading group Great Cases of the Supreme Court. Greenaway is a United States Circuit Judge for the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Thomas GRIFFITH has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the course The Role of the Article III Judge. Griffith is a retired Judge for the United States Court of Appeals, D.C. Circuit. Peter GROSSI has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the course Drug Product Liability Litigation. Grossi is a Retired Partner at Arnold & Porter LLP in McLean, Virginia. Deepak GUPTA has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the seminar Forced Arbitration. Gupta is Founding Principal of Gupta Wessler PLLC. Elizabeth GWIN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach, with Dana Montalto, Lecturer on Law, the Veterans Law and Disability Benefits Clinic and Clinical Seminar in the Fall and Spring Terms. Gwin is the Associate Director for the Harvard Law School Veterans Legal Clinic. Caitlin HALLIGAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Halligan will teach the seminar Supreme Court and Appellate Advocacy Workshop in the Fall Term and the seminar Federalism and States as Public Law Actors in the Spring Term. Halligan is a partner at Selendy & Gay PLLC. Samir HANNA has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach with Lecturer on Law, Lyonel Jean-Pierre, and Lecturer on Law, Patricia Whiting, the course Advanced Clinical Practice in the Fall and Spring Terms. Brandi HARDEN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to co-teach, with Clinical Professor of Law, Dehlia Umunna and Lecturer on Law, Jay Blitzman, the Trial Advocacy Workshop. Harden is Managing Partner at Harden and Pinckney PLLC in Washington D.C. Liam HARDY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to co-teach, with Lecturer on Law, Margaret Ryan, the seminar Military Law and Justice. Hardy currently serves as a Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, and as an adjunct professor at Notre Dame Law School. Rebecca HARRIS has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2021 to co-teach with Nana Sarian, Lecturer on Law, the Fashion Law Lab. Harris is an Associate at Goulson & Storrs. Crisanne HAZEN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach Child Advocacy Clinic: System-Involved Youth and Clinical Seminar in the Fall Term, and Child Advocacy Clinic: Child Welfare, Education & Juvenile Justice in the Winter and Spring Terms. Hazen is Assistant Director of the Harvard Law School Child Advocacy Program. Shane HEBEL has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the Negotiation Workshop. Hebel is the Director of New Product and Market Development for OraSure Technologies. Benjamin W. HEINEMAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to co-teach, with Professor David Wilkins, the seminar Challenges of a General Counsel: Lawyers as Leaders. Heineman is Senior Fellow at both the Harvard Law School Program on the Legal Profession and Program on Corporate Governance and at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Albert HERRING has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022. Herring is Assistant Counsel in the Office of Professional Responsibility in the U.S. Department of Justice. David A. HOFFMAN has been appointed John H. Watson, Jr. Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Hoffman will teach the course Legal Profession: Collaborative Law in the Fall Term, the course Diversity and Dispute Resolution in the Winter Term, and the course Mediation in the Spring Term. Hoffman is a mediator, arbitrator, and attorney with the Boston Law Collaborative LLC. Kathy HOLUB has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter and Spring Terms 2022 to teach the Negotiation Workshop. She is a consultant at Mobius Executive Leadership. David HORNIK has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Entrepreneurship and Company Creation. Hornik is a General Partner with August Capital. Peter Barton HUTT has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the course Food and Drug Law. Hutt is Senior Counsel at Covington & Burling, LLP in Washington, D.C. Lyonel JEAN-PIERRE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach with Lecturer on Law, Samir Hanna, and Lecturer on Law, Patricia Whiting, the course Advanced Clinical Practice in the Fall and Spring Terms. Jean-Pierre is a Clinical Instructor/Supervising Attorney with Harvard Legal Aid Bureau. Aladdine JOROFF has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach, with Shaun Goho, Lecturer on Law, the Environmental Law and Policy Clinical Course and the course Climate Solutions Living Lab in the Spring Term. Joroff is Clinical Instructor in the Emmett Environmental Law and Policy Clinic at Harvard Law School. Daniel KAHN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022, to co-teach with Leo Tsao, Lecturer on Law, and Lorinda Laryea, Lecturer on Law, Corporate Criminal Investigations. Kahn is a Partner at DavisPolk. Kobi KASTIEL has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to co-teach, with Professor Lucian Bebchuk, the courses Controlling Shareholders and Corporate and Capital Markets Law and Policy. Kastiel is Research Director for The Project on Controlling Shareholder at the Harvard Law School Program on Corporate Governance. Nancy KELLY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022, to co-teach with John Willshire-Carrera, the seminar Emerging Issues in Refugee Protection: The Representation of Child Asylum Seekers. Kelly is a Clinical Instructor and Co-Managing Director of the Harvard Immigration and Refugee Clinic at Greater Boston Legal Services. Jocelyn KENNEDY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Advanced Legal Research. Kennedy is Executive Director at the Harvard Law School Library. Mary C. KENNEDY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach in the Trial Advocacy Workshop. Kennedy is Counsel at Arnold & Porter Kaye Scholer, LLP. Ray KETHLEDGE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring 2022 to teach the course Classical Liberalism and the Rule of Law. Judge Kethlede serves on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Tara KOLE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the reading group Entertainment and Media Law: Entertainment Transactions and Negotiations. Kole is a Partner at Gang, Tyre, Ramer, Brown & Passman. Mason KORTZ has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the reading group Algorithms, Rights, and Responsibilities. Kortz is a Clinical Instructor at HLS’s Cyberlaw Clinic, part of the Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society. Lorinda LARYEA has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022, to co-teach with Leo Tsao, Lecturer on Law, and Daniel Kahn, Lecturer on Law, Corporate Criminal Investigations. Laryea is Assistant Chief of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) Unit at the Department of Justice. Audrey LEE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to co-teach with David Hoffman, Lecturer on Law, the course Mediation. Lee is Senior Mediator & Institute Executive Director at the Boston Law Collaborative. Thomas R. LEE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the seminar Advanced Interpretation: Law and Language. Lee is Associate Chief Justice for the Utah Supreme Court. William LEE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the course The Craft of Lawyering. Lee is a partner at WilmerHale. Elaine LIN HERING has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter and Spring Terms 2022 to teach the Negotiation Workshop. Lin Hering is a Managing Partner of Triad Consulting Group. Beatrice LINDSTROM has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the seminar Human Rights Advocacy. Lindstrom is a Clinical Instructor at HLS’s International Human Rights Clinic and Supervising Attorney of Advocates for Human Rights. Victor MADRIGAL-BORLOZ has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the reading group Regional Human Rights Law: The Inter-American Perspective. Madrigal-Borloz is a founding member of the Costa Rican Association of International Law (ACODI), a founding Board member of the International Justice Resource Centre (IJRC), and a founding Board member of Synergia-IDH. Mina MALIK has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022. Malik is formerly the Executive Director of the New York City Civilian Complaint Review Board. Julie McCORMACK has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach with Elizabeth Gwinn, Lecturer on Law, the Poverty Law Workshop: A Toolkit for Addressing Inequity & Homelessness in the Fall and Spring Terms. McCormack is a Senior Clinical Instructor and Director of the Safety Net Project at HLS’s WilmerHale Legal Services Center. David McCRAW has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Mass Media Law. McCraw is Vice President & Deputy General Counsel at The New York Times Company. Maureen McDONAGH has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. McDonagh will co-teach with Julia Devanthery, the Housing Law Clinical Workshop and the Housing Law Clinic in both the Fall and Spring Terms. McDonagh is a Managing Attorney and Director of the Housing Law Clinic in the Harvard Law School WilmerHale Legal Services Center. Neil McGARAGHAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach, with Morgan Franklin, Lecturer on Law, the reading group Political Dialogue in Polarized Times in the Fall Term, McGaraghan will teach the Negotiation Workshop in the Spring Term. McGaraghan is Clinical Instructor in the Harvard Law School Negotiation and Mediation Clinical Program. Alexandra MCKINNEY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2022 to teach the course Legal Research, Writing and Analysis II. McKinney is the Assistant Director for Clerkships in the Harvard Law School Office of Career Services. Amy MCMANUS has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the courses An Introduction to American Law and Legal Research, Writing and Analysis II. Shayna MEDLEY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the course First Year Legal Research and Writing 4A in the Fall and Spring Terms. Medley is a current Litigation Fellow at the Center for Reproductive Rights. Scott MICHELMAN has been appointed Shikes Fellow in Civil Liberties and Civil Rights and Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Civil Rights Litigation. Michelman is a Senior Staff Attorney at the American Civil Liberties Union of the District of Columbia. Catherine MONDELL has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the Mediation Clinic and clinical seminar. Mondell is a Lecturer at Boston University’s School of Law. Dana MONTALTO has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the Veterans Law and Disability Benefits Clinic – Advanced Clinical in the Spring Term. Montalto is is an Attorney and Clinical Instructor in the Veterans Law Clinic. Genevieve NADEAU has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the Democracy and the Rule of Law Clinic and Legal Tools for Protecting Democracy and the Rule of Law in America Seminar. Nadeau is Counsel at Protect Democracy. Linda NETSCH has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter and Spring Terms 2022 to teach the Negotiation Workshop. Netsch is Founder at Align Consulting, Inc. Thomas NEWMAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022, to teach the course Introduction to Trial Advocacy. Newman is a Partner at Kelly Newman Advisors. Memme ONWUDIWE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022, to teach the reading group Startup Entrepreneurship and Innovations in Legal Technology. Onwudiwe is the Executive Vice President of Legal and Business Intelligence with Evisort. Aminta OSSOM has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to co-teach with Lecturer on Law, Anna Crowe, the reading group Contemporary Challenges in International Human Rights. Ossom is a clinical instructor at the Harvard International Human Rights Clinic and prior Human Rights Officer at the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Robin PAINTER has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to co-teach, with Sarah Reed, Lecturer on Law, the course Nuts and Bolts of Forming A Venture Capital Fund. Painter is a partner and global co-head of the Private Funds Group at Proskauer. Deanna PARRISH has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the Dispute Systems Design Clinical Seminar in the Fall Term and in the Negotiation Workshop in the Spring Term. Parrish is a Clinical Instructor at the Harvard Negotiation & Mediation Clinical Program. Deborah PAUL has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course International Taxation. Paul is a Partner is the Tax Department at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. Nina PERALES has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the reading group Current Topics in Latino Civil Rights. Perales is the Vice President of Litigation for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF). Ari PESKOE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the reading group Creating Electricity in the U.S.: Exploring the Tradeoffs in the Fall Term and the course State Energy Law in the Spring Term. Peskoe is Director of the Electricity Law Initiative at Harvard Law School’s Environmental and Energy Law Program. Leah PLUNKETT has been appointed Meyer Research Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Plunkett is also the inaugural Assistant Dean for Learning Experience & Technology at HLS. Plunkett will teach the reading group Youth, Privacy, and Digital Citizenship in the Fall Term and the reading group Access to Justice in the Digital World in the Spring Term. Mitchell PRESSER has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course Cross Border M&A: Drafting, Negotiation & the Auction Process. Presser is Partner at Morrison & Foerster. Devi RAO has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to co-teach, with Amir Ali, Lecturer on Law, the Criminal Justice Appellate Clinic and Clinical Seminar. Rao is a Supreme Court and Appellate Counsel at the MacArthur Justice Center in Washington, DC. Alan RAUL has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the course Digital Governance: Privacy and Technology Trade-Offs. Raul is a Partner at Sidley. Sarah REED has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to co-teach, with Robin Painter, Lecturer on Law, the course Nuts and Bolts of Forming A Venture Capital Fund. Reed is a recognized expert on legal aspects of venture capital, and is Venture General Counsel at RA Capital Management. Robert RIZZI has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to co-teach, with Charles Borden, Lecturer on Law, the course Legal Profession: Government Ethics – Scandal and Reform. Rizzi is a Partner at Steptoe in Washington, DC. Stephanie ROBINSON has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Robinson will teach the course Race & The Law: America’s Ongoing Struggle with Changing Conceptions of Race in the Fall Term, and the seminars Law & Democracy: The Incomplete Experiment and Media Images & The Law: Contesting Media in the Modern Era in the Spring Term. Robinson is Principal Officer of The Robinson Sullivan Group. Jennifer J. ROSENBAUM has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022, to teach the seminar International Labor Migration. Rosenbaum is Executive Director at Global Labor Justice. Amy ROSENBERG has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach, with Clinical Professor of Law Robert Greenwald, the seminar Public Health Law and Policy in both the Fall and Spring Terms. Rosenberg is a Senior Clinical Instructor in the Harvard Law School Health Law and Policy Clinic. Peter ROSENBERG has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the course ERISA. Rosenberg is a Partner at Ropes & Gray. Diane L. ROSENFELD has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Rosenfeld will teach the seminar Title IX: Sex and Equality on Campus and the reading group Feminist Utopias in the Fall Term as well as the courses Gender Violence, Law and Social Justice and the Gender Violence Advanced Legal Policy and Research Seminar in the Spring Term. Rosenfeld is Director of the Harvard Law School Gender Violence Program. Kevin RUSSELL has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to co-teach, with Tom Goldstein, Sarah Harrington, and Eric Citron, the Supreme Court Litigation seminar and clinic. Russell is Partner with the firm Goldstein & Russell in Washington, D.C. Margaret RYAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to co-teach, with Liam Hardy, Lecturer on Law, the seminar Military Law and Justice. Ryan is a former Federal Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces. Thomas SAENZ has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022. Saenz is President and General Counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF). Nana SARIAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to co-teach, with Rebecca Harris, Lecturer on Law, the Fashion Law Lab. Sarian is General Counsel at Stella McCartney. Patti SARIS has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the seminar Facts and Lies. Saris is a former Chief United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Steven SCHAUS has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the reading group Rights and Rights Holders. Schaus is a Postdoctoral Fellow in the Project on the Foundations of Private Law. Emily SCHULMAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach a section of Evidence. Schulman is a Partner at WilmerHale in Boston. Emma SCOTT has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the reading group Food System Workers. Scott is a Clinical Instructor at the HLS Food Law and Policy Clinic. Tejinder SINGH has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach the Supreme Court Litigation Clinic and Clinical Seminar. Singh is a Partner at Goldstein & Russell, PC. Benjamin SOBEL has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the reading group Property in the Age of Artificial Intelligence. Sobel currently serves as a law clerk on the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. Luke SOBOTA has been Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Sobota will co-teach, with Hugh Carlson, Lecturer on Law, the course Foundations of International Arbitration: Theory and Practice. Sobota is Partner at Three Crowns LLP. Santha SONENBERG has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022, to co-teach the Introduction to Trial Advocacy course. Sonenberg was a public defender for more than 30 years in local and federal courts in Washington D.C. Marshall SONENSHINE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022, to teach the course Advanced Corporate Transactions. Sonenshine is Chairman and Managing Partner at Sonenshine Partners. Pedro SPIVAKOSKY-GONZALEZ has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022, to teach in the Negotiation Workshop. Spivakosky-Gonzalez is a Staff Attorney at ABA ProBAR. Douglas STONE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter and Spring Terms 2022 to teach in the Negotiation Workshop. Stone is a Founder of the Triad Consulting Group in Somerville, MA. Nicole SUMMERS has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the reading group HLAB: Spanish for Public Interest Lawyers. Summers is a Clinical Instructor at Harvard’s Legal Aid Bureau. Jeffrey S. SUTTON has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to co-teach the course with Professor Nikolas Bowie, State Constitutional Law. Sutton is a United States Circuit Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Christopher TAGGART has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the course Legal Research, Writing and Analysis I. Taggart is a Lecturer in Law at the University of Surrey. Roberto TALLARITA has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021. Tallarita is a Senior Fellow in Law and Economics and an Associate Director of the Program on Corporate Governance, at Harvard Law School. Daniel TAN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022. Tan will co-teach, with Mark Beckett, Lecturer on Law, the course International Commercial Arbitration. Tan is Principal of Dan Tan Law, a boutique international litigation and arbitration law firm based in New York. James E. TIERNEY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. He will co-teach, with Peter Brann, Lecturer on Law, the course The Role of the State Attorney General in the Fall and Spring Terms. Tierney will also teach the clinic Government Lawyer: Attorney General in the Fall, Winter, and Spring Terms. Tierney is Founder of StateAG.org. Jerry TING has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022. Ting is Founder, CEO, and Chairman of the Board of Evisort. Susannah Barton TOBIN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Tobin will teach First Year Legal Research and Writing 7A in the Fall and Spring Terms and the reading group Becoming a Law Professor in the Spring Term. Tobin is the Managing Director of the Climenko Program and Assistant Dean for Academic Career Advising at Harvard Law School. Gillien TODD has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to teach in the Negotiation Workshop. Todd is a consultant with Triad Consulting. Louis TOMPROS has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the course Patent Trial Advocacy. Tompros is a Partner with WilmerHale. Philip L. TORREY has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Torrey will teach the course Crimmigration: The Intersection of Criminal Law and Immigration Law in the Fall Term and the Crimmigration Clinic in the Fall and Spring Terms and co-teach with Professor Sabrineh Ardalan the course Strategic Litigation and Immigration Advocacy Spring Term. Torrey is a Managing Attorney in the Harvard Law School Immigration and Refugee Clinic. Leo TSAO has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022, to co-teach with Daniel Kahn, Lecturer on Law, and Lorinda Laryea, Lecturer on Law, the seminar Corporate Criminal Investigations. Tsao is Chief of the Bank Integrity Unit, in the Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section of the Criminal Division, at the United States Department of Justice and adjunct Professor of Law at Georgetown Law. Ko-Yung TUNG has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the reading group Sustainable Development and International Investment Arbitration: Issues, Policies and Challenges. Jamie WACKS has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Jamie will teach the course Legal Profession in the Fall and Legal Profession: Public Interest Lawyering in the Spring Term. Salma WAHEEDI has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach the seminar Human Rights Advocacy and the reading group Islamic Law: Human Rights Advocacy in the Muslim World. Waheedi is a Clinical Instructor at HLS’s International Human Rights Clinic and Associate Director for the Program on Law and Society in the Muslim World. Erin WALCZEWSKI has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Winter Term 2022 to co-teach, with Ara Gershengorn, Lecturer on Law, the course Advocacy: The Courtroom and Beyond. Walczewski is Pro Bono Counsel at Cooley LLP. Davis WANG has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring 2022 to teach the course Structuring Deals: Uncovering Tax and Structuring Strategies in M&A and other Public Transactions. Wang is Partner at Sullivan & Cromwell. Lael WEINBERGER has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the reading group Religious Institutions and the Religion Clauses. Weinberger is currently the Olin-Searle-Smith Fellow in Law at Harvard Law School. Patricia WHITING has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to co-teach, with Samir Hanna, Lecturer on Law, the course Advanced Clinical Practice in the Fall and Spring Terms. Whiting is Senior Clinical Instructor in the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau. John WILLSHIRE has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022, to co-teach with Nancy Kelly, Lecturer on Law, the seminar Emerging Issues in Refugee Protection: The Representation of Child Asylum Seekers. Willshire is Co-Managing Director of the Harvard Immigration and Refugee Clinic at the Greater Boston Legal Services. Benjamin WITTES has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the seminar Writing about the Law for General Audiences. Wittes is a senior fellow in Governance Studies at The Brookings Institution. Jonathan J. WROBLEWSKI has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year. Wroblewski will teach the Government Lawyer: Semester in Washington Clinic and clinical seminar in the Winter and Spring Terms. Wroblewski is Director of the Office of Policy and Legislation, Criminal Division, at the U.S. Department of Justice. Alicia YAMIN has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Spring Term 2022 to teach the seminar Contested Domains: Comparative and International Legal Struggles over Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights. Yamin leads the Global Health and Rights Project, which is a collaboration of the Petrie-Flom Center for Health Law Policy, Biotechnology and Bioethics (PFC) at Harvard Law School and the Global Health Education and Learning Incubator (GHELI) at Harvard University. Marianna YANG has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the 2021-2022 academic year to teach Litigating in the Family Courts: Domestic Violence and Family Law Clinic and clinical seminar. Yang is Clinical Instructor at the WilmerHale Legal Services Center of Harvard Law School. Daniel YI has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021, and will co-teach, with Professor Scott Westfahl, the seminar Legal Innovation Through Design Thinking. Yi is Senior Counsel for Innovation, Civil Rights Division in the U.S. Department of Justice. Cindy ZAPATA has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to co-teach, with Professor Sabrineh Ardalan, the seminar Trauma, Refugees and Asylum Law. Zapata is a Clinical Instructor at the Harvard Immigration and Refugee Clinical Program. David ZIMMER has been appointed Lecturer on Law for the Fall Term 2021 to teach the Federal Courts Clinic and Clinical Seminar. Zimmer is a partner in the Litigation Department at Goodwin. Follow OAA on TwitterTweets by @HLSAcadAff Follow HLS on Facebook Follow HLS on Facebook Recent Faculty Scholarship Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Inspiring change Supreme Court preview: Kennedy v. Bremerton School District ‘I’d love it if poetry was required reading for law school’ View All » About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.