Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial About Information about HLS Dean’s Welcome Department Directory History of Harvard Law School HLS Bicentennial News FAQ Campus Map and Directions Accessibility Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Title IX Information Contact HLS POPULAR LINKS Apply to HLS HLS Calendar of Events Support HLS Media Information Emergency Information featured-content Dean's Welcome HLS combines genuine excellence and wonderful diversity on a scale that is unmatched anywhere. No law school has done more to shape law or legal education. The unique strength of our community is that it brings together, from around the world, so many exceptionally talented people of different backgrounds, lived experiences, interests, ambitions, approaches, methodologies, and perspectives. Read the message from Dean John F. Manning <span class="p-list-title"><span>HLS at a Glance</span></span> HLS at a Glance 1817 Founded in 1817, Harvard Law School is the oldest continuously operating law school in the United States and is home to the largest academic law library in the world. Read more about HLS history 1,990 Approximately 1,990 students attend HLS each year: 1,750 J.D. students 180 LL.M. students 60 S.J.D. candidates Learn about student life 250+ The faculty includes more than 100 full-time professors and more than 150 visiting professors. The curriculum of more than 260 courses and seminars covers a broad range of traditional and emerging legal fields. Meet Our Faculty The HLS Experience The HLS Experience Our Faculty Leading specialists in every subject area Our Faculty Leading specialists in every subject area The centerpiece of the HLS experience is working directly with scholars who shape the landscape of American and international law. Beyond the classroom, students provide critical support to faculty producing cutting-edge research and influencing the development of the law and of societies around the world. Learn more about HLS Faculty Learn more about HLS Faculty Programs of Study A guide to approach particular subjects and potential careers Programs of Study A guide to approach particular subjects and potential careers HLS faculty developed Programs of Study to guide students through their three years at law school. The Programs of Study are also a tool for better coordination and collaboration between faculty members and reflect the best advice from faculty about how to approach particular subjects and potential careers. Explore Programs of Study Explore Programs of Study The Clinical Experience Hands-on Learning The Clinical Experience Hands-on Learning The Clinical Legal Education Program is one of the most important and valued aspects of a Harvard Law School education, confirming our commitment to providing our students with the best possible educational experience. Explore Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Explore Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Employment After Graduation Over 500 employers recruit on campus at HLS each year Employment After Graduation Over 500 employers recruit on campus at HLS each year Upon graduation, roughly 60–65 percent of HLS graduates enter private practice, about 20 percent enter judicial clerkships, and about 10–15 percent enter public interest or government work, business and industry, academia, or other unique pursuits. Continue Reading Continue Reading International Scope Opportunities to serve communities around the world International Scope Opportunities to serve communities around the world With students coming from more than 70 countries to study here and with hundreds of current students going abroad each year to work, study, engage in research, or advocate for change, HLS is truly a global crossroads. Explore International Legal Studies Explore International Legal Studies Public Service Guaranteed funding for public interest work Public Service Guaranteed funding for public interest work HLS strongly promotes public service. The school guarantees funding for summer public interest work, and over 480 JD students received funds to work throughout the U.S. and in 44 foreign countries in 2014. The Office of Public Interest Advising provides comprehensive services to students pursuing public service careers. Continue Reading Continue Reading HLS Directory HLS Directory The HLS directories can help you find a particular member of our staff, faculty, or student body as well as contact information administrative departments. You can also find resources on our world-class research programs and clinics. Directory Resources Department Directory Student Directory Staff Directory (Connections) Research Programs Clinics and the Clinical Program featured-content Student Life At HLS, a wide variety of extracurricular activities complement and enrich the classroom and clinical experiences. Whether exploring professional interests, serving the public, or merely socializing, students engage in an enormous range of activity on the HLS campus beyond the classroom. At present, there are more than 100 student organizations and journals at HLS. Student organizations based on social, political, service, or professional interests plan workshops, panels, concerts, networking opportunities, and conferences for almost every day of the academic year. Visit the Dean of Students Site image-gallery A Global Network of Alumni Leaders The Harvard Law School alumni network includes more than 38,000 leaders in government, NGOs, law firms and the legal services industry, major businesses and corporations, public service non-profits, education, and arts, among others. View Gallery Credit: Tony Rinaldo Loretta Lynch ’84, former U.S. attorney general, in conversation with HLS Professor Annette Gordon-Reed ’84 Read Caption John Roberts '79, Chief Justice of the United States Read Caption Dean Martha Minow and Associate Justice of the US Supreme Court Elena Kagan '86 Read Caption Barack Obama '91 and Professor Charles Ogletree '78 Read Caption Former MA Governor Mitt Romney J.D./M.B.A. '75 Read Caption Ruth Bader Ginsburg '56-'58, Associate Justice of the US Supreme Court Read Caption Credit: Martha Stewart Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer '64 Read Caption Prime Minister of Tibet, Lobsang Sangay LL.M. '96 S.J.D. '04 Read Caption US Senator Mark Warner '80 Read Caption Credit: Martha Stewart Retired Associate Justice David Souter '66 and Retired Associate Justice Sandra Day O’Connor Read Caption Credit: Phil Farnsworth United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julian Castro '00 Read Caption United States Representatives Joaquín Castro '00 Read Caption [L-R] Adalberto Jordan, U.S. Court of Appeals Eleventh Circuit; Antonin Scalia ’60, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States; and Patricia Millett ’88, U.S. Court of Appeals District of Columbia Circuit Read Caption Former US Attorney General Janet Reno '63 Read Caption Credit: Phil Farnsworth Former World Bank President Robert Zoellick '81 Read Caption Credit: Martha Stewart Anne Holton '83 and US Senator Tim Kaine '83 Read Caption Anthony Kennedy '61, Supreme Court Associate Justice of the United States Read Caption Music Executive Clive Davis '56 Read Caption Credit: Martha Stewart Former MA Governor Michael Dukakis '60 and Professor Robert Bordone '97 Read Caption Credit: Jon Chase Consumer Advocate Ralph Nader '58 Read Caption Former President of Ireland Mary Robinson '68 Read Caption Credit: Martha Stewart Dean Martha Minow and Viacom Chairman Sumner Redstone '47 Read Caption Former MA Governor Deval Patrick '82 Read Caption Former US Senator Elizabeth Dole '65 Read Caption Helen Chu and Morgan Chu '76 Read Caption US Senator Jack Reed '82 Read Caption Former US Solicitor General Paul Clement '92 Read Caption About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.