Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Library Empirical Research Services Designing an Empirical Legal Study Designing an Empirical Legal Study Library Access digital or physical materials (HOLLIS Catalog) Student research resources Discover legal databases Chat, email, or schedule an appointment with a librarian Find research guides by topic Study guides and past exams Resources for faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Harvard Law School Library Langdell Hall1545 Massachusetts AvenueCambridge, MA02138Phone: 617-495-3455Find us on the mapContact Us Ask a Librarian! This section offers broad advice on what to keep in mind when constructing a research design. Many of the points discussed below are drawn from and presented more fully within Epstein & King (2002) as well as King, Keohane, & Verba (1994) which are highly recommended sources for in-depth guidance on proper research design and execution. The first step of any empirical research study is to formulate a research question. What does the study seek to explain? A good research question should generally conform to the following rules: The question should be relevant to the real world. It is important that the study seeks to provide practical and important implications for society. The question should contribute to an existing body of scholarly literature. By speaking to an established set of related studies, the researcher can help avoid significant problems such as duplicating or overlooking previous work. Issac Newton’s famous quote, “if I have seen a little further it is by standing on the shoulders of Giants” colorfully illustrates this rule. Once the research question is clearly stated, the next step is to offer a clear answer to the question which is theoretically informed and from which falsifiable hypotheses can be derived. The hypothesis should: Be stated clearly enough to allow for a test which can determine if the proposed answer is wrong. Specify a relationship between an outcome (dependent variable) and one or more explanatory variables (independent variables). If there is insufficient evidence to reject a clearly stated, falsifiable hypothesis, then the theory becomes increasingly plausible. A theory which offers many observable implications and therefore more opportunities to be tested has the potential to become a very strong theory if the hypotheses derived from it cannot be rejected. Remember that the fundamental objective of empirical research is to make inferences—that is, using known facts to understand unknown facts. Typically we use observable data (known facts) to test certain hypotheses which are guided by theory to uncover these unknown facts. Let’s take a look at a simple example. About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.