Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Departments Office of Communications Podcasts by HLS affiliates Podcasts by HLS affiliates Office of Communications HLS Style Guides Event Planning and Publicity Planning Events at HLS Online Support News Coverage Media Relations Faculty Experts Graphic Design Photography Video and Audio Guidelines Publications Communications Office Staff Office of Communications Cambridge, MA02138Phone: 617-495-3118 Email: info@law.harvard.eduFind us on the map Podcasts are a great way to engage with the scholarship and legal conversations at HLS. These podcasts are all hosted or produced by HLS faculty, staff, and students. Another Way Professor Larry Lessig and the Equal Citizens team talk to presidential candidates, authors, activists, and more to bring you in-depth information about the most important issues in our democracy, and to let you know who can finally make change happen. Audio Fishbowl The Berkman Klein Center’s Audio Fishbowl features conversations with leading cyber-scholars, entrepreneurs, activists, and policymakers as they explore the bleeding edge of the internet and technology, democracy, law, and society. CleanLaw The Harvard Law School Environmental & Energy Law Program talks to experts about the latest in environmental and energy law, new research, and news on environmental deregulation. Convergence Oladeji Tiamiyu from the Harvard Negotiation & Mediation Clinical Program speaks with thought-leaders at the intersection of dispute resolution and technology, covering: the role technology has had in resolving disputes during the pandemic; ways technological tools have been incorporated into dispute resolution; and creative use cases that technology presents for resolving disputes. Dandelions: A Harvard Law School Student Podcast 2L student Mazelle Etessami in conversation with other HLS students examining themes such as identity, community, and human connection, this podcast aims to capture the human element that can be lacking in a virtual world. Deep Background Harvard Law School professor Noah Feldman brings together a cross-section of expert guests to explore the historical, scientific, legal, and cultural context that help us understand what’s really going on behind the biggest stories in the news. HALB Leadership Podcast Presented by the Harvard Association for Law and Business (HALB), this podcast explores powerful ideas on how the current generation of law students can survive, thrive and grow as leaders in the face of a changing legal profession. Hate 2 See It The Harvard Law School Black Law Students Association (BLSA) address anything from reparations to Rick Ross, utilizing our platform at Harvard to highlight issues concerning law school, politics, the black community, pop culture, and much more. KickBack: The Global Anticorruption Podcast Professor Matthew Stephenson teams up with members of the Interdisciplinary Anti-Corruption Research Network to conduct in-depth interviews with a wide range of corruption experts. Lawfare Professor Jack Goldsmith frequently participates in this joint production between the Lawfare staff and the Brookings Institution. Episodes include interviews with policymakers, scholars, journalists, and analysts; events and panel discussions. NAPABA Coffee House Conversations with leading General Counsels of Fortune 1000 companies. Presented by the National Asian Pacific American Bar Association (NAPABA) in collaboration with the HLS Center on the Legal Profession. Produced by Genevieve Antono ’22 as her CLP Student Fellowship Project. Hosted by Lawrence Tu ’81. Navigating Law School Admissions with Miriam & Kristi Miriam Ingber (Associate Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid at Yale Law School) and Kristi Jobson ’12 (Assistant Dean for Admissions at Harvard Law School) provide candid, accurate, and straightforward advice about law school admissions. Taking Liberties Presented by the Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review, this podcast explores the most pressing civil rights and civil liberties issues of the day. Thanks for Listening The Harvard Negotiation & Mediation Clinical Program spotlights efforts to bridge the political divide in the U.S. through dialogue and collaborative processes. Follow Us On TwitterTweets by Harvard_Law Follow Us on Facebook Follow Us on Facebook Upcoming Events Wed 01 Harvard International Office (HIO) Open Office Hours with Peter O’Meara June 1 @ 12:00 pm - 2:00 pm View More… About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.