Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Dean of Students Office Explore Resources For Dean of Students Office Student Support Services Advising and Mentorship POPULAR LINKS Student Directory Title IX Board of Student Advisers Amicus DOS Staff Directory Dean of Students 3039 Wasserstein Hall (WCC)1585 Massachusetts AvenueCambridge, MA02138Phone: 617-495-1880Fax: 617-496-0544Email: dos@law.harvard.eduHours: 9:00am - 5:00pm wysiwyg New! Lost your Name Tent Card? Order a new one here. Contact Guide and FAQs Contact Guide and FAQs How Can the DOS Help You? The Dean of Students Office is the primary advocate and administrative liaison for Harvard Law Students. We focus on issues concerning student life at HLS, and act as a resource for information and guidance. If you are not sure who to call at the Law School, for a quick question or a more serious concern, contact the Dean of Students office first at 617-495-1880, dos@law, or stop by Wasserstein 3039. We’re here to help! Learn more HLS Resources for Students HLS Resources for Students Emergency Contacts Housing Lockers Transportation MBTA Semester Pass Program Photocopying and Printing Services Support For Expecting Parents and Students with Children International J.D. Resource Center Map of Gender-Inclusive Bathrooms on Campus (PDF) Featured Links Featured Links Taking the Bar Exam Admission to the bar is conducted through the Board of Bar Examiners of the state in which you are applying. There have been many updates to this process this year due to the global pandemic. Learn more about these changes, applying for and taking the Bar Exam.Continue Reading about Taking the Bar ExamContinue Reading Amicus: Online Directory and Advising Platform Amicus is a searchable directory and advising tool. Using the latest matching technology, Amicus will help you find other students who share your experiences and interests. It is a terrific way to make connections and build community here at HLS. Explore Amicus and Complete Your Profile Today!Explore Amicus and Complete Your Profile Today! Announcements Announcements Congratulations, 1Ls! May 26, 2022 Congratulations on completing your 1L year! Now that you are a rising 2L, be on the lookout for our 2L Weekly Bulletins and check out the 2L Guide to Summer Jobs to help you plan your 2L job search. Congratulations, 1Ls! Important Graduation Announcements and Ways to Keep in Touch! May 19, 2022 Congratulations, graduates! We have loved working with you. Many of our services are available to you after you leave HLS and we very much hope that you will stay in touch. All graduating students are welcome to join alumni listserv for a weekly email with fellowship and entry-level job opportunities that require 0-3 years’ experience, job opportunities that require 3+ years’ experience, relevant announcements, and events. Important Graduation Announcements and Ways to Keep in Touch! New World Social Innovation Fellowship Application Open! May 12, 2022 The New World Social Innovation Fellows Program invites all change-makers, innovators, and leaders of positive social change to apply to the New World Social Innovation Fellows Program by June 10, 2022. New World Social Innovation Fellowship Application Open! May 16, 2022: Religious Freedom Clinic Application Deadline (Fall 2022 and Spring 2023) May 11, 2022 As a reminder, the application deadline for the Religious Freedom Clinic (offered in Fall 2022 or Spring 2023) is Monday, May 16, 2022. Admission to the Religious Freedom Clinic is by permission of the Clinic Director, Josh McDaniel. Students should submit an application to jmcdaniel@law.harvard.edu by May 16, 2022. (Applications after that date will […] May 16, 2022: Religious Freedom Clinic Application Deadline (Fall 2022 and Spring 2023) Older Posts Spend the Spring 2023 Semester in Washington, D.C.! Applications due by August 19, 2022 May 10, 2022 Fall Internships with House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis May 2, 2022 The Entry-level Job Search E-advising Series: Networking May 2, 2022 U.S. Department of Energy Fall 2022 Student Volunteer May 2, 2022 Administrative Updates Administrative Updates Submit to AdUp Professor Jacob Gersen is seeking an RA for work on projects in administrative law, constitutional law, and law & psychology Research Assistant for Digital Governance (Fall 2022 Seminar) Corporate Governance Research Opportunities for All Admitted Students Research Assistant in Corporate Law for Professor Mark Roe during the Summer 2022 Seeking a Research Assistant for Professor Niko Bowie Professor Natapoff seeks summer Research Assistant Corporate Governance Research Opportunities for All Admitted Students May 16, 2022: Religious Freedom Clinic Application Deadline (Fall 2022 and Spring 2023) Spend the Spring 2023 Semester in Washington, D.C.! Applications due by August 19, 2022 View All Dean of Students Home Page Test Student Spotlights ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 Reflections of the Class of 2022 May 26, 2022 View All » Follow Us On TwitterTweets by HarvardLawDOS HLS Facebook Feed HLS Facebook Feed About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.