Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Alumni Alumni Profile: Sangu Delle JD/MBA '16 Sangu Delle JD/MBA ’16 knew since he was a young boy growing up in Accra, Ghana, that he wanted to play a role in the future prosperity of Africa. Read more about Sangu Delle's story. Explore Resources For Alumni Harvard Law School Reunions Giving to HLS How to Make Your Gift Alumni News and Profiles Harvard Law School Association (HLSA) Clubs Events Networking and Careers Contact Us Visit HLS POPULAR LINKS Submit a Class Note HLS Amicus SCOTUS Bar Admission Transcript Requests Harvard Law School Alumni Center Pound Hall1563 Massachusetts AvenueCambridge, MA02138 News and Profiles News and Profiles COVID adaptation begets innovation In the newly robust digital world, HLS is finding new ways to deliver excellent legal education. Read more. Yuji Iwasawa LL.M. ’78 Japanese scholar of international law, re-elected to the International Court of Justice, brings a strong commitment to human rights. Read more. Laying the groundwork for real-life lawyering Independent clinical students are making the most of a digital world. Read more. HLS Alumni Benefits HLS Alumni Benefits HLS Amicus: Community for Life Amicus is Harvard Law School’s online alumni and student directory and advising tool that enables you to reconnect with friends and classmates, forge new relationships across shared interests, and advise a current student. Curate your own alumni profile today. Alumni Voices Alumni Voices “When you think about the people who have come through this law school, it's really an extraordinary group of people.” — Kannon K. Shanmugam '98 Partner, Paul Weiss featured-content Thank you to our donors! To all of those who support the mission and excellence of Harvard Law School, we are extremely grateful for your generosity and friendship. Through your continued giving, we are able to attract the best and brightest law students, support world-renowned faculty shaping the present and future of law, and provide meaningful opportunities for our alumni to continue to inspire and be inspired by this extraordinary community of leaders, lawyers, and agents of change. Thank you for everything you do for HLS. Continue Reading About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.