Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Faculty Profiles Cass R. Sunstein Faculty Office of Academic Affairs Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Advanced Search scholarship by Cass R. Sunstein Robert Walmsley University Professor csunstei@law.harvard.edu Areeda 225 Assistant: Brenda Bee / 617-496-1764 Curriculum Vitae (PDF) About Publications Courses Biography Cass R. Sunstein is currently the Robert Walmsley University Professor at Harvard. He is the founder and director of the Program on Behavioral Economics and Public Policy at Harvard Law School. In 2018, he received the Holberg Prize from the government of Norway, sometimes described as the equivalent of the Nobel Prize for law and the humanities. In 2020, the World Health Organization appointed him as Chair of its technical advisory group on Behavioural Insights and Sciences for Health. From 2009 to 2012, he was Administrator of the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, and after that, he served on the President's Review Board on Intelligence and Communications Technologies and on the Pentagon's Defense Innovation Board. Mr. Sunstein has testified before congressional committees on many subjects, and he has advised officials at the United Nations, the European Commission, the World Bank, and many nations on issues of law and public policy. He serves as an adviser to the Behavioural Insights Team in the United Kingdom. Mr. Sunstein is author of hundreds of articles and dozens of books, including Nudge: Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth, and Happiness (with Richard H. Thaler, 2008), Simpler: The Future of Government (2013), The Ethics of Influence (2015), #Republic (2017), Impeachment: A Citizen's Guide (2017), The Cost-Benefit Revolution (2018), On Freedom (2019), Conformity (2019), How Change Happens (2019), and Too Much Information (2020). He is now working on a variety of projects involving the regulatory state, "sludge" (defined to include paperwork and similar burdens), fake news, and freedom of speech. Areas of Interest Administrative Law Constitutional Law Environmental Law and Policy Employment Law Law and Economics: Behavioral Law and Economics Labor Law Displaying X-Y of 725 results 25/page 50/page 100/page   (Page X of Y) Cass R. Sunstein, The Ethics of Influence: Government in the Age of Behavioral Science (Cambridge Univ. Press 2016). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics , Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Administrative Law & Agencies , Legal Ethics Links:  Type: Book Abstract "In recent years, 'nudge units' or 'behavioral insights teams' have been created in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, and other nations. All over the world, public officials are using the behavioral sciences to protect the environment, promote employment and economic growth, reduce poverty, and increase national security. In this book, Cass R. Sunstein, the eminent legal scholar and best-selling co-author of Nudge (2008), breaks new ground with a deep yet highly readable investigation into the ethical issues surrounding nudges, choice architecture, and mandates, addressing such issues as welfare, autonomy, self-government, dignity, manipulation, and the constraints and responsibilities of an ethical state. Complementing the ethical discussion, The Ethics of Influence: Government in the Age of Behavioral Science contains a wealth of new data on people's attitudes towards a broad range of nudges, choice architecture, and mandates." --Publisher Cass R. Sunstein, The World According to Star Wars (Harper Collins 2016). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Humanities Links:  Type: Book Abstract "In this fun, erudite, and often moving book, Cass R. Sunstein explores the lessons of Star Wars as they relate to childhood, fathers, the Dark Side, rebellion, and redemption. As it turns out, Star Wars also has a lot to teach us about constitutional law, economics, and political uprisings. Sunstein tells the story of the films’ wildly unanticipated success and explores why some things succeed while others fail. Ultimately, Sunstein argues, Star Wars is about freedom of choice and our never-ending ability to make the right decision when the chips are down. Written with buoyant prose and considerable heart, The World According to Star Wars shines a bright new light on the most beloved story of our time."--Adapted from dust jacket. Cass R. Sunstein & Richard H. Thaler, Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness (Yale Univ. Press 2008). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics Links:  Type: Book Sanjit Dhami & Cass R. Sunstein, Bounded Rationality: Heuristics, Judgment, and Public Policy (forthcoming 2022). Categories: Banking & Finance , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Economics , Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:  Type: Book Abstract Bounded rationality recognizes that human behavior departs from the perfect rationality assumed by neoclassical economics. In this book, Sanjit Dhami and Cass Sunstein explore the foundations of bounded rationality and consider the implications of this approach for public policy and law, in particular for questions about choice, welfare, and freedom. The authors, both recognized as experts in the field, cover a wide range of empirical findings and assess theoretical work that attempts to explain those findings. Their presentation is comprehensive, coherent, and lucid, with even the most technical material explained accessibly. They not only offer observations and commentary on the existing literature but also explore new insights, ideas, and connections. After examining the traditional neoclassical framework, which they refer to as the Bayesian rationality approach (BRA), and its empirical issues, Dhami and Sunstein offer a detailed account of bounded rationality and how it can be incorporated into the social and behavioral sciences. They also discuss a set of models of heuristics-based choice and the philosophical foundations of behavioral economics. Finally, they examine libertarian paternalism and its strategies of “nudges.” Annie Duke & Cass R. Sunstein, Freerolls and binds: making policy when information is missing, 6 Behav. Pub. Pol'y 261 (2022). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Article Abstract When policymakers focus on costs and benefits, they often find that hard questions become easy – as, for example, when the benefits clearly exceed the costs, or when the costs clearly exceed the benefits. In some cases, however, benefits or costs are difficult to quantify, perhaps because of limitations in scientific knowledge. In extreme cases, policymakers are proceeding in circumstances of uncertainty rather than risk, in the sense that they cannot assign probabilities to various outcomes. We suggest that in difficult cases in which important information is absent, it is useful for policymakers to consider a concept from poker: “freerolls.” A freeroll exists when choosers can lose nothing from selecting an option but stand to gain something (whose magnitude may itself be unknown). In some cases, people display “freeroll neglect.” In terms of social justice, John Rawls’ defense of the difference principle is grounded in the idea that behind the veil of ignorance, choosers have a freeroll. In terms of regulatory policy, one of the most promising defenses of the Precautionary Principle sees it as a kind of freeroll. Some responses to climate change, pandemics, and financial crises can be seen as near-freerolls. Freerolls and near-freerolls must be distinguished from cases involving cumulatively high costs and also from faux freerolls, which can be found when the costs of an option are real and significant, but not visible. “Binds” are the mirror image of freerolls; they involve options from which people are guaranteed to lose something (of uncertain magnitude). Some regulatory options are binds, and there are faux binds as well. Cass R. Sunstein, The War on Bureaucratic Sludge, Saturday Evening Post, Mar. 22, 2022. Categories: Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: News Abstract The red tape we all must deal with is more than an inconvenience. It wastes time, money, and energy and ultimately robs us of our freedom. Cass R. Sunstein, Injury In Fact, Transformed, (Mar. 11, 2022). Categories: Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Supreme Court of the United States , Congress & Legislation Links:  Type: Other Abstract Over the course of the last half-century, the “injury in fact” test has been radically transformed. It began as a bold and essentially lawless effort, led by Justice William O. Douglas, to expand the category of persons entitled to bring suit, and in the process to open federal courts to a wide range of people, including the beneficiaries of regulatory statutes. It is now achieving precisely the opposite goal: The Court has sharply limited the category of legally cognizable “injuries,” requiring them to be identical or akin to those recognized at the common law (or by the Constitution itself). The result is severely to restrict Congress’ power to grant standing to regulatory beneficiaries, by creating constitutional limits on its authority to create new rights and to allow people to sue to protect those rights. Ironically, the Court has restricted Congress’ power by developing public law principles on private law foundations – foundations that public law was specifically meant to repudiate. The transformation is an effort to invent a tradition; the new understanding of standing (and of Articles III and II) has no roots in the Constitution, and it is disconnected from standard sources of constitutional law. The best path forward is for the Court to make it clear that while traditionally recognized harms are a legitimate basis for standing, Congress has broad authority to create rights, and causes of action, lacking clear analogs at common law. Article III does not enact Mr. William Prosser’s Law of Torts. Cass R. Sunstein, Governing by Algorithm? No Noise and (Potentially) Less Bias, 71 Duke L. J. 1175 (2022). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Discrimination , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:    Type: Article Abstract As intuitive statisticians, human beings suffer from identifiable biases, cognitive and otherwise. Human beings can also be “noisy,” in the sense that their judgments show unwanted variability. As a result, public institutions, including those that consist of administrative prosecutors and adjudicators, can be biased, noisy, or both. Both bias and noise produce errors. Algorithms eliminate noise, and that is important; to the extent that they do so, they prevent unequal treatment and reduce errors. In addition, algorithms do not use mental short-cuts; they rely on statistical predictors, which means that they can counteract or even eliminate cognitive biases. At the same time, the use of algorithms, by administrative agencies, raises many legitimate questions and doubts. Among other things, they can encode or perpetuate discrimination, perhaps because their inputs are based on discrimination, perhaps because what they are asked to predict is infected by discrimination. But if the goal is to eliminate discrimination, properly constructed algorithms nonetheless have a great deal of promise for administrative agencies. Stephen G. Breyer, Richard B. Stewart, Cass R. Sunstein, Adrian Vermeule & Michael Herz, Administrative Law and Regulatory Policy: Problems, Text, and Cases (9th ed., 2022). Categories: Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Book Abstract The ninth edition of this classic casebook Administrative Law and Regulatory Policy: Problems, Text, and Cases is streamlined and updated while retaining the previous editions’ rigor, comprehensiveness, and contextual approach. Robert Böhm et al., Crowdsourcing interventions to promote uptake of COVID-19 booster vaccines, PsyArXiv (Feb. 10, 2022). Categories: Health Care Sub-Categories: Food & Drug Law Links:  Type: Other Abstract We apply a novel crowdsourcing approach to provide rapid insights on the most promising interventions to promote uptake of COVID-19 booster vaccines. In the first stage, international experts proposed 46 unique interventions. To reduce noise and potential bias, in the second stage, experts and representative general population samples from the UK and the US rated the proposed interventions on several criteria, including expected effectiveness and acceptability. Sanctions were evaluated as potentially most effective but least accepted. Interventions that received the most positive evaluations regarding both effectiveness and acceptability across evaluation groups were a day off after getting vaccinated, financial incentives, tax benefits, benefit campaigns, and mobile vaccination teams. The results provide useful insights to help governments in their decision which interventions to implement. Eric A. Posner & Cass R. Sunstein, Antitrust and Inequality (Feb. 1, 2022). Categories: Corporate Law & Securities , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Antitrust & Competition Law , Social Welfare Law Links:    Type: Other Abstract In its current form, antitrust law is often said to advance consumer welfare and to disregard economic inequality. But with the right priority-setting and other modest reforms, efforts to increase consumer welfare might simultaneously reduce economic inequality. Because monopoly and monopsony benefit shareholders at the expense of workers and consumers, ideal enforcement of antitrust law should redistribute resources from shareholders to workers and consumers. Antitrust enforcement agencies seeking to reduce inequality might adjust their priorities and target markets that are disproportionately important for low-income people. We also suggest that antitrust law could, with little violence, be turned toward advancing consumer welfare (in the sense of utility) rather than consumer surplus. Agriculture and health care would be good places to start; food and medicine compose a larger share of the budget of low-income people than of others, and these goods are essential to basic well-being. Regulators should also give priority to labor markets, especially labor markets in which lower-income people participate, and especially where pay gaps based on race or gender are large. In some cases, it is also appropriate to consider sacrificing economic efficiency for distributional goals by introducing distributional weights into antitrust analysis; doing so can increase social welfare. Cass R. Sunstein, Beatlemania, J. Beatles Studies (forthcoming 2022). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:    Type: Article Abstract Why did the Beatles become a worldwide sensation? Why do some cultural products succeed and others fail? Why are some musicians, poets, and novels,, unsuccessful or unknown in their lifetimes, iconic figures decades or generation after their deaths? Why are success and failure so unpredictable? On one view, the simplest and most general explanation is best, and it points to quality, appropriately measured: success is a result of quality, and the Beatles succeeded because of the sheer quality of their music. On another view, social influences are critical: timely enthusiasm or timely indifference can make the difference for all, including the Beatles, leading extraordinary books, movies, and songs to fail even if they are indistinguishable in quality from those that succeed. Informational cascades are often necessary for spectacular success; in some cases, they are both necessary and sufficient. For those who emphasize social influences and informational cascades, success and failure are not inevitable; they depend on seemingly small or serendipitous factors. History is only run once, so this proposition is difficult to prove. There is no question that the success of the Beatles, and the rise of Beatlemania, involved an informational cascade. But whether and in what sense that success was a product of serendipity, or contingent on factors that are elusive and perhaps even lost to history, is essentially unanswerable. If ‘Love Me Do’ had not been a hit, it is not entirely unfair to wonder whether the Beatles would have enjoyed anything like the spectacular success they had. We may doubt that in a counterfactual world, there might have been Kinksmania or Holliesmania, but research on ‘Lost Einsteins’ suggests that it might be reckless to rule out the possibility that some other band, obscure or unknown, might have taken the place of the Beatles. Cass R. Sunstein, Foreword: On the Imperative of Adapting to Climate Change, Yale J. on Regul. (forthcoming 2022). Categories: Environmental Law Sub-Categories: Climate Change Links:    Type: Article Abstract With respect to climate change, the principal focus of both research and public policy has been on mitigation – on reducing greenhouse gas emissions so as to reduce anticipated adverse effects. But it is increasingly clear that adaptation must also be a high priority. Climate-related risks – including flooding, extreme heat, wildfires, droughts, and hurricanes – are quite serious and are likely to grow over time. Creative and not-so-creative measures to nudge, incentivize, and mandate adaptation may well have benefits far in excess of costs – and may, in fact, deliver higher net benefits than some efforts at mitigation. Because significant climate change is now occurring, and will almost certainly create increasing risks over time, adaptation is essential. It must be carefully assessed with attention to (a) its aggregate effects on social welfare and (b) its distributional impacts. Cost-benefit analysis can much help with (a), but it can run into serious concerns, not only because of (b), but also because of epistemic gaps and because of its failure, in some cases, adequately to capture welfare effects. Cass R. Sunstein, On the Limited Policy Relevance of Evolutionary Explanations, Behav. Pub. Pol'y (forthcoming 2022). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics Links:    Type: Article Abstract Evolutionary explanations for behavioral findings are often both fascinating and plausible. But even so, they do not establish that people are acting rationally, that they are not making mistakes, or that their decisions are promoting their welfare. For example, present bias, optimistic overconfidence, and use of the availability heuristic can produce terrible mistakes and serious welfare losses, and this is so even if they have evolutionary foundations. There might well be evolutionary explanations for certain kinds of in-group favoritism, and also for certain male attitudes and actions toward women, and also for human mistreatment of and cruelty toward nonhuman animals. But those explanations would not justify anything at all. It is not clear that in Darwinia (a nation in which departures from perfect rationality have an evolutionary explanation), policymakers should behave very differently from in Durkheimia (a nation in which departures from perfect rationality have a cultural explanation). Cass R. Sunstein, On the Evaluation of Behaviorally Informed Interventions, (Dec. 1, 2021). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Social Welfare Law , Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:    Type: Other Abstract In evaluating behaviorally informed interventions, policymakers should consider both their welfare effects (including, for example, their potentially negative effects on subjective well-being) and their effects on distributive justice (including, for example, their potentially negative effects on those at the bottom of the economic ladder). Four specific questions are relevant: (1) What are the aggregate effects on social welfare? For purposes of evaluation, it is tempting to focus on increases in participation rates or on cost-effectiveness. The welfare question is much more important, though it raises serious normative, conceptual, and empirical challenges. (2) Who is likely to be helped and who is likely to be hurt? This is a plea for a distributional analysis of the effects of behaviorally informed interventions. (3) What are the expected effects on the least well-off? It is important to ask whether the relevant interventions help or hurt those who have the least, defined in terms of welfare, a point that is connected with “prioritarianism.” (4) Do the benefits to those who are helped exceed the costs to those who are hurt? If the gainers gain more than the losers lose, we have a strong point in favor of the intervention. But the point might not be decisive if, for example, the gainers are well-off to begin with, and the losers are not. The four questions are meant as an objection to efforts to evaluate behaviorally informed interventions in terms of (for example) effects on participation rates; as a plea for analysis of the distributive effects of such interventions; and as a plea for specification and investigation of their welfare effects. Cass R. Sunstein, 'Get Drunk'!: Baudelaire's Defiant Liberalism, (Nov. 12, 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Humanities , Law & Political Theory , Legal Theory & Philosophy Links:    Type: Other Abstract We live in a period in which liberalism is under considerable pressure.Can poems be liberal? Baudelaire’s Enivrez-Vous captures something essential about the most appealing forms of liberalism, and about its underlying spirit (captured, in different ways, by John Stuart Mill, Walt Whitman, and Bob Dylan as well): its insistence on freedom of choice, on the diversity of tastes and preferences, and on human agency. The poem is liberal in its exuberance – its pleasure in its own edginess, its defiance, its sheer rebelliousness, its sense of mischief, its implicit laughter, its love of life and what it has to offer. It is the opposite of dutiful. It is far more exuberant than Mill’s On Liberty, but it is exuberant in the same way. Kate Laffan, Cass Sunstein & Paul Dolan, Facing It: Assessing the Immediate Emotional Impacts of Calorie Labelling Using Automatic Facial Coding, Behav. Pub. Pol'y 1 (2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:  Type: Article Abstract Although there has been a proliferation of research and policy work into how nudges shape people's behaviour, most studies stop far short of consumer welfare analysis. In the current work, we critically reflect on recent efforts to provide insights into the consumer welfare impact of nudges using willingness to pay and subjective well-being reports and explore an unobtrusive approach that can speak to the immediate emotional impacts of a nudge: automatic facial expression coding. In an exploratory lab study, we use facial expression coding to assess the short-run emotional impact of being presented with calorie information about a popcorn snack in the context of a stylised ‘Cinema experience’. The results of the study indicate that calorie information has heterogeneous impacts on people's likelihood of choosing the snack and on the emotions they experience during the moment of choice which varies based on their level of health-consciousness. The information does not, however, affect the emotions people go on to experience while viewing movie clips, suggesting that the emotional effects of the information are short-lived. We conclude by emphasising the potential of automatic facial expression coding to provide new insights into the immediate emotional impacts of nudges and calling for further research into this promising technique. Cass R. Sunstein, The Distributional Effects of Nudges, 6 Nature Hum. Behav. 9 (2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics Links:  Type: Article Abstract Nudges are tools to achieve behavioural change. To evaluate nudges, it is essential to consider not only their overall welfare effects but also their distributional effects. Some nudges will not help, and might hurt, identifiable groups. More targeted, personalized nudging may be needed to maximize social welfare and promote distributive justice. Tali Sharot, Max Rollwage, Cass R. Sunstein & Stephen Fleming, Why and when beliefs change: A multi-attribute value-based decision problem, (Nov. 4, 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:  Type: Other Abstract Why people do or do not change their beliefs has been a long-standing puzzle. Sometimes people hold onto false beliefs despite ample contradictory evidence; sometimes they change their beliefs without sufficient reason. Here, we propose that the utility of a belief is derived from the potential outcomes of holding it. Outcomes can be internal (e.g., positive/negative feelings) or external (e.g., material gain/loss), and only some are dependent on belief accuracy. Belief change can then be understood as an economic transaction, in which the multidimensional utility of the old belief is compared against that of the new belief. Change will occur when potential outcomes alter across attributes, for example due to changing environments, or when certain outcomes are made more or less salient. Cornelia Betsch, Philipp Sprengholz & Cass R. Sunstein, Health, Technology, and Genre Preferences: A Preliminary Investigation, (Oct. 26, 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:   Type: Other Abstract Cultivation theory assumes that frequent exposure to certain media can lead people to perceive the real world through the lens of their preferred media. This led to the research question of whether fans of science fiction who are accustomed to seeing problem solving based on science and technology are prone to accept science- and technology-based interventions to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. An exploratory survey and a preregistered experiment (N = 1,983) found that participants who liked science fiction were more likely to trust science and to accept protective measures against COVID-19. This effect was especially visible for a Corona mobile-phone app but also extended to other behaviors. The effect was stronger for those whose genre preference was activated just before the behavioral intentions were assessed. Harnessing these preferences could improve health communication and may be useful in solving health crises, such as pandemics or the climate crisis. Cass R. Sunstein, Analogical Reasoning, (Oct. 18, 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Legal Theory & Philosophy Links:    Type: Other Abstract In law, the process of analogical reasoning appears to work in five simple steps. (1) Some fact pattern A—the “source” case—has certain characteristics; call them x, y, and z. (2) Fact pattern B—the “target” case—has characteristics x, y, and q, or characteristics x, y, z, and q. (3) A is treated a certain way in law. (4) Some principle or rule, announced, created, or discovered in the process of thinking through A, B, and their interrelations, explains why A is treated the way that it is. (5) Because of what it shares in common with A, B should be treated the same way. It is covered by the same principle. It should be clear that the crucial step, and the most difficult, is (4). Often analogical reasoning works through the use of incompletely theorized agreements, making (4) tractable. Some of the disputes about analogical reasoning reflect contests between Burkean and Benthamite conceptions of law. Cass R. Sunstein, Voluntary Agreements, 28 J. Econ. Methodology 401 (2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics , Banking & Finance Sub-Categories: Contracts , Economics , Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Legal Theory & Philosophy , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Article Abstract In philosophy, economics, and law, the idea of voluntary agreements plays a central role. It orients contractarian approaches to political legitimacy. It also helps support the claim that outsiders, and especially the state, should not interfere with private contracts. But contractarianism in political philosophy stands (or falls) on altogether different grounds from enthusiasm for contractual ordering in economics and law. When participants in voluntary agreements lack information or suffer from behavioral biases (including adaptive preferences), there is reason to help them, potentially through mandates and bans. In philosophy, the idea of contractarianism can help lead to instructive thought experiments about what justice requires, as with John Rawls’ use of the veil of ignorance and the original position; it should not be taken as a basis for theories of legitimacy that rest on actual agreements among actual groups, in which some people have more information and power than others, and in which malice and self-interest may lead to distortions. Cass R. Sunstein, A History of Medical Innovation That Doesn’t Ignore the Side Effects, N.Y. Times, Oct. 25, 2021. Categories: Health Care Sub-Categories: Food & Drug Law Links:  Type: News Abstract In “You Bet Your Life,” Paul A. Offit looks at advances that have prolonged life, from chemotherapy to the Covid vaccine, and the difficult, even deadly, paths to arrive at them. Lucia A. Reisch & Cass R. Sunstein, Plant-Based By Default, 4 One Earth 1205 (2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Environmental Law , Health Care Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Climate Change , Food & Drug Law Links:  Type: Article Abstract To mitigate climate change, food systems must reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. For consumers, this means switching to more plant-based diets and wasting less food. A behaviorally informed policy employing nudges—educative and architectural—can be a cornerstone. Plant-based defaults promise large reduction effects while maintaining freedom of choice. Cass R. Sunstein, "Come On, Man!" On Choice, Welfare, and Hayekian Behavioral Economics, Behav, Pub. Pol'y 1 (2021). Categories: Banking & Finance , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Article Abstract With respect to the views of dead thinkers, answers to many particular questions are often interpretive in Ronald Dworkin’s sense: such answers must attempt (1) to fit the materials to be interpreted and (2) to justify them, that is, to put them in the best constructive light. What looks like (1), or what purports to be (1), is often (2). That is, when a follower of Kant urges that “Kant would say x,” or that “Kantianism entails y,” the goal is to make the best constructive sense of Kant and Kantianism, not merely to follow something that Kant actually said. An approach to behavioral economics cannot claim to be Hayekian if it is rooted in enthusiasm for the abilities of planners to set prices and quantities, or if it sees the price system as a jumble of mistakes and errors. But within a not-so-narrow range, a variety of freedom-preserving approaches, alert to the epistemic limits of planners, can fairly claim to be Hayekian. Hayekian behavioral economics, I suggest, is an approach that (1) recognizes the importance and pervasiveness of individual errors, (2) emphasizes the epistemic limits of planners, (3) builds on individual choices rather than planner preferences, and (4) gives authority to choices made under epistemically favorable conditions, in which informational deficits and behavioral biases are least likely to be at work. The key step, of course, is (4). If it is properly elaborated, the resulting approach deserves respect, even if some of us, including the present author, would not entirely embrace it. In defending that proposition, the present essay responds to some critical remarks by Robert Sugden, including his resort to “explainawaytions” (Matthew Rabin’s term) for behavioral findings. Cass R. Sunstein, The Arithmetic of Climate Change, (Sept. 6, 2021). Categories: Environmental Law Sub-Categories: Climate Change Links:    Type: Other Abstract In its ideal form, arbitrariness review is an instrument for promoting “deliberative democracy” – a system that combines reason-giving with political accountability. Under arbitrariness review in its current form, courts tend to embrace the “hard look doctrine,” which has a procedural component, requiring agencies to offer detailed justifications, and also a substantive component, in which courts assess the reasonableness of the agencies’ choices on the merits. These are serious constraints on the executive branch, and they also reduce the risk of large-scale instability in government, in which scientific and economic judgments are overridden by political considerations. With respect to regulatory policy, it is not enough to say that “elections have consequences.” For climate change in particular, the “social cost of carbon,” or more broadly the “social cost of greenhouse gases,” is sometimes described as “the most important number you’ve never heard of.” A key reason is that within the executive branch, the stringency of regulation of greenhouse gases emissions often depends on that number. Another reason is that the social cost of carbon can and should play a role in determining the content of other kinds of initiatives, such as a carbon tax. In the United States, the relevant numbers were challenged in court under the administrations of Barack Obama (where they were upheld) and Donald Trump (where they were struck down). The litigation raises fundamental questions about the role of science, economics, and politics in judicial review of agency action, and about the relationship between courts and the administrative state. With respect to the social cost of carbon: (1) A decision to use the global number, as opposed to the domestic number, would be straightforward to defend against an arbitrariness challenge; a decision to use the domestic number, as opposed to the global number, would be difficult to defend against an arbitrariness challenge. (2) A decision to use a low discount rate, such as two percent, would be straightforward to defend against an arbitrariness challenge; a decision to use a high discount rate, such as seven percent, would be exceedingly difficult to defend against an arbitrariness challenge. (3) A wide range of decisions – involving, for example, climate sensitivity and the damage function -- raise difficult questions in science and economics; they should be straightforward to defend against an arbitrariness challenge, but only if they follow from a reasoned justification. (4) Approaches that take account of equity – including “prioritarianism” – should be defensible against an arbitrariness challenge, as should be a refusal to adopt such approaches, but here again, a reasoned justification is required. (5) A decision to “back out” a social cost of carbon, from some specific target, would be challenging to defend against an arbitrariness challenge. A general lesson, with broader implications, is that judicial review of the social cost of carbon should (and likely will) involve a procedural hard look, not a substantive hard look. A procedural hard look is important to defend against failures of both deliberation and democracy; a substantive hard look would strain judicial capacities. Cass R. Sunstein, Our Anti-Korematsu, 1 Am. J. L. & Equal. 221 (2021). Categories: Constitutional Law , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Discrimination & Civil Rights , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Religion , Religious Rights , Religion & Law , Supreme Court of the United States Links:  Type: Article Cass R. Sunstein, Sludge: What Stops Us from Getting Things Done and What to Do About It (2021). Categories: Government & Politics , Constitutional Law Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies , Elections & Voting Links:  Type: Book Abstract How we became so burdened by red tape and unnecessary paperwork, and why we must do better. We’ve all had to fight our way through administrative sludge–filling out complicated online forms, mailing in paperwork, standing in line at the motor vehicle registry. This kind of red tape is a nuisance, but, as Cass Sunstein shows in Sludge, it can also also impair health, reduce growth, entrench poverty, and exacerbate inequality. Confronted by sludge, people just give up–and lose a promised outcome: a visa, a job, a permit, an educational opportunity, necessary medical help. In this lively and entertaining look at the terribleness of sludge, Sunstein explains what we can do to reduce it. Because of sludge, Sunstein, explains, too many people don’t receive benefits to which they are entitled. Sludge even prevents many people from exercising their constitutional rights–when, for example, barriers to voting in an election are too high. (A Sludge Reduction Act would be a Voting Rights Act.) Sunstein takes readers on a tour of the not-so-wonderful world of sludge, describes justifications for certain kinds of sludge, and proposes "Sludge Audits" as a way to measure the effects of sludge. On balance, Sunstein argues, sludge infringes on human dignity, making people feel that their time and even their lives don’t matter. We must do better. Cass R. Sunstein, Climate Change Cosmopolitanism, (Aug. 12, 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Environmental Law Sub-Categories: Law & Economics , Climate Change Links:    Type: Other Abstract If one nation damages another, what are its obligations? This question can be approached and understood in diverse ways, but it is concretized in debates over the social cost of carbon, which is sometimes described as the linchpin of national climate policy. The social cost of carbon, meant to capture the damage done by a ton of carbon emissions, helps to determine the stringency of regulations in many domains, including emissions limits on motor vehicles and on stationary sources. In determining the social cost of carbon, agencies must decide whether to use the global number (as chosen by Presidents Barack Obama and Joe Biden) or instead the domestic number (as chosen by President Donald Trump). Use of the global number should be seen as a form of climate change cosmopolitanism, whether the grounding is moral or otherwise. There are four central arguments in favor of using the global figure. (1) The epistemic argument: Experts do not know a great deal about the purely domestic harms from climate change, which makes it impossible to generate a purely domestic number. (2) The interconnectedness argument: Harms done by domestic emissions are not limited to those done by the incremental increase in temperatures in the United States; they include harms to U.S. citizens living abroad and harms to U.S. citizens and interests that come from the cascading effects of harm done to foreigners (including governments, companies, and individuals), which are ultimately felt in the United States. (3) The moral cosmopolitan argument: In deciding on the scope of its regulations, the United States should account of the harms it does to non-Americans. (4) The prisoner’s dilemma argument: If all nations used a domestic figure, all nations would lose; a successful approach to the climate problem requires nations to treat greenhouse gas emissions as a global, and not merely domestic, externality. Neither the epistemic argument nor the incompleteness argument justifies choice of the global number. The moral cosmopolitan and prisoner’s dilemma arguments stand on much stronger grounds. Cass R. Sunstein, Arbitrariness Review (With Special Reference to the Social Cost of Carbon), (July 6, 2021). Categories: Government & Politics , Environmental Law Sub-Categories: Climate Change , Administrative Law & Agencies , Executive Office Links:    Type: Other Abstract In its ideal form, arbitrariness review is an instrument for promoting “deliberative democracy” – a system that combines reason-giving with political accountability. Under arbitrariness review in its current form, courts tend to embrace the “hard look doctrine,” which has a procedural component, requiring agencies to offer detailed justifications, and also a substantive component, in which courts assess the reasonableness of the agencies’ choices on the merits. These are serious constraints on the executive branch, and they also reduce the risk of large-scale instability in government, in which scientific and economic judgments are overridden by political considerations. With respect to regulatory policy, it is not enough to say that “elections have consequences.” For climate change in particular, the “social cost of carbon,” or more broadly the “social cost of carbon,” is sometimes described as “the most important number you’ve never heard of.” A key reason is that within the executive branch, the stringency of regulation of greenhouse gases emissions often depends on that number. Another reason is that the social cost of carbon can and should play a role in determining the content of other kinds of initiatives, such as a carbon tax. In the United States, the relevant numbers were challenged in court under the administrations of Barack Obama (where they were upheld) and Donald Trump (where they were struck down). The litigation raises fundamental questions about the role of science, economics, and politics in judicial review of agency action, and about the relationship between courts and the administrative state. With respect to the social cost of carbon: (1) A decision to use the domestic number, as opposed to the global number, would be difficult to defend against an arbitrariness challenge; a decision to use the global number, as opposed to the domestic number, would be straightforward to defend against an arbitrariness challenge. (2) A decision to use a low discount rate, such as two percent, would be straightforward to defend against an arbitrariness challenge; a decision to use a high discount rate, such as seven percent, would be exceedingly difficult to defend against an arbitrariness challenge. (3) A decision to “back out” a social cost of carbon, from some specific target, would be challenging to defend against an arbitrariness challenge. (4) A wide range of decisions – involving, for example, climate sensitivity and the damage function -- raise difficult questions in science and economics; they should be straightforward to defend against an arbitrariness challenge, but only if they follow from a reasoned justification. (5) Approaches that take account of equity – including “prioritarianism” – should be defensible against an arbitrariness challenge, as should be a refusal to adopt such approaches, but here again, a reasoned justification is required. A general lesson, with broader implications, is that judicial review of the social cost of carbon should (and likely will) involve a procedural hard look, not a substantive hard look. A procedural hard look is important to defend against failures of both deliberation and democracy; a substantive hard look would strain judicial capacities. Cass R. Sunstein, Manipulation As Theft, (Harv. Pub. L. Working Paper No. 21-30, July 6, 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:    Type: Other Abstract Should there be a right not to be manipulated? What kind of right? On Kantian grounds, manipulation, lies, and paternalistic coercion are moral wrongs, and for similar reasons; they deprive people of agency, insult their dignity, and fail to respect personal autonomy. On welfarist grounds, manipulation, lies, and paternalistic coercion share a different characteristic; they displace the choices of those whose lives are directly at stake, and who are likely to have epistemic advantages, with the choices of outsiders, who are likely to lack critical information. Kantians and welfarists should be prepared to endorse a (moral) right not to be manipulated, though on very different grounds. The moral prohibition on manipulation, like the moral prohibition on lies, should run against officials and regulators, not only against private institutions. At the same time, the creation of a legal right not to be manipulated raises hard questions, in part because of definitional challenges; there is a serious risk of vagueness and a serious risk of overbreadth. (Lies, as such, are not against the law, and the same is true of unkindness, inconsiderateness, and even cruelty.) With welfarist considerations in mind, it is probably best to start by prohibiting particular practices, while emphasizing that they are forms of manipulation and may not count as fraud. The basic goal should be to build on the claim that in certain cases, manipulation is a form of theft; the law should forbid theft, whether it occurs through force, lies, or manipulation. Some manipulators are thieves. Lucia A. Reisch, Cass R. Sunstein & Micha Kaiser, What Do People Want to Know? Information Avoidance and Food Policy Implications, 102 Food Pol'y (2021). Categories: International, Foreign & Comparative Law , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Empirical Legal Studies , Comparative Law Links:  Type: Article Abstract What information would people like to have? What information would they prefer to avoid? How does the provision of information bear on welfare? Representative surveys in eleven nations find that substantial percentages of people do not want to receive information even when it bears on health, sustainability, and consumer welfare. People’s willingness to pay for information, contingent on their wanting it, is mostly higher than people’s willingness to pay not to receive information, contingent on their not wanting it. We develop a model and estimate the welfare effects. We find substantial benefits and costs, with the former outweighing the latter. Cass R. Sunstein, 'It's A Cookbook': Animal Welfare Cascades, (June 21, 2021). Categories: Environmental Law Sub-Categories: Animal Law Links:    Type: Other Abstract Informational and reputational cascades often arise in the presence of four factors: (1) preference falsification; (2) diverse thresholds; (3) social interactions; and (4) group polarization. In the context of animal welfare, cascades have often occurred, and more consequential ones are possible. First: In this domain, preference falsification has run and is running rampant. Those who care about animal welfare, or are inclined to want to say or do something about it, often silence themselves. They know that if they speak or act, they might incur social disapproval or worse. Second: People have different thresholds for disclosing their views or for taking action. With respect to animal welfare, some people really will speak out or act, even if no one else does. Others need someone to follow – but only one. Still others need two, or three, or a hundred, or more. Third: Social interactions are and continue to be crucial to the movement for animal welfare. Who is seeing whom? When? Who is talking to whom? Are visible people speaking and acting in ways that support animal welfare? Are they credible? With whom? Fourth: In many times and places, believers in animal rights, animal welfare, or both have created communities of like-minded people. These communities can be highly effective. They create a commitment to a belief that might have been held tentatively. They make that belief salient, potentially part of people’s identity. They increase confidence and unity. Cass R. Sunstein, What Is Normal, (Harv. Pub. L. Working Paper No. 21-24, June 21, 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Civil Rights , Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:    Type: Other Abstract Some of our judgments are unstable, in the sense that they are an artifact of, or endogenous to, what else we see. This is true of sensory perception: Whether an object counts as blue or purple depends on what other objects surround it. It is also true for ethical judgments: Whether conduct counts as unethical depends on what other conduct is on people’s viewscreens. There are plausible evolutionary explanations for these findings. As behavior in general regresses, actions that were previously seen as bad or as terrible may come to be seen as fine or mildly bad. Call this “opprobrium contraction.” As behavior in general improves, actions that were previously seen as fine or as mildly bad may come to seem bad or terrible. Call this “opprobrium expansion.” Because law has a signaling function, it can heighten or diminish these phenomena. Cass R. Sunstein, What Price Is Right?, 68 N.Y. Rev. (June 10, 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Legal Theory & Philosophy Links:  Type: Article Abstract Both government regulators and private companies regularly assign a monetary value to human lives. A new book argues that the price is too low, and can entrench inequalities. Cass R. Sunstein, There Are Two “Major Question” Doctrines, 73 Admin. L. Rev. 475 (2021). Categories: Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies , Congress & Legislation , Judges & Jurisprudence , Statutory Interpretation , Supreme Court of the United States Links:  Type: Article Abstract The Supreme Court is conspicuously uneasy about its Chevron framework, which requires courts to defer to agency interpretations of law, so long as those interpretations are “reasonable.” One of the principal manifestations of its uneasiness is the “major question” doctrine, which makes Chevron inapplicable to questions of great “economic and political significance.” But the major question doctrine is actually two separate doctrines. The weak version is a kind of “Chevron carve-out,” meant to ensure that courts exercise independent judgment, and so do not defer to agencies, with respect to the meaning of statutes as applied to especially important questions. By contrast, the strong version flatly prohibits agencies from interpreting ambiguous statutes so as to assert broad authority over the private sector. Both versions of the major question doctrine can claim a connection to the nondelegation doctrine. The arguments on behalf of the weak version are very different from the arguments on behalf of the strong version. Cass R. Sunstein, Zombie Chevron: A Celebration, 82 Ohio St. L.J. 565 (2021). Categories: Government & Politics , Banking & Finance Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies , Courts , Supreme Court of the United States Links:   Type: Article Abstract Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. v. National Resources Defense Council, Inc., the foundation for much of contemporary administrative law, is under siege. Several members of the Supreme Court have suggested that they would like to overrule it. Under standard principles of stare decisis, doing that would be a serious mistake. Even if Chevron was wrongly decided, overruling it would create an upheaval—a large shock to the legal system, producing a great deal of confusion, more conflicts in the courts of appeals, and far greater politicization of administrative law. For example: What would happen to the countless regulations that have been upheld under the Chevron framework? Would they be newly vulnerable? More fundamentally,, a predictable effect of overruling Chevron would be to ensure a far greater role for judicial policy preferences in statutory interpretation and far more common splits along ideological lines. There is also the question of reliance interests: For decades, Congress has legislated against the background set by Chevron, and the resulting statutes reflect an understanding that the Court’s framework will apply. Though the argument for overruling Chevron is unconvincing, its critics have legitimate concerns. Those concerns should be addressed by (1) insisting on a fully independent judicial role in deciding whether a statute is ambiguous at Step One; (2) invalidating arbitrary or unreasonable agency interpretations at Step Two; and (3) deploying canons of construction, including those that are designed to serve nondelegation functions and thus to cabin executive authority. The result would not quite be Zombie Chevron, but it would be close to that, and the most reasonable path forward. Daniel Kahneman, Olivier Sibony & Cass R. Sunstein, Noise: A Flaw in Human Judgment (2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics Links:  Type: Book Abstract Imagine that two doctors in the same city give different diagnoses to identical patients — or that two judges in the same courthouse give different sentences to people who have committed the same crime. Suppose that different food inspectors give different ratings to indistinguishable restaurants — or that when a company is handling customer complaints, the resolution depends on who happens to be handling the particular complaint. Now imagine that the same doctor, the same judge, the same inspector, or the same company official makes different decisions, depending on whether it is morning or afternoon, or Monday rather than Wednesday. These are examples of noise: variability in judgments that should be identical. In Noise, Daniel Kahneman, Olivier Sibony, and Cass R. Sunstein show how noise helps produce errors in many fields, including medicine, law, public health, economic forecasting, food safety, forensic science, bail, child protection, strategy, performance reviews and and personnel selection. And although noise can be found wherever people make judgments and decisions, individuals and organizations alike commonly ignore to its role in their judgments and in their actions. They show “noise neglect.” With a few simple remedies, people can reduce both noise and bias, and so make far better decisions. Packed with new ideas, and drawing on the same kind of diligent, insightful research that made Thinking, Fast and Slow and Nudge groundbreaking New York Times bestsellers, Noise explains how and why humans are so susceptible to noise in judgment — and what we can do about it. Daniel Kahneman, Olivier Sibony & Cass R. Sunstein, Bias Is a Big Problem. But So Is 'Noise.', N.Y. Times, May 15, 2021. Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights Sub-Categories: Discrimination Links:  Type: Other Daniel Kahneman, Olivier Sibony & Cass R. Sunstein, Good Moods Often Lead to Bad Judgments, Wall St. J., May 13, 2021. Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:  Type: Other Abstract Psychological research shows that judgment is surprisingly dependent on mood—and that being in a bad one has a silver lining. Cass R. Sunstein, Averting Catastrophe: Decision Theory for COVID-19, Climate Change, and Potential Disasters of All Kinds (2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Environmental Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Climate Change , Disaster Law , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Book Abstract The world is increasingly confronted with new challenges related to climate change, globalization, disease, and technology. Governments are faced with having to decide how much risk is worth taking, how much destruction and death can be tolerated, and how much money should be invested in the hopes of avoiding catastrophe. Lacking full information, should decision-makers focus on avoiding the most catastrophic outcomes? When should extreme measures be taken to prevent as much destruction as possible? Averting Catastrophe explores how governments ought to make decisions in times of imminent disaster. Cass R. Sunstein argues that using the “maximin rule,” which calls for choosing the approach that eliminates the worst of the worst-case scenarios, may be necessary when public officials lack important information, and when the worst-case scenario is too disastrous to contemplate. He underscores this argument by emphasizing the reality of “Knightian uncertainty,” found in circumstances in which it is not possible to assign probabilities to various outcomes. Sunstein brings foundational issues in decision theory in close contact with real problems in regulation, law, and daily life, and considers other potential future risks. At once an approachable introduction to decision-theory and a provocative argument for how governments ought to handle risk, Averting Catastrophe offers a definitive path forward in a world rife with uncertainty. Cass R. Sunstein, Interest-Group Theories of Regulation: A Skeptical Note (Apr. 18, 2021). Categories: Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Other Abstract As a rule, regulation is not acquired by “the industry,” and it is not designed and operated primarily for its benefit. The mechanisms behind the promulgation of regulations are multiple, and almost all of the time, it greatly matters whether regulators believe that regulations will, all things considered, have good consequences. In terms of understanding the sources of regulations, it would therefore be valuable to obtain more clarity about the sources of the beliefs of regulators — about what information they receive and find credible, and why. Cass R. Sunstein, Some Benefits and Costs of Cost-Benefit Analysis, Daedalus (forthcoming 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Law & Political Theory , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:    Type: Article Abstract The American administrative state has become a cost-benefit state, at least in the sense that prevailing executive orders require agencies to proceed only if the benefits justify the costs. Some people celebrate this development; others abhor it. For defenders of the cost-benefit state, the antonym of their ideal is, alternately, regulation based on dogmas, intuitions, pure expressivism, political preferences, or interest-group power. Seen most sympathetically, the focus on costs and benefits is a neo-Benthamite effort to attend to the real-world consequences of regulations, and it casts a pragmatic, skeptical light on modern objections to the administrative state, invoking public-choice theory and the supposed self-serving decisions of unelected bureaucrats. The focus on costs and benefits is also a valuable effort to go beyond coarse arguments, from both the right and the left, that tend to ask this unhelpful question: “Which side are you on?” In the future, however, there will be much better ways, which we might consider neo-Millian, to identify those consequences: (1) by relying less on unreliable ex ante projections and more on actual evaluations; (2) by focusing directly on welfare and not relying on imperfect proxies; and (3) by attending closely to distributional considerations – on who is helped and who is hurt. Cass R. Sunstein, This Is Not Normal: The Politics of Everyday Expectations (2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Political Theory , Politics & Political Theory Links:  Type: Book Abstract This sharp and engaging collection of essays by leading governmental scholar Cass R. Sunstein examines shifting understandings of what’s normal, and how those shifts account for the feminist movement, the civil rights movement, the rise of Adolf Hitler, the founding itself, the rise of gun rights, the response to COVID-19, and changing understandings of liberty. Prevailing norms include the principle of equal dignity, the idea of not treating the press as an enemy of the people, and the social unacceptability of open expressions of racial discrimination. But norms are very different from laws. They arise and change in response to individual and collective action. Exploring Nazism, #MeToo, the work of Alexander Hamilton and James Madison, constitutional amendments, pandemics, and the influence of Ayn Rand, Sunstein reveals how norms ultimately determine the shape of government in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere. Cass R. Sunstein, Green Defaults Can Combat Climate Change,Nature Hum. Behav. (Mar. 11, 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Environmental Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Climate Change , Energy & Utilities Law , Renewable Resources Law Links:  Type: Article Abstract Increasing the uptake of green energy use by households and businesses is a key step toward reducing environmental harm and combating climate change. In a new paper, Liebe et al.show that a non-monetary intervention can have massive effects on green energy consumption, leading to substantial reductions in carbon emissions. Cass R. Sunstein, Forward to The Behaviorally Informed Organization, at xi (Dilip Soman & Catherine Yeung eds., 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences Type: Book Cass R. Sunstein, Is Chevron Inconsistent with the APA? (Harvard Pub. L. Working Paper No. 21-08, 2021). Categories: Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies , Congress & Legislation , Statutory Interpretation , Courts , Judges & Jurisprudence Links:    Type: Other Abstract Many people believe that the Chevron framework, calling for judicial deference to reasonable agency interpretations of ambiguous statutory provisions, is fatally inconsistent with section 706 of the Administrative Procedure Act. An investigation of the historical context shows that this belief is incorrect. There is no indication that the provision was generally understood, in the 1940s and 1950s, to require independent judicial judgments about questions of law. Cass R. Sunstein, Liars: Falsehoods and Free Speech in an Age of Deception (2021). Categories: Constitutional Law , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Technology & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: First Amendment , Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Law & Political Theory , Administrative Law & Agencies , Communications Law , Networked Society Links:  Type: Book Abstract Lying has been with us from time immemorial. Yet today is different-and in many respects worse. All over the world, people are circulating damaging lies, and these falsehoods are amplified as never before through powerful social media platforms that reach billions. Liars are saying that COVID-19 is a hoax. They are claiming that vaccines cause autism. They are lying about public officials and about people who aspire to high office. They are lying about their friends and neighbors. They are trying to sell products on the basis of untruths. Unfriendly governments, including Russia, are circulating lies in order to destabilize other nations, including the United Kingdom and the United States. In the face of those problems, the renowned legal scholar Cass Sunstein probes the fundamental question of how we can deter lies while also protecting freedom of speech. To be sure, we cannot eliminate lying, nor should we try to do so. Sunstein shows why free societies must generally allow falsehoods and lies, which cannot and should not be excised from democratic debate. A main reason is that we cannot trust governments to make unbiased judgments about what counts as "fake news." However, governments should have the power to regulate specific kinds of falsehoods: those that genuinely endanger health, safety, and the capacity of the public to govern itself. Sunstein also suggests that private institutions, such as Facebook and Twitter, have a great deal of room to stop the spread of falsehoods, and they should be exercising their authority far more than they are now doing. As Sunstein contends, we are allowing far too many lies, including those that both threaten public health and undermine the foundations of democracy itself. Cass R. Sunstein, Most People Like Nudges-And Why That Matters, in Theories of Choice: The Social Science and the Law of Decision Making 73 (Stefan Grundmann & Philipp Hackey, eds., Oxford University Press 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Banking & Finance Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:  Type: Book Daniel B. Klein et al., What 21st-Century Works Will Merit a Close Reading in 2050?: Second Tranche of Responses, 18 Econ J. Watch 164 (2021). Categories: Banking & Finance Sub-Categories: Economics Links:  Type: Article Abstract Collected here are nineteen responses to the question, “What 21st-century works will merit a close reading in 2050?” Clarifications of that question are provided in a foreword. This tranche represents responses from authors with last names beginning L through Z. The nineteen responses presented here are from Mitchell Langbert, Andrés Marroquín, Steven G. Medema, Alberto Mingardi, Paul D. Mueller, Stephen R. Munzer, Evan W. Osborne, Justin T. Pickett, Rupert Read and Frank M. Scavelli, Hugh Rockoff, Kurt Schuler, Daniel J. Schwekendiek, Per Skedinger, E. Frank Stephenson, Scott Sumner, Cass R. Sunstein, Slaviša Tasić, Clifford F. Thies, and Richard E. Wagner. Responses from authors A through K were provided in the previous issue of this journal Cass R. Sunstein, On the Wrongness of Lies (Harv. Pub. L. Working Paper No. 21-05, 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Legal Theory & Philosophy Links:  Type: Other Abstract Why are lies wrong? The Kantian answer sees lies as a close cousin to coercion; they are a violation of individual autonomy and a demonstration of contempt. By contrast, the utilitarian answer is that lies are likely to lead to terrible consequences, sometimes because they obliterate trust, sometime because they substitute the liar’s will for that of the chooser, who has much better information about the chooser’s welfare than does the liar. The utilitarian objection to paternalistic lies is akin to the utilitarian embrace of Mill’s Harm Principle. It is possible to see the Kantian view as a kind of moral heuristic, welcome on utilitarian grounds. The Kantian and utilitarian objections to lying have implications for the family, the workplace, advertising, commerce, and politics, and also for constitutional law. Michael Eber, Cass R. Sunstein, James K. Hammitt & Jennifer Yeh, The Modest Effects of Fact Boxes on Cancer Screening, 62 J. Risk & Uncertainty 29 (2021). Categories: Health Care , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Health Law & Policy Links:    Type: Article Abstract As health care becomes increasingly personalized to the needs and values of individual patients, informational interventions that aim to inform and debias consumer decision-making are likely to become important tools. In a randomized controlled experiment, we explore the effects of providing participants with published fact boxes on the benefits and harms of common cancer screening procedures. Female participants were surveyed about breast cancer screening by mammography, while male participants were surveyed about prostate cancer screening by prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing. For these screening procedures, we expect consumers to have overly optimistic prior beliefs about the benefits and harms. We find that participants update their beliefs only modestly and change their stated preferences to seek screening even more modestly. Participants who scored higher on a numeracy test updated their beliefs and preferences about screening more in response to the fact boxes than did patients who scored lower on the numeracy test. More-numerate subjects also seem to become more anxious in response to the risk information. Cass R. Sunstein, Are Food Labels Good?, 99 Food Pol'y 101984 (Feb. 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics , Consumer Finance , Health Care Sub-Categories: Consumer Protection Law , Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies , Food & Drug Law Links:    Type: Article Abstract Do people from benefit from food labels? When? By how much? Public officials face persistent challenges in answering these questions. In various nations, they use four different approaches: they refuse to do so on the ground that quantification is not feasible; they engage in breakeven analysis; they project end-states, such as economic savings or health outcomes; and they estimate willingness-to-pay for the relevant information. Each of these approaches runs into strong objections. In principle, the willingness-to-pay question has important advantages. But for those who has that question, there is a serious problem. In practice, people often lack enough information to give a sensible answer to the question how much they would be willing to pay for (more) information. People might also suffer from behavioral biases (including present bias and optimistic bias). And when preferences are labile or endogenous, even an informed and unbiased answer to the willingness to pay question may fail to capture the welfare consequences, because people may develop new tastes and values as a result of information. Cass R. Sunstein & Adrian Vermeule, Presidential Review: The President’s Statutory Authority Over Independent Agencies, 109 Geo. L.J. 637 (2021). Categories: Government & Politics , Constitutional Law Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies , Executive Office , Congress & Legislation Links:  Type: Article Abstract Many presidents have been interested in asserting authority over independent regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Communications Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Federal Reserve Board. The underlying debates raise large constitutional questions, above all about the meaning and justification of the idea of a “unitary executive.” In the first instance, however, the president’s authority over independent agencies depends not on the Constitution, but on a common statutory phrase, which allows the president to discharge the heads of such agencies for “inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.” This phrase – the INM standard – is best understood to create a relationship of presidential review — and a particular remedy for legal delinquency flowing from that review. It allows the president to discharge members of independent agencies not only for laziness and torpor (“inefficiency”) or for corruption (“malfeasance”), but also for neglect of their legal duty, which includes egregiously erroneous decisions of policy, law, or fact, either repeatedly or on unusually important matters. Connecting this understanding to the Take Care Clause, we reject both a minimalist approach, which deprives the president of any kind of decisionmaking authority over policy made by independent agencies, and also a maximalist approach, which would treat the independent agencies as essentially identical to executive agencies, in terms of presidential oversight authority. This approach has strong implications for how to understand the President’s directive authority over the independent agencies. Cass R. Sunstein, Once Upon a Time There Was a Big Bubble, N.Y. Rev., Jan. 14, 2021) (reviewing Robert Shiller, Narrative Economics: How Stories Go Viral & Drive Major Economic Events (2019)). Categories: Banking & Finance , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Economics , Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:  Type: Other Abstract Robert Shiller argues for the power of stories in shaping economics. Lucia A. Reisch, Cass R. Sunstein, Mark A. Andor, Friederike C. Doebbe, Johanna Meier, & Neal R. Haddaway, Mitigating Climate Change via Food Consumption and Food Waste: A Systematic Map of Behavioral Interventions, 279 J. Cleaner Prod. (Jan. 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Environmental Law , Health Care Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Climate Change , Food & Drug Law Links:    Type: Article Abstract Demand-side policies for mitigating climate change based on behavioral insights are gaining increased attention in research and practice. Here we describe a systematic map that catalogs existing research on behaviorally informed interventions targeting changes in consumer food consumption and food waste behavior. The purpose is to gain an overview of research foci and gaps, providing an evidence base for deeper analysis. In terms of food consumption, we focus on animal protein (meat, fish, dairy, and eggs) and its substitutes. The map follows the standards for evidence synthesis from the Collaboration for Environmental Evidence (CEE) as well as the RepOrting Standards for Systematic Evidence Syntheses (ROSES). We identified 49 articles including 56 separate studies, as well as 18 literature reviews. We find a variety of study designs with a focus on canteen and restaurant studies as well as a steep increase of publications since 2016. We create an interactive evidence atlas that plots these studies across geographical space. Here, we find a concentration of research in the Anglo-Saxon world. Most studies follow multi-intervention designs and focus on actual food consumption behavior, fewer on food waste behavior. We identify knowledge clusters amenable for a systematic review focusing on the effectiveness of these interventions, namely: priming, disclosure, defaults, social norms, micro-environment changes, and ease of use. The systematic map highlights knowledge gaps, where more primary research is needed and evidence cannot support policy; it identifies knowledge clusters, where sufficient studies exist but there is a lack of clarity over effectiveness, and so full synthesis can be conducted rapidly; finally, it reveals patterns in research methods that can highlight best practices and issues with methodology that can support the improvement of primary evidence production and mitigation of research waste. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first systematic study mapping this specific area. Cass R. Sunstein, Can the Government Regulate Deepfakes?, Wall St. J., Jan. 7, 2021. Categories: Constitutional Law , Civil Practice & Procedure Sub-Categories: First Amendment , Torts - Defamation Links:  Type: News Abstract New technology makes it possible to create videos that show a person doing or saying anything the creator wants—and it’s not clear what U.S. law can do about it. Cass R. Sunstein, Self-Silencing and Online Learning, 69 J. Legal Educ. (forthcoming 2021). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Legal Profession Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Legal Education Links:  Type: Article Abstract Social influences play a large role in legal education, and they may lead to self-silencing, group polarization, hidden profiles, and cascade effects. In some cases, class discussion may converge on a view that is, in fact, supported by only a minority of students, who do not hear what others actually think or have to say. In other cases, the view is supported by a majority, but uninformed by the minority or minorities. The result can be a failure to take advantage of the information, experiences, or perspectives that students actually have. Given a certain distribution of social norms, or bad luck, conservative students might be silenced; the same is true of students with certain religious convictions, libertarian students, students with far-left views, female students, and students of color. Online learning might be designed or used in such a way as to reduce the relevant Cass R. Sunstein & Adrian Vermeule, The Unitary Executive: Past, Present, Future, 2020 Sup. Ct. Rev. 83 (2021). Categories: Constitutional Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Constitutional History , Administrative Law & Agencies , Congress & Legislation , Executive Office , Government Accountability , Supreme Court of the United States , Separation of Powers Links:  Type: Article Abstract Under the U.S. Constitution, is the executive branch unitary, and if so, in what sense? For many decades, there has been a sharp dispute between those who believe in a strongly unitary presidency, in accordance with the idea that the president must have unrestricted removal power over high-level officials entrusted with implementation of federal law, and those who believe in a weakly unitary presidency, in accordance with the view that Congress may, under the Necessary and Proper Clause, restrict the president’s removal power, so long as the restriction does not prevent the president from carrying out his constitutionally specified functions. Both positions can claim support from the original understanding of relevant clauses; both can claim to keep faith with constitutional commitments in light of dramatically changed circumstances, above all the rise of the modern administrative state. In Seila Law v. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a sharply divided Court enthusiastically embraced the strongly unitary position, in an ambiguous opinion that might be read to preserve the constitutionality of independent multimember commissions, but that also left a great deal of room for constitutional challenges to such commissions in their present form. The Court’s analysis purports to be rooted in the original understanding of the constitution, and not implausibly so; but the Court relies so heavily on abstract principles, such as “liberty” and “accountability,” that its analysis is not easily distinguishable from a dynamic constitutionalism suffused with political morality. The Court’s holding and analysis can thus be seen as a direct outgrowth of modern anxiety, rooted in structural concerns, about the threats posed by a powerful, discretion-wielding administrative apparatus, and a belief that presidential control is an essential safeguard. Cass R. Sunstein, Our Anti-Korematsu (Harvard Pub. L. Working Paper No. 21-21, Dec. 29, 2020). Categories: Constitutional Law , Discrimination & Civil Rights , Health Care Sub-Categories: Religion , Discrimination , Religious Rights , Health Law & Policy Links:  Type: Other Abstract In Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn v. Cuomo, the Supreme Court took a highly aggressive approach to restrictions imposed by the state of New York on houses of worship, even though those restrictions were vigorously defended on public health grounds. Because of the serious health effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and because of the plausibility of a plea for judicial respect for complex choices and tradeoffs by elected officials, Roman Catholic Diocese can reasonably be seen as a kind of anti-Korematsu – that is, as a strong signal of judicial solicitude for constitutional rights, and of judicial willingness to protect against discrimination, even under emergency circumstances in which life is on the line. Roman Catholic Diocese can also and equally be seen as a vindication of Justice Robert Jackson’s argument in Railway Express, in which he called for relatively ready invocation of antidiscrimination principles, as opposed to liberty principles, on the ground that the former, unlike the latter, trigger political safeguards against unjustified actions. Nonetheless, there are two open questions. The first is how to think about claims of discrimination in the context of actual and potentially challenging questions about the appropriate comparator, that is, the institutions that are best seen as comparable to houses of worship, in terms of the health risks that they create. The second is whether Roman Catholic Diocese is genuinely generalizable as an anti-Korematsu, or whether it is best seen as a distinctive product of the contemporary Court’s particular solicitude for religion and religious institutions. Paul Dolan, Kate Laffan & Cass R. Sunstein, Let’s Face It: Assessing the Welfare Effects of Calorie Labelling Using Automatic Facial Coding (Dec. 16, 2020). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Social Welfare Law , Law & Behavioral Sciences Links:  Type: Other Abstract Although there has been a proliferation of research and policy work into how nudges shape people’s behaviour, most studies stop far short of welfare analysis. In the current work, we critically reflect on recent efforts to proxy the welfare impact of nudges using willingness to pay and subjective wellbeing reports and explore an alternative unobtrusive approach: automatic facial expression coding. In an exploratory lab study, we use facial expression coding to assess the short-run emotional impacts of being presented with calorie information about a popcorn snack in the context of a stylized ‘Cinema experience’. The results of the study indicate that calorie information has heterogeneous impacts on people’s likelihood of choosing the snack and on the emotions they experience during the moment of choice which varies based on their level of health consciousness. The information does not, however, affect the emotions people go on to experience while viewing movie clips, suggesting that the emotional effects of the information are short-lived. We conclude by emphasising the potential of automatic facial expression coding to provide new insights into the short-run welfare effects of nudges and calling for further research into this promising technique. Jon Kleinberg, Jens Ludwig, Sendhil Mullainathan & Cass R. Sunstein, Algorithms as Discrimination Detectors, 117 Proc. Nat'l Acad. Sci. 33096 (Dec. 1, 2020). Categories: Discrimination & Civil Rights , Labor & Employment , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Technology & Law Sub-Categories: Discrimination , Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Employment Discrimination , Networked Society , Science & Technology Links:   Type: Article Abstract This paper results from the Arthur M. Sackler Colloquium of the National Academy of Sciences, “The Science of Deep Learning,” held March 13–14, 2019, at the National Academy of Sciences in Washington, DC. Preventing discrimination requires that we have means of detecting it, and this can be enormously difficult when human beings are making the underlying decisions. As applied today, algorithms can increase the risk of discrimination. But as we argue here, algorithms by their nature require a far greater level of specificity than is usually possible with human decision making, and this specificity makes it possible to probe aspects of the decision in additional ways. With the right changes to legal and regulatory systems, algorithms can thus potentially make it easier to detect—and hence to help prevent—discrimination. Cass R. Sunstein, Should Public Figures Apologize?, 87 Soc. Rsch.: Int'l Q. 1023 (2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Type: Article Abstract In the modern era, the statements and actions of public figures are scrutinized with great care, and it often emerges that they have said or done things that many people consider objectionable, hurtful, offensive, or despicable. A persistent question is whether public figures should apologize for those statements or actions. Suppose that an apology has a purely strategic motivation: helping a politician to be elected or reelected, helping an executive to keep his job, helping a nominee to be confirmed by the U.S. Senate. Empirical work presented here suggests that an apology might well turn out to be futile or even counterproductive. One reason is Bayesian; an apology produces updating that can be unfavorable to the apologizer (by, for example, resolving doubts about whether the apologizer actually said or did the objectionable thing, and about whether what the apologizer did was actually objectionable). Another reason is behavioral; an apology triggers the public’s attention, makes the public figure’s wrongdoing more salient, and can help define him or her. But many open questions remain about the reasons why apologies by public figures fail, and about the circumstances in which they might turn out to be effective. Cass R. Sunstein, Behavioral Science and Public Policy (2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Law & Political Theory Links:  Type: Book Philipp Lorenz-Spreen, Stephan Lewandowsky, Cass R. Sunstein & Ralph Hertwig, How Behavioural Sciences Can Promote Truth, Autonomy and Democratic Discourse Online, 4 Nature Hum. Behav. 1102 (2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Technology & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Networked Society , Information Commons , Communications Law Links:   Type: Article Abstract Public opinion is shaped in significant part by online content, spread via social media and curated algorithmically. The current online ecosystem has been designed predominantly to capture user attention rather than to promote deliberate cognition and autonomous choice; information overload, finely tuned personalization and distorted social cues, in turn, pave the way for manipulation and the spread of false information. How can transparency and autonomy be promoted instead, thus fostering the positive potential of the web? Effective web governance informed by behavioural research is critically needed to empower individuals online. We identify technologically available yet largely untapped cues that can be harnessed to indicate the epistemic quality of online content, the factors underlying algorithmic decisions and the degree of consensus in online debates. We then map out two classes of behavioural interventions—nudging and boosting— that enlist these cues to redesign online environments for informed and autonomous choice. Cass R. Sunstein, On Overruling Chevron (Nov. 1, 2020). Categories: Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies , Judges & Jurisprudence , Statutory Interpretation , Supreme Court of the United States , Politics & Political Theory , Congress & Legislation Links:  Type: Other Abstract Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. v. National Resources Defense Council, Inc., the foundation for much of contemporary administrative law, is under siege. Several members of the Supreme Court have suggested that they would like to overrule it. Under standard principles of stare decisis, doing that would be a serious mistake. Even if Chevron was wrongly decided, overruling it would create an upheaval—a large shock to the legal system, producing a great deal of confusion, more conflicts in the courts of appeals, and far greater politicization of administrative law. For example: What would happen to the countless regulations that have been upheld under the Chevron framework? Would they be newly vulnerable? More fundamentally,, a predictable effect of overruling Chevron would be to ensure a far greater role for judicial policy preferences in statutory interpretation and far more common splits along ideological lines. There is also the question of reliance interests: For decades, Congress has legislated against the background set by Chevron, and the resulting statutes reflect an understanding that the Court’s framework will apply. Though the argument for overruling Chevron is unconvincing, its critics have legitimate concerns. Those concerns should be addressed by (1) insisting on a fully independent judicial role in deciding whether a statute is ambiguous at Step One; (2) invalidating arbitrary or unreasonable agency interpretations at Step Two; and (3) deploying canons of construction, including those that are designed to serve nondelegation functions and thus to cabin executive authority. Cass R. Sunstein & Julien L. Gosset, Optimal Sludge? The Price of Program Integrity, 70 Duke L.J. Online 74 (2020). Categories: Government & Politics , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Article Abstract Public officials often impose eligibility requirements that have two effects: (1) they screen out ineligible people and (2) they screen out eligible people. Consisting of paperwork of administrative burdens, such requirements are sometimes characterized as “sludge,” and for some eligible people, they might prove overwhelming or prohibitive. In these circumstances, there is a pervasive normative issue: what is the optimal tradeoff between (1) and (2)? It is plausible to think that a great deal depends on numbers. If, for example, the number of ineligible people who are screened out is very large, and if the number of eligible people who are screened out is very small, then there would seem little ground for objection. But if the number of eligible people who are screened out is very large, there is a serious problem, and it might be worthwhile to consider an approach that would not screen out eligible people, even if it would simultaneously fail to screen out, or effectively “screen in,” a small number of ineligible people. We identify competing, plausible positions on the normative question, which we label consequentialist and legalist. We also offer the results of a pilot study, which shows that the overwhelming majority of respondents would favor changes that allow ineligible people to receive benefits, if that is the price of ensuring that eligible people do so as well – unless the number of ineligible recipients is very high. The survey results suggest that most people reject the legalist position and embrace a form of consequentialism. Cass R. Sunstein, Hayekian Behavioral Economics (Oct. 19, 2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Legal Theory & Philosophy Links:  Type: Other Abstract One of Friedrich Hayek’s most important arguments pointed to the epistemic advantages of the price system, which incorporates the information held by numerous, dispersed people. Like John Stuart Mill, Friedrich Hayek also offered an epistemic argument on behalf of freedom of choice. He emphasized that outsiders know much less than choosers do, which means that interferences with personal freedom, by those outsiders, will make choosers worse off. A contemporary challenge to that epistemic argument comes from behavioral economics, which has uncovered an assortment of reasons why choosers err, and also pointed to possible distortions in the price system. But even if those findings are accepted, what should outsiders do? How should they proceed? A neo-Hayekian approach would seek to reduce the knowledge problem by asking not what outsiders want, but what individual choosers actually do under epistemically favorable conditions. In practice, that question can be disciplined by asking five subsidiary questions: (1) What do consistent choosers, unaffected by self-evidently irrelevant factors, end up choosing? (2) What do informed choosers choose? (3) What do active choosers choose? (4) In circumstances in which people are free of behavioral biases, including (say) present bias or unrealistic optimism, what do they choose? (5) What do people choose when their viewscreen is broad, and they do not suffer from limited attention? These kinds of questions can be answered empirically. An ongoing program of research, coming from a diverse assortment of people, explores these questions, and can be seen to be producing a form of Hayekian behavioral economics – Hayekian in the sense that it can claim to be respectful of Hayek’s fundamental concerns. These conclusions are illustrated with reference to the controversy over fuel economy standards, with an acknowledgement that on broadly Hayekian grounds, the best approach might be to inform consumers of potential savings, while using a corrective tax to control externalities. Cass R. Sunstein, Textualism and the Duck-Rabbit Illusion (Harv. Pub. L. Working Paper No. 20-26, 2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Legal Theory & Philosophy , Judges & Jurisprudence , Supreme Court of the United States Links:  Type: Other Abstract Textualists insist that judges should follow the ordinary meaning of a legal text, and sometimes texts have an ordinary meaning that judges can follow. But sometimes texts have no such thing, in the sense that they are reasonably susceptible to two or more interpretations. Some textualists fall victim to something like the duck-rabbit illusion. They genuinely see a duck; they insist that a duck is the only thing that reasonable people can see. Their perception is automatic, even though it might have been primed, or a product of preconceptions. But reasonable people might well see a rabbit. Various approaches are possible to determine whether we have a duck or a rabbit; most of them do not turn on the text at all. Cass R. Sunstein, Marvelous Belief, L.A. Rev. Books (Sept. 21, 2020) (reviewing Liel Leibovitz, Stan Lee: A Life in Comics (2020)). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Arts & Entertainment Law , Law & Humanities Links:  Type: Article Abstract One of the most influential storytellers of the last sixty years was the exuberant Stan Lee, who helped create Spider-Man, the Fantastic Four, the Hulk, Daredevil, Iron Man, the Black Panther, and the X-Men. In a short burst of creativity in the early 1960s, Lee created most of his iconic characters, and changed popular culture in the process. This essay, a review of Liel Leibovitz’s Stan Lee: A Life in Comics (2020), explores Lee’s astonishing creativity and distinctiveness, which can be found in a combination of joyful ebullience, capacity to wink, delight in human diversity, wit, commitment to human rights, and understanding of the essentials of the hero’s journey, or the monomyth, as described by Joseph Campbell. Cass R. Sunstein & Adrian Vermeule, Law and Leviathan: Redeeming the Administrative State (2020). Categories: Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Book Abstract Many Americans fear the power of unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats – the deep state. Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermeule seek to calm those fears by proposing a moral regime to ensure that government rulemakers behave transparently and don’t abuse their authority. The administrative state may be a Leviathan, but it can be a principled one. Cass R. Sunstein, Post-Election Chaos: A Primer (Harv. Pub. L. Working Paper No. 20-25, 2020). Categories: Government & Politics , Constitutional Law Sub-Categories: Elections & Voting , Executive Office , Politics & Political Theory , Congress & Legislation Links:  Type: Other Abstract With respect to the election of the U.S. President, the U.S. Constitution is vague and full of silences and gaps. When the vote is close, and when people disagree about who won, the Constitution does not sort out the respective roles of the states, the Electoral College, Congress, and the Vice President. The Electoral Count Act of 1887 is the closest thing to a roadmap for handling controversies after election day, and on many issues, it offers helpful guidance. At the same time, it is not at all clear that it is constitutional, or that it is binding, and in the face of a claim of serious mistakes and fraud, it contains silence and ambiguity. Taken together, the Constitution and the Electoral Count Act answer numerous questions, but they also leave important ones unanswered, including the role of the House and Senate amidst allegations of fraud and the proper role of the Vice President. This brief primer identifies the main answers and the principal open questions. Cass R. Sunstein, Too Much Information: Understanding What You Don't Want to Know (2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Book Abstract How much information is too much? Do we need to know how many calories are in the giant vat of popcorn that we bought on our way into the movie theater? Do we want to know if we are genetically predisposed to a certain disease? Can we do anything useful with next week's weather forecast for Paris if we are not in Paris? In Too Much Information, Cass Sunstein examines the effects of information on our lives. Policymakers emphasize “the right to know,” but Sunstein takes a different perspective, arguing that the focus should be on human well-being and what information contributes to it. Government should require companies, employers, hospitals, and others to disclose information not because of a general “right to know” but when the information in question would significantly improve people's lives. Sunstein argues that the information on warnings and mandatory labels is often confusing or irrelevant, yielding no benefit. He finds that people avoid information if they think it will make them sad (and seek information they think will make them happy). Our information avoidance and information seeking is notably heterogeneous—some of us do want to know the popcorn calorie count, others do not. Of course, says Sunstein, we are better off with stop signs, warnings on prescriptions drugs, and reminders about payment due dates. But sometimes less is more. What we need is more clarity about what information is actually doing or achieving. Geoffrey R. Stone, Louis M. Seidman, Cass R. Sunstein, Mark Tushnet & Pamela S. Karlan, Constitutional Law: 2020 Supplement (2020). Categories: Constitutional Law Sub-Categories: Constitutional History , Other Amendments Links:  Type: Book Abstract The 2020 Annual Supplement, like prior Supplements, includes excerpts from recent scholarship and from important new decisions of the Supreme Court. This was a most interesting Term, and several of the new decisions that are covered in the Annual Supplement are listed below. New to the 2020 supplement: Trump v. Vance Espinoza v. Montana June Medical Services v. Russo Seila Law v. CFPB Our Lady of Guadalupe School v. Morissey-Berra Chiafalo v. Washington Little Sisters of the Poor v. Pennsylvania Micha Kaiser, Manuela Bernauer, Cass R. Sunstein & Lucia A. Reisch, The Power of Green Defaults: The Impact of Regional Variation of Opt-out Tariffs on Green Energy Demand in Germany, 174 Ecological Econ. (2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Environmental Law , International, Foreign & Comparative Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Empirical Legal Studies , Climate Change , Energy & Utilities Law , Renewable Resources Law , European Law Links:    Type: Article Abstract The present paper focuses on green defaults as demand-side policies supporting the uptake of renewable energy in Germany. It sets out to gain a better understanding of whether and for whom green electricity defaults work. The present study is one of the first to use a large-scale data set to investigate this question. We combine micro-level data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (GSOEP) covering private households (including a wealth of individual information) with macro-level information such as population density of a region and proportion of energy suppliers in a given region that use a green opt-out tariff within their basic supply. We show that in Germany, green defaults, automatically enrolling customers in renewable energy sources, tend to stick, especially but not only among those who are concerned about the problem of climate change. This finding, based on real-world rather than experimental evidence, attests to the power of automatic enrollment in addressing environmental problems in Germany and potentially beyond, including climate change, and also adds to the growing literature on the substantial effects of shifting from opt-in to opt-out strategies. Lawrence B. Solum & Cass R. Sunstein, Chevron as Construction, 105 Cornell L. Rev. 1465 (2020). Categories: Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies , Courts , Judges & Jurisprudence , Supreme Court of the United States , Statutory Interpretation Links:   Type: Article Abstract In 1984, the Supreme Court declared that courts should uphold agency interpretations of ambiguous statutory provisions, so long as those interpretations are reasonable. The Chevron framework, as it is called, is now under serious pressure. Current debates can be both illuminated and softened with reference to an old distinction between interpretation on the one hand and construction on the other. In cases of interpretation, judges (or agencies) must ascertain the meaning of a statutory term. In cases of construction, judges (or agencies) must develop implementing principles or specify a statutory term. In cases that involve statutory construction, the argument on behalf of Chevron is very powerful; agencies have relevant comparative advantages in developing implementing principles. With respect to statutory interpretation, the argument on behalf of Chevron is more controversial. Those who reject Chevron in the context of interpretation should nonetheless accept it in the context of construction. The distinction between interpretation and construction explains some important cases in the 1940s and also in the post-Chevron era. Katrine Bach Habersaat, Cornelia Betsch, Margie Danchin, Cass R. Sunstein, Robert Böhm, Armin Falk, Noel T. Brewer, Saad B. Omer, Martha Scherzer, Sunita Sah et al., Ten Considerations for Effectively Managing the COVID-19 Transition, 4 Nature Hum. Behav. 677 (2020). Categories: Health Care , International, Foreign & Comparative Law , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Health Law & Policy , International Law , Nonprofit & Nongovernmental Organizations Links:   Type: Article Abstract Governments around the world have implemented measures to manage the transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). While the majority of these measures are proving effective, they have a high social and economic cost, and response strategies are being adjusted. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that communities should have a voice, be informed and engaged, and participate in this transition phase. We propose ten considerations to support this principle: (1) implement a phased approach to a ‘new normal’; (2) balance individual rights with the social good; (3) prioritise people at highest risk of negative consequences; (4) provide special support for healthcare workers and care staff; (5) build, strengthen and maintain trust; (6) enlist existing social norms and foster healthy new norms; (7) increase resilience and self-efficacy; (8) use clear and positive language; (9) anticipate and manage misinformation; and (10) engage with media outlets. The transition phase should also be informed by real-time data according to which governmental responses should be updated. Cass R. Sunstein, Maximin, 37 Yale J. on Reg. 940 (2020). Categories: Government & Politics , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Article Abstract For regulation, some people argue in favor of the maximin rule, by which public officials seek to eliminate the worst worst-cases. The maximin rule has not played a formal role in regulatory policy in the Unites States, but in the context of climate change or new and emerging technologies, regulators who are unable to conduct standard cost-benefit analysis might be drawn to it. In general, the maximin rule is a terrible idea for regulatory policy, because it is likely to reduce rather than to increase well-being. But under four imaginable conditions, that rule is attractive. (1) The worst-cases are very bad, and not improbable, so that it may make sense to eliminate them under conventional cost-benefit analysis. (2) The worst-case outcomes are highly improbable, but they are so bad that even in terms of expected value, it may make sense to eliminate them under conventional cost-benefit analysis. (3) The probability distributions may include “fat tails,” in which very bad outcomes are more probable than merely bad outcomes; it may make sense to eliminate those outcomes for that reason. (4) In circumstances of Knightian uncertainty, where observers (including regulators) cannot assign probabilities to imaginable outcomes, the maximin rule may make sense. (It may be possible to combine (3) and (4).) With respect to (3) and (4), the challenges arise when eliminating dangers also threatens to impose very high costs or to eliminate very large gains. There are also reasons to be cautious about imposing regulation when technology offers the promise of “moonshots,” or “miracles,” offering a low probability or an uncertain probability of extraordinarily high payoffs. Miracles may present a mirror-image of worst-case scenarios. Cass R. Sunstein, Behavioral Welfare Economics, 11 J. Benefit-Cost Analysis 196 (2020). Categories: Government & Politics , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Legal Theory & Philosophy , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Article Abstract A growing body of normative work explores whether and how deference to people’s choices might be reconciled with behavioral findings about human error. This work has strong implications for economic analysis of law, cost–benefit analysis, and regulatory policy. In light of behavioral findings, regulators should adopt a working presumption in favor of respect for people’s self-regarding choices, but only if those choices are adequately informed and sufficiently free from behavioral biases. The working presumption should itself be rebuttable on welfare grounds, with an understanding that the ends that people choose might make their lives go less well. For example, people might die prematurely or suffer from serious illness, and what they receive in return might not (on any plausible account of welfare) be nearly enough. The underlying reason might involve a lack of information or a behavioral bias, identifiable or not, in which case intervention can fit with the working presumption, but the real problem might involve philosophical questions about the proper understanding of welfare, and about what it means for people to have a good life. Cass R. Sunstein, Has Liberalism Ruined Everything?, 19 Contemp. Pol. Theory 175 (2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Political Theory Links:  Type: Article Abstract There has been considerable recent discussion of the social effects of “liberalism,” which are said to include a growth in out-of-wedlock childbirth, repudiation of traditions (religious and otherwise), a rise in populism, increased reliance on technocracy, inequality, environmental degradation, sexual promiscuity, deterioration of civic associations, a diminution of civic virtue, political correctness on university campuses, and a general sense of alienation. There is good reason for skepticism about these claims. Liberalism is not a person, and it is not an agent in history. Claims about the supposedly adverse social effects of liberalism are best taken not as causal claims at all, but as normative objections that should be defended on their merits. These propositions are elaborated with reference to three subordinate propositions: (1) liberalism, as such, does not lack the resources to defend traditions; (2) liberalism, as such, hardly rejects the idea of “constraint,” though the domains in which liberals accept constraints differ from those of antiliberals, and vary over time; (3) liberalism, as such, does not dishonor the idea of “honor.” There is a general point here about the difficulty of demonstrating, and the potential recklessness of claiming, that one or another “ism” is causally associated with concrete social developments. Cass R. Sunstein, The Meaning of Masks, 4 J. Behav. Econ. for Pol’y 5 (2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics Links:  Type: Article Abstract Many incentives are monetary, and when private or public institutions seek to change behavior, it is natural to change monetary incentives. But many other incentives are a product of social meanings, about which people may not much deliberate, but which can operate as subsidies or as taxes. In some times and places, for example the social meaning of smoking has been positive, increasing the incentive to smoke; in other times and places, it has been negative, and thus served to reduce smoking. With respect to safety and health, social meanings change radically over time, and they can be dramatically different in one place from what they are in another. Often people live in accordance with meanings that they deplore, or at least wish were otherwise. But it is exceptionally difficult for individuals to alter meanings on their own. Alteration of meanings can come from law, which may, through a mandate, transform the meaning of action into a bland, “I comply with law,” or into a less bland, “I am a good citizen.” Alteration of social meanings can also come from large-scale private action, engineered or promoted by “meaning entrepreneurs,” who can turn the meaning of action from, “I am an oddball,” to, “I do my civic duty,” or, “I protect others from harm.” Sometimes subgroups rebel against new or altered meanings, produced by law or meaning entrepreneurs, but often those meanings stick and produce significant change. Cass R. Sunstein, The Triumph of the Friendly: A Review of Brian Hare and Vanessa Woods, Survival of the Friendliest, 22 J. Bioeconomics. 131 (2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Environmental Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Animal Law Links:    Type: Article Johanna Mollerstrom & Cass R. Sunstein, How Special is Democracy?: An Experimental Study of Recommendations in the Minimum Effort Game, 190 Econ. Letters (2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Elections & Voting Links:  Type: Article Abstract Democratic institutions aggregate voters’ preferences about policy options and thereby help determine which policies are implemented. Previous research has, however, suggested that such institutions can also have a direct, positive effect on cooperative and efficient behavior. In a laboratory experiment, we test this suggestion by comparing the effect of recommendations on how to play that are generated through a group vote to expert-generated recommendations, on play in a minimum effort game. We find no difference between the two: both expert recommendations and democratically generated recommendations increase the efficiency of choices. In addition, we find that merely considering potential recommendations, and knowing that others have done so as well, can help enhance efficient coordination. Cass R. Sunstein, The Siren of Selfishness, N.Y. Rev. Books, Apr. 9, 2020, at 33 (reviewing Lisa Duggan, Mean Girl: Ayn Rand and the Culture of Greed (2019)). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Humanities , Legal Theory & Philosophy , Law & Economics Links:  Type: Article Cass R. Sunstein, Falsehoods and the First Amendment, 33 Harv. J.L. & Tech. 387 (2020). Categories: Constitutional Law , Technology & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: First Amendment , Politics & Political Theory , Supreme Court of the United States , Communications Law , Networked Society Links:  Type: Article Abstract What is the constitutional status of falsehoods? From the standpoint of the First Amendment, does truth or falsity matter? These questions have become especially pressing with the increasing power of social media, the frequent contestation of established facts, and the current focus on “fake news,” disseminated by both foreign and domestic agents in an effort to drive U.S. politics in particular directions. In 2012, the Supreme Court ruled for the first time that intentional falsehoods are protected by the First Amendment, at least when they do not cause serious harm. But in important ways, 2012 seems like a generation ago, and the Court has yet to give an adequate explanation for its conclusion. Such an explanation must begin the risk of a “chilling effect,” by which an effort to punish or deter falsehoods might also and in the process chill truth. But that is hardly the only reason to protect falsehoods, intentional or otherwise; there are several others. Even so, these arguments suffer from abstraction and high-mindedness; they do not amount to decisive reasons to protect falsehoods. These propositions are applied to old questions involving defamation and to new questions involving fake news, deepfakes, and doctored videos. It emerges that New York Times v. Sullivan is an anachronism, and that it should be rethought in light of current technologies and new findings in behavioral science. Government should have authority to control deepfakes and doctored videos, and also certain kinds of “fake news,” when it threatens political processes. It also emerges that Facebook, Twitter, and other social media platforms should do far more than they are now doing to control falsehoods, deepfakes, and doctored videos. Cass R. Sunstein, On Neglecting Regulatory Benefits, 72 Admin. L. Rev. 445 (2020). Categories: Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Administrative Law & Agencies , Congress & Legislation , Courts , Executive Office Links:  Type: Article Abstract The administrative state faces a pervasive problem: “benefit neglect,” understood as insufficient attention to the benefits of regulation. In 2017, for example, President Donald Trump issued Executive Order 13771, calling for a regulatory budget of $0 and directing agencies to eliminate two regulations for every regulation that they issue. The order has two laudable ambitions: to reduce the stock of existing regulations and to stem the flow of new regulations. But because it entirely ignores the benefits of regulations and focuses only on costs, it is a singularly crude instrument for achieving those goals. In both theory and practice, it threatens to impose large net costs (including significant increases in mortality and morbidity). It would be much better to abandon the idea of a regulatory budget, focused solely on costs, and instead to engage in two sustained but independent efforts: (1) a continuing “look back” at existing regulations, with the goal of simplifying or eliminating those that are unwarranted, and (2) cost-benefit discipline for new regulations. A third goal, no less important than (1) and (2), should be a very high priority, which is to produce institutional mechanisms to promote issuance of regulations that would have high net benefits (including reductions in mortality and morbidity). Congress, courts, and the executive branch should take steps to combat benefit neglect. Geoffrey R. Stone, Louis M. Seidman, Cass R. Sunstein, Mark V. Tushnet & Pamela S. Karlan, The First Amendment (Wolters Kluwer 6th ed., 2020). Categories: Constitutional Law Sub-Categories: First Amendment Links:  Type: Book Cass R. Sunstein, Internalities, Externalities, and Fuel Economy (Jan. 28, 2020). Categories: Environmental Law , Government & Politics , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Taxation Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Transportation Law , Energy & Utilities Law , Administrative Law & Agencies , Tax Policy Links:  Type: Other Abstract It is standard to think that corrective taxes, responding to externalities, are generally or always better than regulatory mandates, but in the face of behavioral market failures, that conclusion might not be right. Fuel economy and energy efficiency mandates are possible examples. Because such mandates might produce billions of dollars in annual consumer savings, they might have very high net benefits, complicating the choice between such mandates and externality-correcting taxes (such as carbon taxes). The net benefits of mandates that simultaneously reduce internalities and externalities might exceed the net benefits of taxes that reduce externalities alone, even if mandates turn out to be a highly inefficient way of reducing externalities. An important qualification is that corrective taxes might be designed to reduce both externalities and internalities, in which case they would almost certainly be preferable to a regulatory mandate. Cass R. Sunstein, A Note on Human Welfare and the Administrative State (Jan. 15, 2020). Categories: Government & Politics , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Other Abstract The American administrative state has become, in important respects, a cost-benefit state. At least this is so in the sense that prevailing executive orders require agencies to proceed only if the benefits justify the costs. For defenders of the cost-benefit state, the antonym of their ideal is, alternately, regulation based on dogmas, intuitions, expressivism, or interest-group power. The focus on costs and benefits is an important effort to attend to the real-world consequences of regulations – and it casts a pragmatic, skeptical light on modern objections to the administrative state, invoking public-choice theory and the supposed self-serving decisions of unelected bureaucrats. In the future, however, there will be better ways to identify those consequences, by focusing directly on welfare, and not relying on imperfect proxies. Tali Sharot & Cass R. Sunstein, How People Decide What They Want to Know, 4 Nature Hum. Behav. 14 (2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:   Type: Article Abstract Immense amounts of information are now accessible to people, including information that bears on their past, present and future. An important research challenge is to determine how people decide to seek or avoid information. Here we propose a framework of information-seeking that aims to integrate the diverse motives that drive information-seeking and its avoidance. Our framework rests on the idea that information can alter people’s action, affect and cognition in both positive and negative ways. The suggestion is that people assess these influences and integrate them into a calculation of the value of information that leads to information-seeking or avoidance. The theory offers a framework for characterizing and quantifying individual differences in information-seeking, which we hypothesize may also be diagnostic of mental health. We consider biases that can lead to both insufficient and excessive information-seeking. We also discuss how the framework can help government agencies to assess the welfare effects of mandatory information disclosure. Cass R. Sunstein, Behaviorally Informed, in The State of Economics, The State of the World 349 (Kaushik Basu, David Rosenblatt & Claudia Sepúlveda eds., 2020). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics Type: Book Cass R. Sunstein, Sludge Audits, Behav. Pub. Pol'y (Jan. 6, 2020). Categories: Government & Politics , Consumer Finance , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Technology & Law Sub-Categories: Consumer Protection Law , Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies , Information Privacy & Security Links:  Type: Article Abstract Consumers, employees, students, and others are often subjected to “sludge”: excessive or unjustified frictions, such as paperwork burdens, that cost time or money; that may make life difficult to navigate; that may be frustrating, stigmatizing, or humiliating; and that might end up depriving people of access to important goods, opportunities, and services. Because of behavioral biases and cognitive scarcity, sludge can have much more harmful effects than private and public institutions anticipate. To protect consumers, investors, employees, and others, firms, universities, and government agencies should regularly conduct Sludge Audits to catalogue the costs of sludge, and to decide when and how to reduce it. Much of human life is unnecessarily sludgy. Sludge often has costs far in excess of benefits, and it can have hurt the most vulnerable members of society. Michael Greenstone, Cass R. Sunstein & Sam Ori, Fuel Economy 2.0, 44 Harv. Envtl. L. Rev. 1 (2020). Categories: Environmental Law , Government & Politics , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Transportation Law , Oil, Gas, & Mineral Law , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Article Abstract Motor vehicle fuel-economy standards have long been a cornerstone of U.S. policy to reduce fuel consumption in the light-duty vehicle fleet. In 2010 and 2012, these standards were significantly expanded in an effort to achieve steep reductions in oil demand and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions through 2025. In 2018, following a review of the standards, the Environmental Protection Agency and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration proposed instead to freeze the standards at 2020 levels, citing high program costs (and potential safety issues). The current debate over the future of U.S. fuel economy standards provides an opportunity to consider whether the existing approach could be improved to achieve environmental and other goals at a lower cost. The current policy prescribes standards that focus on fuel economy alone, as opposed to lifetime consumption, and treats vehicle categories differentially, meaning that it imposes unnecessarily high costs and does not deliver guaranteed GHG savings. On the basis of a commitment to cost-benefit analysis, which has defined U.S. regulatory policy for more than thirty years, we propose novel reforms with three main features: (1) the direct regulation of expected fuel consumption and GHG emissions without consideration of the type or size of the vehicle; (2) use of existing data to assign lifetime fuel consumption and GHG emissions to each model; and (3) creation of a robust cap-and-trade market for automakers to reduce compliance costs. We show that these reforms would reduce fuel consumption and GHG emissions in transportation with greater certainty and do so at a far lower cost per ton of GHG emissions avoided. We also show that the the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Transportation could implement such an approach within their existing statutory authority. Cass R. Sunstein, Valuing Environmental Labels, 28 N.Y.U. Envtl. L.J. 135 (2020). Categories: Consumer Finance , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Environmental Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Consumer Protection Law , Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Article Abstract Federal regulators have often required environmental labels, which may be designed to help consumers to save money or to reduce externalities. Under prevailing executive orders, regulators are required to project the benefits and costs of such labels, and also to show that the benefits justify the costs. These projections can be extremely challenging, partly because of the difficulty of knowing how consumers will respond to labels, partly because of the challenging of converting behavioral changes into monetary equivalents. The benefits of environmental labels should include (1) the monetary value of the reduced externalities and (2) the monetary benefit to consumers, measured by willingness to pay. It may be difficult for regulators to know (1), and even if they can figure out (2), willingness to pay may not capture the welfare benefit to consumers, at least if consumers are not adequately informed (or if they suffer from some kind of behavioral bias). In principle, agencies should include, as part of (2), the moral convictions of people who care about environmental goods, at least if those convictions are backed by willingness to pay. In the face of the evident epistemic difficulties, sometimes the best that agencies can do is to engage in breakeven analysis, by which they explore what the benefits would have to be in order to justify the costs. Technical as they might seem, these claims raise fundamental questions about valuation of environmental goods and the possible disconnect between willingness to pay and welfare. Oren Bar-Gill, David Schkade & Cass R. Sunstein, Drawing False Inferences from Mandated Disclosures, 3 Behavioural Pub. Pol'y 209 (2019). Categories: Consumer Finance , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Consumer Protection Law , Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:    Type: Article Abstract Disclosure mandates are pervasive. Though designed to inform consumers, such mandates may lead consumers to draw false inferences – for example, that a product is harmful when it is not. When deciding to require disclosure of an ingredient in or characteristic of a product, regulators may be motivated by evidence that the ingredient or characteristic is harmful to consumers. But they may also be motivated by a belief that consumers have a right to know what they are buying or by interest-group pressure. Consumers who misperceive the regulator’s true motive, or mix of motives, will draw false inferences from the mandated disclosure. If consumers think that the disclosure is motivated by evidence of harm, when in fact it is motivated by a belief in a right-to-know or by interest-group pressure, then they will be inefficiently deterred from purchasing the product. We analyze this general concern about disclosure mandates. We also offer survey evidence demonstrating that the risk of false inferences is serious and real. Our framework has implications for the ongoing debate over the labeling of food with genetically modified organisms (GMOs); it suggests that the relevant labels might prove misleading to some or many consumers, producing a potentially serious welfare loss. Under prevailing executive orders, regulators must consider that loss and if feasible, quantify it. Cass Sunstein, The World According to Star Wars (rev. ed. 2019). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Humanities Links:  Type: Book Cass R. Sunstein, Like a Dog, L.A. Rev. of Books (Oct. 24, 2019) (reviewing Lee Alan Dugatkin & Lyudmila Trut, How to Tame a Fox (and Build a Dog (2017) and Richard Wrangham, The Goodness Paradox: The Strange Relationship Between Virtue and Violence in Human Evolution (2019)). Categories: Environmental Law , Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Animal Law Links:  Type: Article Abstract Where do dogs come from? Where do human beings come from? Recent research suggests a single answer: domestication. The various characteristics of dogs, distinguishing them from wolves, appear to be byproducts of domestication and (as recently shown by Richard Wrangham) a reduction in “reactive aggression.” It has long been thought that human beings domesticated dogs, but it is more plausible to think that that dogs domesticated themselves. As dogs are to wolves, so is the less robust but more docile Homo sapiens to various other, now extinct human species, including Homo erectus, Neanderthals, and Denisovans. Homo sapiens can be seen as the dog of the various human species. Homo sapiens survived in part because a reduction in reactive aggression made it possible for us to display significant increases in social learning and cooperation. Hasan Sheikh & Cass R. Sunstein, To Persuade As an Expert, Order Matters: 'Information First, then Opinion' for Effective Communication (Oct. 24, 2019). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Health Care Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Health Law & Policy Links:  Type: Other Abstract As the information gap between experts and non-experts narrows, it is increasingly important that experts learn to give advice to non-experts in a way that is effective, and that respects their autonomy and agency. We surveyed 508 participants using a hypothetical medical scenario in which participants were counseled on the risks and benefits of taking antibiotics for a sore throat in circumstances in which antibiotics were inappropriate. We asked participants whether they preferred: (1) to make their own decision based on the information or, (2) to make their decision based on the doctor’s opinion, and then randomized participants to receive “information only”, “opinion only”, “information first, then opinion”, or “opinion first, then information.” Participants whose stated preference was to follow the doctor’s opinion had significantly lower rates of antibiotic requests when given “information first, then opinion” compared to “opinion first, then information.” Our evidence suggests that “information first, then opinion” is the most effective approach. We hypothesize that this is because it is seen by non-experts as more trustworthy and more respectful of their autonomy. Cass R. Sunstein, Behaviorally Informed Policy: A Brisk Progress Report (Sept. 29, 2019). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law , Government & Politics Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics , Administrative Law & Agencies Links:  Type: Other Abstract The goal of this essay is to offer a brisk progress report about behaviorally informed policy and law, while also providing some conceptual clarifications. It identifies a diverse range of initiatives, focusing largely on experience in the United States, that involve nudging and uses of behavioral science. It also explores prominent objections, coming both from those who believe that nudges are unduly aggressive, and should be avoided, and from those who believe that they are too weak and timid, and should be replaced or supplemented with mandates and bans. L.A. Paul & Cass R. Sunstein, 'As Judged By Themselves': Transformative Experiences and Endogenous Preferences (Sept. 17, 2019). Categories: Disciplinary Perspectives & Law Sub-Categories: Law & Behavioral Sciences , Law & Economics Links:  Type: Other Abstract One way to evaluate various interventions in people’s lives is to ask whether they make choosers better off, “as judged by themselves.” This criterion can be understood to borrow from the liberal political tradition insofar as it makes the judgments of choosers authoritative. Giving ultimate authority to choosers might be taken to respect their autonomy and also promote their welfare (insofar as people are uniquely situated to know whether choices make them better off). But for certain decisions, the “as judged by themselves” criterion is indeterminate. In such cases, what people care about shifts, depending on their choice. Some choices change people’s preferences and values, and in this sense, change their identity. In these situations, sometimes involving transformative experiences, the criterion does not offer a unique solution. It is possible that welfarist criteria will resolve the indeterminacy, despite serious questions about incommensurability. Considerations of autonomy are also relevant to choice-influencing interventions that promote transformative experiences.  Remove All Filters Publication Years: 2022 (11) 2021 (45) 2020 (35) 2019 (33) 2018 (35) 2017 (34) 2016 (39) 2015 (29) 2014 (31) 2013 (22) 2012 (2) 2011 (4) 2010 (4) 2009 (11) 2008 (29) 2007 (29) 2006 (31) 2005 (21) 2004 (18) 2003 (16) 2002 (25) 2001 (20) 2000 (20) 1999 (17) 1998 (12) 1997 (11) 1996 (12) 1995 (13) 1994 (15) 1993 (20) 1992 (12) 1991 (14) 1990 (10) 1989 (7) 1988 (6) 1987 (7) 1986 (9) 1985 (2) 1984 (5) 1983 (4) 1982 (4) 1981 (1) See more See fewer Categories: Banking & Finance (36) Civil Practice & Procedure (33) Constitutional Law (170) Consumer Finance (16) Corporate Law & Securities (4) Criminal Law & Procedure (19) Disciplinary Perspectives & Law (492) Discrimination & Civil Rights (84) Environmental Law (77) Family Law (10) Government & Politics (407) Health Care (42) International, Foreign & Comparative Law (37) Labor & Employment (20) Legal Profession (33) Property Law (17) Taxation (4) Technology & Law (45) Displaying X-Y of 725 results 25/page 50/page 100/page   (Page X of Y) Current Courses Advanced Issues in Administrative Law and Theory, Spring 2022 Behavioral Economics, Law and Public Policy, Spring 2022 Course Catalog View csunstei@law.harvard.edu Areeda 225 Assistant: Brenda Bee / 617-496-1764 Curriculum Vitae (PDF) About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.