Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Students Explore Resources For Students Academic Calendar Handbook of Academic Policies Course Catalog Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Library Services for Students Dean of Students Office Office of Community Engagement, Equity, and Belonging Registration for Classes and Clinics Career Resources JD Financial Aid Graduate Program Graduate Financial Aid Commitment to Sustainability POPULAR LINKS Helios Student Email Canvas Help for Students HLS Amicus Return to Campus FAQ Commencement 2020-21 Livestream Commencement 2020-21 Livestream If you can’t attend in person, Harvard Law School Class Day and Commencement will be available to view online. 2020 and 2021 Commencement: Sunday, May 29 at 11:00am The Harvard University Commencement live stream can be accessed via the following webpage. Harvard Law School celebrates the Class of 2022 Harvard Law School celebrates the Class of 2022 Read the full news coverage from Harvard Law School’s 2022 Class Day and Commencement, including ceremony highlights, award winners, student profiles, and much more! 2022 Commencement Coverage COVID Guidance COVID-19 Guidance During Commencement Activities We are excited to gather to celebrate our graduates, and we look forward to seeing you soon. As you prepare to come to campus, please be aware that COVID-19 transmission is rated as “high” in Boston and Cambridge. In light of this, Harvard University, in consultation with the University Coronavirus Advisory Group, has issued the following public health guidance for those attending Commencement-related events: Take a COVID test before coming to campus and every day that you have a scheduled event, even if you are not experiencing symptoms. HLS community members may continue to use Color PCR testing. Guests may utilize rapid antigen tests, which are widely available at area pharmacies. If you have symptoms, no matter how mild, we ask that you do not attend Commencement events—even if you test negative. If you test positive, please do not travel to campus or attend Commencement events. After testing positive, adhere to the 5-day home isolation guidance. For the full 10 days, follow strict masking and do not drink or dine in proximity to other people. For more information, visit the Keep Harvard Healthy website. For indoor and crowded outdoor events, we strongly encourage wearing a high-quality mask that fits securely without air gaps around your nose and mouth. If attending events that involve unmasking to eat or drink, minimize any unmasked mingling and mask up whenever you can. Thank you in advance for doing your part to keep the Harvard community and our guests, especially those who may be at a higher risk for complications if they are exposed to COVID-19, safe and healthy during this joyous occasion. We look forward to seeing you soon! Announcements Announcements Congratulations, 1Ls! May 26, 2022 Congratulations on completing your 1L year! Now that you are a rising 2L, be on the lookout for our 2L Weekly Bulletins and check out the 2L Guide to Summer Jobs to help you plan your 2L job search. Congratulations, 1Ls! Professor Jacob Gersen is seeking an RA for work on projects in administrative law, constitutional law, and law & psychology May 20, 2022 Professor Jacob Gersen is seeking an RA for work on projects in administrative law, constitutional law, and law & psychology. Please send your statement of interest and resume directly to him: jgersen@law.harvard.edu. Professor Jacob Gersen is seeking an RA for work on projects in administrative law, constitutional law, and law & psychology Research Assistant for Digital Governance (Fall 2022 Seminar) May 20, 2022 Alan Raul, Lecturer on Law, is seeking a Research Assistant to assist in the preparation of his fall 2022 seminar, “Digital Governance: Privacy and Technology Trade-offs.” Work would begin in June and go through the summer, with the possibility to continue through December 2022. Please send a resume and brief note of interest to Alyssa Lui, alui@law.harvard.edu. Research Assistant for Digital Governance (Fall 2022 Seminar) Corporate Governance Research Opportunities for All Admitted Students May 20, 2022 Professor Lucian Bebchuk and the Program on Corporate Governance at Harvard Law School are seeking incoming HLS students to work as research assistants during summer 2022 on research projects in the areas of corporate governance and law and finance. Some background or interest in the corporate area or in economics/finance could be useful but not required. Please email a CV and a cover note describing your interest, the extent of your availability, and your location/s during the summer to Marzieh Noori at programcoordinator@corpgov.law.harvard.edu. Corporate Governance Research Opportunities for All Admitted Students More Research Assistant in Corporate Law for Professor Mark Roe during the Summer 2022 May 20, 2022 Seeking a Research Assistant for Professor Niko Bowie May 20, 2022 Professor Natapoff seeks summer Research Assistant May 20, 2022 Corporate Governance Research Opportunities for All Admitted Students May 20, 2022 Important Graduation Announcements and Ways to Keep in Touch! May 19, 2022 New World Social Innovation Fellowship Application Open! May 12, 2022 See all announcements Student Calendar Events for June 2022 › Dashboard Events Search and Views Navigation Show Events Search Events Search Events In Search Event Views Navigation View As ListMonthDay « May Calendar of Events Calendar of Events Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 29 30 31 1 Harvard International Office (HIO) Open Office Hours with Peter O’Meara 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 1 2 « May + Export Events HLS Student Spotlights HLS Student Spotlights See all student news in Harvard Law Today ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Harvard Law Today spoke to a few staff members who made the Commencement Day possible to find out how they support Commencement, what preparing for a triple graduation takes, and why this is one of the most special days of the year. Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 From Orientation to Commencement, a look at a year at Harvard Law School. Highlights of Commencement 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 A look at HLS Commencement, from dawn 'til dusk. twoup-content Explore HLS Amicus, our Student Directory and Community Building Platform Update your HLS Amicus profile with your latest information, including summer employment, your current location, and any new student organization involvement. You can also view classmates in your courses, reach out to alumni in Student-Alumni Connect, and more! Log in to Amicus today! Campus Resources Campus Resources Emergency Contacts Recreation and Athletics Administrative Updates IT Services for Students Campus Map and Directions Outings and Innings Map of Gender-Inclusive Bathrooms on Campus (PDF) HUPD and your HUID Tent Card Replacement Which Department Do You Need? Which Department Do You Need? Dean of Students Office Visit DOS » Explore More about Dean of Students Office Accessibility Services Resources Administrative Updates University and HLS Resources Student Directory Graduate Program Visit the Grad Program » Explore More about Graduate Program Graduate Program Financial Aid and Billing Graduate Program Handbook Writing for LL.M. Students Student Life Office of the Registrar Visit the Registrar » Explore More about Office of the Registrar All Registrar’s Office Dates & Deadlines Degree & Enrollment Verifications Examinations Policies and Forms J.D. Student Financial Services Visit SFS » Explore More about J.D. Student Financial Services Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Overview Introduction to LIPP Academics and Clinical Visit Academics and Clinical » Explore More about Academics and Clinical Academic Calendar 2021-2022 Programs of Study Pro Bono Program Office of Career Services Visit OCS » Explore More about Office of Career Services J.D. Private Sector Job Search LL.M. Job Search Early Interview Program (EIP) Judicial Clerkships Bernard Koteen Office of Public Interest Advising Visit OPIA » Explore More about Bernard Koteen Office of Public Interest Advising What Is Public Interest Law? Public Interest Services for Current Students Job Search Toolkit International Legal Studies Visit ILS » Explore More about International Legal Studies Semester Abroad University of Cambridge Joint Degree Program Winter Term International Travel Grants Chayes International Public Service Fellowships International Travel Students Dashboard Sidebar Follow Us On Instagram harvardlaw “You have got to be willing to take … risks, b Follow Us On Instagram Follow HLS On TwitterTweets by Harvard_Law Find Us on Facebook Find Us on Facebook About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.