Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Harvard Law School Handbook of Academic Policies 2021-2022 Home Departments Academics Harvard Law School Handbook of Academic Policies 2021-2022 Academics In This Section Academic Calendar 2021-2022 Degree Programs Programs of Study Curriculum Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Writing at HLS Prizes Cross-Registration Handbook of Academic Policies Fellowships Winter Term Harvard Law School Handbook of Academic Policies 2021-2022 featured-content 2021-2022 HLS Handbook of Academic Policies View the Handbook (PDF) Handbook of Academic Policies Table of Contents Handbook of Academic Policies Table of Contents The links below to specific pages within the Handbook of Academic Policies may not work on mobile devices. Faculty Professors Emeriti Professors and Assistant Professors of Law Clinical Professors and Assistant Clinical Professors Professors of Practice Affiliated Harvard University Faculty Visiting Professors of Law Climenko Fellows Lecturers on Law Notice: Public Health and Delivery of Academic Programs Notice: Public Health and Delivery of Academic Programs I. Requirements for the J.D. Degree A. Residence B. Statement of Learning Outcomes C. First-Year J.D. Course and Credit Requirements D. Upper-Level J.D. Course and Credit Requirements 1. Required Law School Classroom Work 2. Required Additional Credits 3. Transfer Student J.D. Program-Special Considerations 4. Minimum Credit Requirement for VA benefit-eligible students E. Definition of the Law School Credit Hour F. Experiential Learning Requirement G. Professional Responsibility Requirement H. International and Comparative Course Requirement I. Upper-Level J.D. Residency Requirements J. Joint and Coordinated Degree Credit and Residency Requirements K. J.D. Written Work Requirement 1. Option 1 of the J.D. Written Work Requirement 2. Option 2 of the J.D. Written Work Requirement 3. Experiential Learning, Professional Responsibility, and Written Work 4. Supervision 5. Supervision by Visiting Faculty 6. Prohibition against Compensation 7. Multiple Use of Papers 8. Human Subjects Research L. Pro Bono Requirement M. Pro Bono and Written Work Credit for Political Activities 1. Pro Bono Credit 2. Written Work Credit N. Class Attendance and Participation; Overlapping Class Times O. Grades for J.D. Students 1. Honors, Pass, Low Pass, or Fail Grades 2. Dean’s Scholar Prizes 3. Credit/Fail Grades P. Extensions Q. Grade Changes R. Completion of Course Evaluations and Grade Release S. Graduation with Honors T. Satisfactory Academic Progress 1. Minimum Grades for J.D. Students 2. Minimum Annual Progress for J.D. Students U. Retaking Courses, Taking a Different Examination in the Same Course, and Substitute Work II. Requirements for Graduate Degrees A. Master of Laws (LL.M.) 1. LL.M. Residence and Credit Requirements 2. Recommended Courses 3. Class Attendance and Participation; Overlapping Class Times 4. Grades for LL.M. Students 5. Completion of Course Evaluations and Grade Release 6. LL.M. Written Work Requirement 7. Additional Rules Relating to the LL.M. Written Work Requirement B. Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) 1. Study Plan 2. First Year in Residence 3. Oral Examination 4. Prospectus 5. Presentations at the S.J.D. Colloquium 6. Submission and acceptance of the doctoral dissertation 7. Oral Defense of the Dissertation 8. Submission of Dissertation to the Library III. Additional Academic Opportunities (J.D. and Graduate Programs) A. Additional Written Work Opportunities 1. Optional Written Work 2. Winter Term Writing Program B. Clinical Legal Education 1. Overview 2. Requirements for Clinical Credits 3. Enrollment and Credits 4. International J.D. Students in Clinics 5. Opportunities for Student Practice C. Cross-Registration 1. Cross-Registration from Harvard Law School 2. Cross-Registration into Harvard Law School D. Auditing a Harvard Law School Course E. Joint, Coordinated, and Concurrent Degree Opportunities for J.D. Students 1. Joint Degree Programs 2. Coordinated J.D./Ph.D. Program 3. Concurrent Degrees 4. Rules and Policies F. J.D. Studies at Other Schools 1. Study Abroad for J.D. Students 2. Berkeley Exchange Program for J.D. Students 3. Visits at Other Law Schools 4. Coordinating Approved Studies at Other Schools IV. Examinations A. General Examination Policy B. Deferred Examination Policy C. Retaking an Examination V. Academic Honesty A. Violation of Examination Rules; Dishonesty in Examinations B. Preparation of Papers and Other Work—Plagiarism and Collaboration C. Multiple Use of Papers VI. Registration Schedule and Course Change Deadlines A. Registration Overview B. Check-in 1. Check-in Process and Administrative Clearance 2. Check-in Dates and Administrative Clearance Dates 3. Certification C. Course and Clinic Registration Periods D. Course Add/Drop Deadlines E. Course Withdrawal Deadlines F. Clinic Add/Drop Deadlines G. Clinic Withdrawal Deadlines H. Course and Clinic Waitlists VII. Written Work Registration Deadlines A. Summary of Written Work Registration Deadlines B. Registration for the J.D. Written Work Requirement 1. Option 1 2. Option 2 C. Registration for the LL.M. Written Work Requirement D. Mandatory Registration for the Written Work Requirement E. Registration for Optional Written Work F. Application and Registration for the Winter Term Writing Program G. Additional Credit for J.D. Written Work VIII. Deadlines for Submission of Law School Work A. Submission Deadlines for Academic Work B. Submission Deadlines for Academic Work in Courses, Seminars, & Reading Groups C. Submission Deadlines for Option 1 of the J.D. Written Work Requirement; LL.M. Written Work Requirement; Optional Written Work; Winter Term Writing Program 1. Deadline for All Students 2. Extensions for May Degree Candidates (J.D. and LL.M.) 3. Extensions for 1Ls and 2Ls D. Submission Deadlines for Option 2 of the J.D. Written Work Requirement IX. Deadlines for Applying to Special Programs A. Joint and Concurrent Degree and Study Abroad Deadlines B. Berkeley Exchange Program C. Program for Visits at Other Law Schools D. Visits into Harvard Law School X. Leaves and Withdrawals Leaves and Withdrawals A. Voluntary Leave of Absence B. Requesting a Leave C. Involuntary Leaves of Absence D. While on a Leave of Absence E. Extending Voluntary Leaves F. Returning to School G. Agreements to Engage in Treatment H. Clearance for Return Related to Serious Concerns about the Health or Well-being of a Student XI. Administrative Board A. Disciplinary Actions B. Procedures for Disciplinary Cases XII. Other Rules and Important Information A. Harvard Law School Community Principles 1. Community Principles 2. Community Principle on Non-Attribution B. University-Wide Statement on Rights and Responsibilities 1. Interpretation 2. Statement of the President and Deans on University Rights and Responsibilities (2002) C. Notice of Non-Discrimination D. Title IX Policies and Information E. Harvard Law School FERPA Policy 1. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) 2. Education Records 3. Access 4. Directory Information 5. Other Disclosures Permitted under FERPA 6. Student Rights under FERPA F. Protest and Dissent Guidelines 1. Picketing and Distributing Literature 2. Silent or Symbolic Protest 3. Noise 4. Force or Violence 5. Audience Responsibility 6. Moderator/Facilitator G. Student Complaints Implicating Compliance with ABA Standards for Legal Education H. Class Recordings 1. Student Class Recording Requests 2. Timing of Recording Requests 3. Automated Recordings 4. Publication of Recordings I. Student International Travel J. Student Employment K. Use of University Libraries L. Information Technology Services 1. Harvard Law School Computer and Network Resources Usage Agreement 2. Use of Computer and Network Resources 3. Compliance with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 4. Policy on Access to Electronic Information 5. Security and Privacy 6. Anonymous and Pseudonymous Communications 7. Misuse of Resources 8. Emergency Situations and Compliance with Account Quotas 9. Copyright and Software Licenses 10. Cases of Misconduct 11. Requirements on Leaving Harvard Law School M. Harvard Law School Digital Media Policy N. Multimedia Lab O. Video Security Policies P. Harvard University I.D. Cards Q. Payment of Bills R. Harvard Law School Drug and Alcohol Policy 1. Policy 2. Provisions Regarding Alcohol Service and Use at Harvard Law School 3. Drinking Age 4. Bartenders 5. Police Presence 6. Food and Non-Alcoholic Beverages 7. Off-campus Events – Private Residence 8. Off-campus Events – Bars, Restaurants, and Off-Site Function Facilities 9. Liquor Licenses S. Cambridge No Smoking Ordinance and Harvard No Smoking Policy 1. City of Cambridge No Smoking Ordinance 2. Harvard No Smoking Policy T. Harvard Law School Missing Persons Policy U. Nonresident Student Driver Statements and Decals V. Voter Registration W. Massachusetts Anti-Hazing Statute 269:17. Hazing; organizing or participating; hazing defined 269:18. Failure to report hazing 269:19. Copy of secs. 17–19; issuance to students and student groups, teams and organizations; report 610 CMR 5.00: Hazing Reporting Appendix A: Harvard University Health Services and Counseling and Mental Health Services Appendix A: Harvard University Health Services and Counseling and Mental Health Services Appendix B: Emergency and Safety Information Appendix B: Emergency and Safety Information Helpful Links Helpful Links Student Dashboard Student Dashboard Continue to the dashboard Continue to the dashboard Dean of Students Office Dean of Students Office Visit DOS Visit DOS Office of the Registrar Office of the Registrar Visit the Registrar's Office Visit the Registrar's Office About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.