Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home About Campus Map and Directions Campus Map and Directions About Dean’s Welcome About John F. Manning Dean’s Office Department Directory Dean for Administration Office of Communications Facilities Management Office Human Resources Information Technology Services History of Harvard Law School Deans of Harvard Law School HLS Bicentennial News FAQ Campus Map and Directions Accessibility Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Title IX Information Contact HLS Please note that the HLS campus is currently closed to visitors due to COVID-19 The main Harvard Law School campus consists of 19 buildings and is located at 1585 Massachusetts Avenue, on the northwest corner of Harvard Yard, bordered by Massachusetts Avenue and Everett Street. Additional Law School buildings are located at 1651 Massachusetts Avenue and 125 Mount Auburn Street in Harvard Square, and at 122 Boylston Street in Jamaica Plain, MA, a neighborhood in Boston. View a map of campus in Google Maps. Download a printable version of the campus map and directions (PDF). Download a map of gender-inclusive bathrooms on the HLS campus (PDF). Go to the Harvard University campus map. Map In this map of the Harvard Law School Campus, HLS buildings are indicated in red. Other Harvard campus buildings are indicated in blue. Click on the map to view a larger file Directions Driving From the Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90) Take the Cambridge/Allston exit (exit 18 from the west, exit 20 from the east). Follow the Cambridge signs off the ramp to the traffic lights. Stay in the middle lane while crossing the bridge. Proceed straight across the bridge onto River Street. Stay in the left lane and follow River Street into Central Square, the first major traffic intersection. Travel straight across the intersection. (Here the street becomes Prospect Street.) At the second traffic light, turn left onto Broadway. Follow Broadway until you must bear right at the fire station, onto Quincy Street. Move into the left lane and turn left at the light onto Cambridge Street. Proceed down through the underpass and move into the far right lane which feeds into Massachusetts Avenue. The Law School is on the right, approximately one block farther. There are parking meters along both sides of the street. From I-93 Take exit 26 for Storrow Drive, using right lane and following signs for Storrow Drive. Take left lane exit for Government Center/Kendall Square/3 North and bear right at sign for Kendall Square. Proceed across bridge onto Broadway. Follow Broadway for two miles until you must bear right at the fire station, onto Quincy Street. Move into the left lane and turn left at the light onto Cambridge Street. Proceed through the underpass and move into the far right lane which feeds into Massachusetts Avenue. The Law School is on the right, approximately one block further. There are parking meters along both sides of the street. From I-95 / Route 128 From Route 128 (I-95), take the exit for Route 2 East to Arlington and Boston. Travel approximately 6.5 miles, approaching the rotary from left lane. Bear left, following signs for 3 North and 16 East to Medford. At the first light, turn right onto Massachusetts Avenue. Proceed 1.8 miles to Everett Street on the left (15th traffic light). The Law School begins here, on the left. There are parking meters along both sides of the street. Subway Via Subway (MBTA) Take the Red Line train (towards Alewife) to Harvard Square. From Harvard station, either walk north through Harvard Yard to the Law School or take the Church Street exit from the T station, and walk north on Massachusetts Avenue to the Law School. From Logan Airport Take the Silver Line bus that stops outside all airline terminals to South Station. From here, take the Red Line train inbound to Harvard (train marked Alewife). Travel time: 45 minutes. More about Logan Airport. From Amtrak South Station is the final destination for Amtrak and some commuter trains. Take the Red Line inbound to Harvard. Travel time: 30 minutes. From the Commuter Rail Some commuter rail lines end at North Station. Take the Green Line inbound to Park Street. Go downstairs and take the Red Line outbound to Harvard. Travel time: 40 minutes. Bus Via bus (MBTA) Several MBTA bus lines stop in Harvard square, refer to the MBTA website for routes and schedules. Greyhound and Trailways South Station is the final destination for most Greyhound and Trailways buses. Take the Red Line inbound to Harvard. Travel time: 30 minutes. Shuttle Using Harvard University Shuttles and Vans The Shuttle Bus is designed to provide students, faculty and staff with safe, convenient transportation on the Cambridge and Allston campuses throughout the academic year, except during recesses and a slightly reduced service during the January Term. The service is free to members of the Harvard community. There are several routes that zigzag throughout Harvard University’s campuses. View the complete Harvard shuttle schedule. You can also see in real time where the shuttles are anytime you want with Shuttle Tracker For the Web and For Your Mobile Device. Pocket-sized schedules are available throughout the campuses, including the Information Center located in the Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center arcade, House offices, libraries, dining halls, and shuttle buses. For more information, call 617-495-0400. More from Harvard Law School Harvard Law Today News ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 ‘Do justice, Class of ’22, do justice!’ May 26, 2022 View All » Follow Us On TwitterTweets by Harvard_Law Follow Us On Instagram harvardlaw “You have got to be willing to take … risks, b Follow Us On Instagram About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.