Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Faculty & Research Learn About Our Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Fellowships Research Programs and Centers POPULAR LINKS Faculty Publications Faculty in the News Media Relations featured-content Our Faculty The centerpiece of the HLS experience is working directly with scholars who shape the landscape of American and international law. The faculty includes leading specialists in every subject area. Beyond the classroom, students provide critical support to faculty producing cutting-edge research and influencing the development of the law and of societies around the world. Visit the Faculty Directory featured-content Research Programs and Centers Harvard Law School's research programs and centers produce cutting-edge work in a wide range of fields and disciplines while providing students with valuable research and clinical opportunities and the chance to work directly with faculty members on projects at the cores of their scholarly agendas. Explore our research programs and centers HLS Faculty in the News HLS Faculty in the News View more Faculty news Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Guy-Uriel Charles elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences May 10, 2022 Professor Guy-Uriel E. Charles, the Charles Ogletree, Jr. Professor of Law at Harvard, has been elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion Overturning precedent? Harvard Law faculty weigh in on leaked draft Supreme Court opinion and future of abortion May 3, 2022 Across major news outlets, Harvard Law scholars weighed in on the implications —for the Court and country — of a leaked draft of a majority Supreme Court decision overturning Roe v. Wade. Inspiring change Inspiring change April 22, 2022 On Earth Day, we highlight some of the work being done by Harvard Law students, scholars, clinics, and programs to address some our most pressing environmental issues. Supreme Court preview: Kennedy v. Bremerton School District Supreme Court preview: Kennedy v. Bremerton School District April 20, 2022 The Supreme Court stands poised to decide whether a high school coach’s penchant for prayers with players poses First Amendment problems. ‘I’d love it if poetry was required reading for law school’ ‘I’d love it if poetry was required reading for law school’ April 19, 2022 In celebration of National Poetry Month, HLS lecturer and poet Jessica Fjeld reads a passage from a poem by Terrance Hayes, and discusses the importance of poetry in building empathy and connection. Scholarship@Law: Recent Scholarship by HLS Faculty Scholarship@Law: Recent Scholarship by HLS Faculty Property and Projection Maureen E. Brady Property and Projection The Failed Transparency Regime for Executive Agreements: An Empirical and Normative Analysis Jack L. Goldsmith (with Curtis A. Bradley & Oona A. Hathaway) The Failed Transparency Regime for Executive Agreements: An Empirical and Normative Analysis The Degradation of American Democracy – and the Court Michael J. Klarman The Degradation of American Democracy – and the Court Go-Shops Revisited Guhan Subramanian & Annie Zhao Go-Shops Revisited More Scholarship Law in Global Political Economy: Now You See It, Now You Don’t David W. Kennedy Contracting for Terroir in Sake J. Mark Ramseyer The Power of Green Defaults: The Impact of Regional Variation of Opt-out Tariffs on Green Energy Demand in Germany Cass R. Sunstein (with Micha Kaiser, Manuela Bernauer & Lucia A. Reisch) What is Price Suppression in Abnormal Economic Times? Reflections in Light of the Russia–Commercial Vehicles Ruling Mark Wu (with Rodney Ludema) Perspectives From a Practitioner: Lessons Learned From the Apartheid Litigation Susan H. Farbstein Taming Systemic Corruption: The American Experience and its Implications for Contemporary Debates Matthew Stephenson (with Mariano-Florentino Cuéllar) Trading in Sacrifice Kristen Stilt Writing While Quarantined: A Personal Interpretation of Contemporary Comparative Constitutional Law Mark V. Tushnet Willingness-to-Pay: A Welfarist Reassessment Oren Bar-Gill Traditional Knowledge and Private Law Ruth L. Okediji Public Rights Joseph William Singer ESG Investing: Theory, Evidence, and Fiduciary Principles Robert H. Sitkoff (with Max M. Schanzenbach) Short-Termism, Shareholder Payouts, and Investment in the EU Jesse M. Fried & Charles C.Y. Wang A System of Fiduciary Protections for Mutual Funds Howell E. Jackson The European Commission’s Sustainable Corporate Governance Report: A Critique Mark J. Roe, Holger Spamann, Jesse M. Fried & Charles C.Y. Wang Indirect Investor Protection: The Investment Ecosystem and Its Legal Underpinnings Holger Spamann View all Scholarship@Law posts About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.