Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Commencement 2022 Explore Resources For Commencement 2022 J.D. Graduation Checklist LL.M. Graduation Checklist Class Marshals POPULAR LINKS University Commencement Information Commencement logo Class Day and Commencement Class Day Wednesday, May 25, 2022 The Class Day Program is a celebration of the achievements of the Class of 2022, with speeches, the presentation of awards, and a keynote address from the HLS Class Day Speaker, the Hon. Loretta Lynch ’84. Commencement Day Thursday, May 26, 2022 Commencement Day is comprised of the University Morning Exercises, where Harvard President Lawrence Bacow and the 2022 University Commencement Speaker, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand, will deliver their addresses and  President Bacow confers degrees, and the Law School Diploma Ceremony, where Law School Dean John F. Manning presents diplomas to each graduate. Please note, the Law School Diploma Ceremony will begin following the conclusion of the University’s Morning Exercises. Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Class Day 2:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.: Class Day Ceremony, Holmes Field The Class Day Program is a celebration of the achievements of the Class of 2022, with speeches, a presentation of awards, and a keynote address from the Class Day Speaker, the Honorable Loretta Lynch ’84. Tickets are not required. 4:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.: Class Day Reception, Caspersen and Crossroads Patios A casual reception for degree candidates and their guests. Tickets are not required Thursday, May 26, 2022 Thursday, May 26, 2022 Commencement Day 9:30 a.m. - 12 p.m.: University Morning Exercises, Tercentenary Theatre Harvard President Lawrence Bacow and the 2022 University Commencement Speaker, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand, will deliver their addresses and  President Bacow confers degrees. View the University schedule Please note the following information regarding the University Morning Exercises: Tickets are required. A ticket allows admission into Tercentenary Theatre but does not guarantee a seat. Seats are available on a first-come, first-served basis. University gates will open at 6:45 a.m and guests should plan their arrival accordingly. You must show your ticket that will be provided to your graduate. Each degree candidate is allotted two guest tickets; unfortunately, due to demand and venue capacity, additional tickets are not available. The graduate’s ticket is their school ID. Guests will be screened for the ceremonies. No backpacks of any type will be admitted. No bag or item larger than 12 x 12”x 12” will be permitted inside the Yard. No strollers will be allowed in Harvard Yard. All items are subject to search. Degree candidates must have their student IDs visible. Degree candidates will not be admitted to any of the ceremonies on Commencement Day without their Harvard Law School ID. The University Commencement Program may be viewed via live webcast on commencement.harvard.edu or Comcast 283 in metro Boston. 12 p.m. - 2 p.m.: Law School Diploma Ceremony, Holmes Field Law School Dean John F. Manning presents diplomas to each graduate. Please note the following information regarding the HLS Diploma Ceremony: The ceremony will begin following the conclusion of the University’s Morning Exercises. Tickets are not required to attend this ceremony but are required for lunch. Guests with lunch tickets may pick up boxed lunches and beverages in the Lunch Tent at the back of Holmes Field. Guests are encouraged to send one member of their party to collect the lunches. Guests are also welcome to bring their own lunches to the ceremony. All seating is first-come, first-served. Reserving seats is prohibited. Degrees will be awarded in the following order: S.J.D.s, LL.M.s, and J.D.s (by section). Commencement Resources Commencement Resources Info for Graduates View graduation checklists, information surrounding regalia and tickets, day-of-schedules, and more. Info for Graduates View graduation checklists, information surrounding regalia and tickets, day-of-schedules, and more. Continue reading Continue reading Meet your Class Marshals! Selected by vote, Class Marshals represent their class at the Harvard Law School Class Day and the Harvard University Commencement. Meet your Class Marshals! Selected by vote, Class Marshals represent their class at the Harvard Law School Class Day and the Harvard University Commencement. They are also responsible for organizing social and graduation-related events throughout the year, including Class Day and Barristers’ Ball. Continue Reading Continue Reading University Commencement Office Explore the the history, traditions, and other facets and details of Harvard Commencement University Commencement Office Explore the the history, traditions, and other facets and details of Harvard Commencement Continue Reading Continue Reading Essential Information Essential Information Tickets Televised Broadcasts & Webcasts Photography COVID-19 Notice Severe Weather Plan Tickets Class Day – Wednesday, May 25, 2022 HLS expects to be able to allow unlimited guests for Class Day programming. Tickets will not be required to attend. Commencement Day – Thursday, May 26, 2022 Each graduate will receive two (2) guest tickets to the University-wide Commencement ceremony. HLS expects to be able to allow unlimited guests at the Law School Diploma Ceremony. Tickets will not be required. Televised Broadcasts & Webcasts The University Commencement Program may be viewed via live webcast on harvard.edu or Comcast 283 in metro Boston. The Law School Class Day and Diploma Ceremonies will be live-streamed and captioned through the Harvard Law School Commencement homepage. In addition, the Harvard University Commencement Exercises and the Law School Ceremony are televised and captioned live in several Law School venues: the two large screens facing the audience on Holmes Field, Wasserstein Classrooms 1010, 1015, and 1019, and The Pub. Class Day 2022 viewing rooms will be WCC 1010, 1015, and 1019. Photography GradImages will be photographing the Law School ceremony and will be taking three professional photos of the graduates as they receive their diplomas. They can be reached by phone at 800-261-2576 or by e-mail at service@gradimages.com. We ask that guests who wish to photograph their graduate do so in a way that does not obstruct the view of other guests. COVID-19 Notice Harvard University is closely monitoring the ongoing Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Our top priority remains the health, safety, and well-being of our community, on and off-campus. All visitors to campus, including parents and guests of graduates, should be aware of University policies in place at the time of their visit. The University strongly encourages all guests to be fully vaccinated and boosted (if eligible) and if unvaccinated to complete a COVID-19 (PCR or antigen) test before arriving on campus. However, at this time, proof of vaccination or a negative test will not be required to attend the University-wide celebration or stay in campus housing. Severe Weather Plan May can be a rainy month in Cambridge. We encourage you to bring umbrellas if the weather looks threatening. In the event of rain, the ceremony will remain outside. If the Severe Weather Plan is in effect, you will be notified by signs posted around the Law School campus and at the Information Tent. Commencement staff will disseminate information around the campus. Getting Around Getting Around HLS Campus Map Parking & Transportation Security HLS Campus Map Parking & Transportation Parking during Commencement Week is extremely limited and traffic around Harvard Square will be quite congested so guests are encouraged to use public transportation or taxi services. Questions should be directed to the University Parking Office at 617-495-3772 or parking@harvard.edu. Guests in need of transportation may use Uber® or Lyft® or call to arrange a taxi in advance (see below). The Class Day reception should end by 6:00 p.m., the Commencement Day ceremony should end by 2:30 p.m. A taxi can meet you at the corner of Massachusetts Avenue and Everett Street, which is near the North entrance to Wasserstein Hall (1585 Massachusetts Avenue). Ambassador Brattle 617-492-1100 Cambridge Checker Cab 617-497-9000 Cambridge Taxi 617-649-7000 In addition, there is a taxi stand and an MBTA “T” Station (subway—Red Line) in Harvard Square, directly across the street from Harvard Yard. Security Guests will be screened for the ceremonies and are strongly discouraged from bringing bags to the events. All items are subject to search. No strollers will be allowed in Harvard Yard. Degree candidates must have their student IDs visible. Degree candidates will not be admitted to any of the ceremonies on Commencement Day without their Harvard Law School ID. Guest Support Guest Support Guests with Disabilities First Aid Nursing Facilities Lost & Found Questions Guests with Disabilities If you or your guests are in need of disability accommodations for Class Day or Commencement Day, please complete this form by May 15, 2022. Any questions can be directed to accessibility@law.harvard.edu. On Class Day and Commencement Day, Accessibility Services staff members will be available in the Information Booth to assist with accommodation inquiries and requests. First Aid If there is an emergency, call 911. All guests requiring medical attention may visit the First Aid station located across from the Information Tent between the Caspersen Student Center and Hauser Hall. Nursing Facilities Nursing facilities will be available for guests and attendees who would like access to a private space for the purpose of nursing or pumping. Please visit the Information Booth for access and additional information. Please feel free to email commencement@law.harvard.edu in advance with any questions. Lost & Found Any found items will be collected and held at Holmes Hall, Room 4 (1st Floor, Facilities). Following the ceremony, guests may inquire about lost items at the HLS Facilities Office by phone at 617-495-5521 or e-mail at facmgmt@law.harvard.edu. Questions The Information Tent is conveniently located on Kumble Plaza, between Wasserstein and Hauser Hall. Law School Commencement Staff will be available around the Law School campus to assist with questions about the Class Day and Commencement ceremonies. Look for the crimson polo shirts! Helpful Hints Helpful Hints What to Wear Flowers for Graduates Refreshments What to Wear Business casual attire is common dress for the Commencement ceremonies and guests are advised to wear shoes appropriate for walking on grassy areas. In May, the weather in Cambridge is unpredictable, so guests should plan for a range of temperatures and weather conditions. A jacket and umbrella will come in handy. All ceremonies are held outdoors, except in the event of severe weather. For more information on Harvard Law School’s severe weather plan, please see our Severe Weather Plan Info Tab. Flowers for Graduates Anyone who wishes to purchase flower bouquets on the Harvard Law School campus for a graduate will be able to do so on Commencement Day. There will be a flower tent located behind Austin Hall on the path between the University Ceremony and the Law School Diploma Ceremony, and another located directly across from the Information Tent. Bouquets can also be pre-ordered at https://www.thecommencementgroup.com/harvardlaw/. Refreshments Refreshments will be available for purchase at the following locations: The Pub Grill (Wasserstein First Floor) is open 5/25 through 5/29 from 8 am – 3 pm. The Harkbox (Wasserstein, adjacent to the Belinda Sutton Quadrangle) is open 5/25-5/27 from 8 am – 3 pm, and closed on the weekend. University Resources University Resources Plan your visit by exploring the links below! Area hotels Parking & Transportation Guests with Disabilities Maps About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.