Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home About Emergency Information Emergency Information About Dean’s Welcome About John F. Manning Dean’s Office Department Directory Dean for Administration Office of Communications Facilities Management Office Human Resources Information Technology Services History of Harvard Law School Deans of Harvard Law School HLS Bicentennial News FAQ Campus Map and Directions Accessibility Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Title IX Information Contact HLS MessageMe is Harvard University’s emergency notification system. Update your MessageMe profile. Reporting Emergencies In cases of life-threatening emergencies, always call 911 first. Harvard University Police Department (HUPD): Public safely, threat, violence, and theft 617-495-1212 Cambridge Fire Department 617-876-5800 HLS Campus Safety Office (CSO): Fire/smoke/explosion, hazardous materials, flooding, utility failure, and facilities issues 617-495-5521 Harvard University Health Services Pound Hall location: 617-495-4414 Main number: 617-495-5711 featured-content Central Gathering Space In the event of an emergency that results in a prolonged loss of power or limited access to email, Caspersen Student Center (Harkness Commons) will serve as a central location where information will be provided to members of the HLS community. Campus Map Preparing for Emergencies Preparing for Emergencies Harvard University Emergency Information Find updated news from Harvard in the case of an emergency Harvard University Emergency Information Find updated news from Harvard in the case of an emergency Continue Reading Continue Reading Plan Ahead for Disasters Visit Ready.gov to learn more about preparing for disasters Plan Ahead for Disasters Visit Ready.gov to learn more about preparing for disasters Continue Reading Continue Reading HLS Winter and Inclement Weather Guidelines Find out about school closings and contact information HLS Winter and Inclement Weather Guidelines Find out about school closings and contact information Continue Reading Continue Reading dynamic-list Safety and Security at HLS This brief video will help you be prepared in the unlikely event of an emergency at HLS. Read the transcript of the HLS Safety and Security Video (PDF) Download the Harvard Law School Safety and Security Flyer (PDF) wysiwyg Automated External Defibrillators (AED) The leading cause of death in the United States is heart disease, which often leads to sudden cardiac arrest. The use of an Automated External Defibrillator (AED) can greatly increase a person’s chance of surviving. AEDs are simple to use and can be found throughout the university. Find locations of AEDs on the HLS campus and across Harvard University. Local Emergency Management Team (LEMT) The Law School maintains a standing Local Emergency Management Team (LEMT) that works closely with University officials on emergency protocols and, in the event of an incident, will coordinate emergency response activities for the School. LEMT TEAM MEMBER DEPARTMENT PHONE ROLE L. Tracee Whitley Administration 617-495-3153 Overall management of emergency planning, preparedness, response and recovery efforts. Develops and implements business continuity and disaster resumption efforts for HLS. Liberty Kenneally Administration 617-495-4602 Communicates LEMT updates to the Dean’s planning and administrative team. Jeffrey McNaught Campus Safety 617-496-2436 Leads coordination efforts for the HLS LEMT with University-wide LEMTs, Harvard Environmental Health and Safety, and the University-wide Crisis Management Team. Catherine Claypoole Dean’s Office 617-495-4601 Communicates preparedness information to all faculty including logistical adjustments concerning classes and exams, and conveys timely HLS and University policies. Katie McGrath Finance 617-496-6058 Manages the financial aspects of the school’s emergency planning, response, and recovery actions. Melodie Jackson Communications 617-496-4481 Sends emergency-related information to the HLS community and serves as HLS’s spokesperson to the media. Jeff Neal Communications 617-384-7817 Supports in messaging to the HLS community and liaises with the media. Jessica Soban Student Services 617-495-1881 Supports students and their families with emergency-related needs. John Arciprete Facilities 617-495-5521 Maintains the facilities and grounds for emergency operations and finds alternate locations for emergency operations if needed. Procures, inventories, stores, and distributes emergency equipment and supplies. Pratike Patel ITS 617-384-5063 Manages the IT networking and equipment needs of the LEMT. Roxanne Armbruster Human Resources 617-496-2080 Recruits, trains, and assigns the HLS’s emergency planning and response employees and volunteers. Jocelyn Kennedy Library 617-496-2108 A representative of the Library is included due to the physical space, number of staff, and contents of the collection including rare manuscripts, etc. Lisa Burns Registrar 617-495-5440 Ensures classes and exams have the spaces and resources required, and makes any necessary adjustments in scheduling. Tara Kripowicz Faculty Support Services 617-496-1121 Keeps faculty assistants informed of emergency measures being taken, and manages any alterations in support to faculty and their assistants. MessageMe Administrators Login (for emergency personnel only) More from Harvard Law School Harvard Law Today News ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 ‘Do justice, Class of ’22, do justice!’ May 26, 2022 View All » Follow Us On TwitterTweets by Harvard_Law Follow Us On Instagram harvardlaw “You have got to be willing to take … risks, b Follow Us On Instagram About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.