Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Home Departments Academics Degree Programs Degree Programs Courses and Academic Programs Academic Calendar 2021-2022 Degree Programs J.D. Program Climenko Program & FYLRW Program J.D. Admissions Graduate Program Special Programs Joint JD/Master Degree Programs JD/MBA Program JD/MPP and JD/MPA-ID Programs JD/MPH Program JD/MUP Program Coordinated JD/PhD Program University of Cambridge Joint Degree Program Concurrent Degrees Semester Abroad Winter Term Abroad Programs of Study Criminal Law and Policy International and Comparative Law Law and Business Law and Government Law and History Law and Social Change Law, Science, and Technology Curriculum Course Catalog 2022-2023 Course and Schedule Updates Registration Information HLS Block Schedule HLS Canvas Links HLS Syllabi Archive Course Evaluation Guide Special Notice Regarding Course Textbooks Clinical and Pro Bono Programs Writing at HLS Writing for J.D. Students Writing for LL.M. Students Writing Prizes Additional Writing Opportunities Prizes Writing Prizes Academic Prizes Co-Curricular and Community Prizes Cross-Registration Cross-Registration Instructions for HLS Students FAQ about Cross-Registration Cross-Registration Credit Information Cross-Registration Calendar Cross-Registration for Non-HLS Students Handbook of Academic Policies Fellowships Winter Term Harvard VoIP Phone Maintenance – June 3 – 6 and June 10-13 Lecturer and Clinical Instructor, BU/MIT Startup Law Clinic – Boston University School of Law Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division – Office of the Massachusetts Attorney General Assistant Attorney General – State of New Jersey, Office of the Attorney General Associate Attorney, Securities Litigation – Block & Leviton LLP Degree Programs at Harvard Law School Degree Programs at Harvard Law School J.D. Program J.D. Program The J.D. (Juris Doctor) is a three-year program that first gives students the intellectual foundations for legal study, and then gives them the opportunity to focus their studies on areas of particular interest through advanced classes, clinics, and writing projects. Learn more Learn more LL.M. Program LL.M. Program The one-year LL.M. (Master of Laws) program provides students who already have excellent legal training and experience - many have served as practicing lawyers, judges, diplomats, community leaders, most outside the U.S. - with broad latitude to design a course of study that will give them an expanded understanding of law and legal theory. Learn more Learn more S.J.D. Program S.J.D. Program The S.J.D. (Doctor of Juridical Science) is still a more advanced degree, intended for students who wish to pursue a career in legal education. Graduates of the S.J.D. program are teaching in the world's finest law schools and producing scholarship at the highest levels. Learn more Learn more Special Programs to Enrich or Build On the J.D. Program Special Programs to Enrich or Build On the J.D. Program Joint Degree Programs Semester Abroad Joint Degree Programs For law students interested in pursuing expertise in another field, the Law School offers the following joint degree programs: Joint Degree Program in Law and Business Joint Degree Program in Law and Government Joint Degree in Law and Public Health Joint Program in Law and Urban Planning Harvard Law School and University of Cambridge J.D./LL.M. Joint Degree Program Semester Abroad Harvard Law School students have the opportunity to study abroad through numerous exchange programs with law schools in other countries or at other top-flight foreign law schools of their choosing and receive credit toward the J.D. Semester Abroad: Locations Semester Abroad: Planning and Application Semester Abroad: Academic Requirements Semester Abroad: Tuition, Expenses, Insurance and Travel About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.