Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Admissions Explore Admissions Resources J.D. Admissions Graduate Program Admissions Contact J.D. Admissions J.D. Financial Aid Graduate Program Financial Aid Contact Graduate Program Admissions POPULAR LINKS Apply to the J.D. Program Apply to the LL.M. or S.J.D. Program HLS Degree Programs HLS Degree Programs J.D. Admissions The J.D. (Juris Doctorate) at Harvard Law School is a three-year program of study that leads to an initial law degree. J.D. Admissions The J.D. (Juris Doctorate) at Harvard Law School is a three-year program of study that leads to an initial law degree. Explore J.D. Admissions Explore J.D. Admissions LL.M. Admissions The LL.M. (Master of Laws) program is a one-year advanced degree program for students who have already received their first law degrees. LL.M. Admissions The LL.M. (Master of Laws) program is a one-year advanced degree program for students who have already received their first law degrees. Explore LL.M. Admissions Explore LL.M. Admissions S.J.D. Admissions The S.J.D. (Doctor of Juridical Science) is Harvard Law School's most advanced law degree, designed for aspiring legal academics who wish to pursue sustained independent study, research and writing. S.J.D. Admissions The S.J.D. (Doctor of Juridical Science) is Harvard Law School's most advanced law degree, designed for aspiring legal academics who wish to pursue sustained independent study, research and writing. Explore S.J.D. Admissions Explore S.J.D. Admissions threeup-content Joint JD/Masters Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MPH JD/MPP and MPA-ID JD/MUP Coordinated / Concurrent Degrees JD/PhD Concurrent degrees Visiting Researchers Graduate Program Visiting Researchers / Visiting Scholars Other Research Programs Latest news from Harvard Law Today Latest news from Harvard Law Today Commencement, redux May 29, 2022 Harvard Law School Classes of 2020 and 2021 return to campus to celebrate with family and friends. Commencement, redux ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ May 29, 2022 Elizabeth Warren offered advice and encouragement at a special in-person Commencement celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. ‘Don’t spend your life doing things that don’t move your soul’ ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ May 29, 2022 On Commencement Day, Harvard Law Today caught up with some family members of graduates to hear what the day means to them. ‘It’s overwhelming and just so exciting’ ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ May 29, 2022 Harvard Law Today spoke to a few staff members who made the Commencement Day possible to find out how they support Commencement, what preparing for a triple graduation takes, and why this is one of the most special days of the year. ‘The most fun, special day on campus the whole year’ More HLS News Dispatches from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 May 28, 2022 Snapshots of a year at Harvard Law School May 26, 2022 Harvard Law Dean Manning urges ‘historic’ Class of 2022 to ‘bring about the change you desire’ May 26, 2022 ‘Comfort is overrated’ May 26, 2022 Highlights of Commencement 2022 May 26, 2022 Reflections of the Class of 2022 May 26, 2022 View all news from Harvard Law Today HLS Campus Slideshow HLS Campus Slideshow Explore the HLS campus View Gallery Credit: Brooks Kraft Credit: Brooks Kraft Credit: Brooks Kraft Credit: Brooks Kraft Credit: Brooks Kraft Credit: Brooks Kraft Credit: Tony Rinaldo Credit: Brooks Kraft Credit: Lorin Granger Credit: Brooks Kraft wysiwyg Digital Millennium Copyright Act: Annual Copyright Disclosure About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.