Skip to content Resources For: Students Alumni Faculty Staff Events About HLS Search Search Menu Admissions We search the world for you.Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Where theory meets practice: curricular depth and experiential learning.Academics & Clinical Overview Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Dedicated to excellence in teaching, scholarship, and interdisciplinary exploration.Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Unrivaled access to opportunities and support for career goals.Careers Overview Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Treasures collected from around the world, for the world.Library Overview Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News Latest information from Harvard Law School’s news publications and multimedia channels.News Overview Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Menu Events About HLS Search Explore resources for … Students Alumni Faculty Staff Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Special Programs Academics & Clinical Academics & Clinical Academic Calendar Degree Programs Course Catalog Courses and Academic Programs Handbook of Academic Policies Clinical and Pro Bono Programs International Legal Studies Office of the Registrar Continuing and Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Faculty Bibliography Visiting Faculty Appointments Fellowships Research Programs Faculty in the News Careers Careers Private Sector Career Services (OCS) Public Sector Career Services (OPIA) For Private Sector Employers For Public Sector Employers 1L Career Advising Judicial Clerkships Public Service Venture Fund Library Library Research Student Research Resources For Faculty Circulation & Access FAQs Empirical Research Digital Collections Historical & Special Collections About the Library News News Harvard Law Today Office of Communications Media Relations Harvard Law Bulletin Podcasts by HLS affiliates Harvard Law YouTube Harvard Law Twitter News@Law Photography and Multimedia HLS Bicentennial Commencement 2020 & 2021 Welcome Welcome back, Classes of 2020 & 2021! We are thrilled the University has invited the Classes of 2020 and 2021 to celebrate graduation. Below, you will find a schedule of events for the weekend, as well as helpful information to plan your visit. May 28 – May 29, 2022 We are thrilled to welcome you back to campus today! Below, please find a few important updates regarding today’s activities. Due to the threat of severe weather, all Saturday HLS Commencement activities have been moved inside. Please note the following: Graduate check-in is now located on the first floor of Wasserstein Hall The Class of 2021 should check-in in the lobby near the HLS Coop The Class of 2020 should check-in in the South Lobby, adjacent to Haas Lounge Walk-in registration will be available for graduates only from 12-7p.m. in the spaces noted above Anyone staying in HLS housing should check in in the South Lobby, adjacent to Haas Lounge The Information Tent outside adjacent to Kumble Plaza will not be used today Please visit the Information table inside the WCC South Lobby with any questions Parking is available in the 10 Everett St garage on a first-come, first-served basis Saturday Social Reunions and Tours We are excited to announce the addition of a “Last Lecture,” today featuring Professors Mark Wu and Naz Modirzadeh! Seating will be limited, and tickets will be distributed at check-in on a first-come, first-served basis. Today’s schedule of events from 2-5 p.m. today is as follows: 2pm – 2:30pm “Last Lecture” with Professors Modirzadeh and Wu (tickets required) Location: Austin Hall 2:30pm – 4:00pm J.D. Section Reunions Location: Milstein West & WCC 2nd floor 2:30pm – 4:00pm Grad Program Open House Location: Hark & Hark South 4:00pm – 5:00pm Student group/organization reunions Location: WCC Student Org Workroom & 2nd floor classrooms In addition to the above spaces dedicated to social reunion activities, don’t forget to visit the HLS Library’s Rare Books Room and take part in a tour of the Library’s Reading Room! Snacks and beverages will be available throughout WCC, including in Haas Lounge and the Pub. Welcome Back Barristers’ Ball will take place from 7 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. tonight at the Sheraton Commander Hotel. Graduates who registered in advance will be permitted to enter between 7-8:30 p.m. Tickets are required for those who preregistered; you should have an electronic ticket in your email. Graduates who were not able to preregister may enter after 8:30 p.m., space permitting. Please note that due to limited capacity, +1’s are not permitted. We can’t wait to see you! Saturday, May 28, 2022 Saturday, May 28, 2022 Check-in, 12-7 p.m., Tent at Belinda Sutton Quadrangle Check-in for HLS events and housing will begin at noon on Saturday, May 28. At check-in, we will distribute your welcome bag, housing assignments (if applicable), and graduate lanyards required for entry to Sunday’s University Ceremony. Social Reunions and Campus Tours, 2-5 p.m. Enjoy snacks and beverages as you reunite with sectionmates, affinity groups, and student organizations. Self-guided campus tours will also be available. 2pm – 2:30pm “Last Lecture” with Professors Modirzadeh and Wu (tickets required) Location: Austin Hall 2:30pm – 4:00pm J.D. Section Reunions Location: Milstein West/Terrace/2nd floor WCC 2:30pm – 4:00pm Grad Program Open House Location: Hark & Hark South 4:00pm – 5:00pm Student group/organization reunions Location: WCC Student Org Workroom & 2nd floor WCC classrooms In addition to the above spaces dedicated to social reunion activities, don’t forget to visit the HLS Library’s Rare Books Room and take part in a tour of the Library’s Reading Room! Snacks and beverages will be available throughout WCC, including in Haas Lounge and the Pub. Please note: Graduates may bring an unlimited number of guests to this unticketed event. Guest registration is not required. Welcome Back Barristers Ball, 7-11:30 p.m., Sheraton Commander Hotel, Cambridge MA Reconnect, mingle, and celebrate with classmates as you indulge in hors d’oeuvres, drinks, and maybe even a little dancing! Please note: Due to venue capacity, this event is restricted to HLS graduates from the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Sunday, May 29, 2022 Sunday, May 29, 2022 5:30 a.m.-10:30 a.m. Sunrise Breakfast, 5:30-6:30 a.m., Haas Lounge and Crossroads Patio Gather for a continental breakfast, regalia check, and gavel distribution prior to the Class March to Harvard Yard. Graduates who are unable to check-in on Saturday may also check-in at this time. Guests are welcome to join for breakfast. Class March, 6:30 a.m., Crossroads Patio Muster for the traditional Class March to Harvard Yard, led by Dean John F. Manning and the 2020 and 2021 Class Marshals. The procession departs at 6:30 a.m., sharp! University Exercises, 8 a.m., Tercentenary Theater The University-wide Commencement Ceremony (also known as Morning Exercises), featuring U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland ’74, J.D. ’77 as principal speaker, will begin at 8 a.m. EST. 11 a.m.-4 p.m. Class of 2021 Diploma Ceremony and Brunch, 11 a.m.-12:20 p.m., Holmes Field A largely traditional HLS Diploma Ceremony, with photo ops, the traditional stage walk, and of course, plenty of pomp and circumstance! “Grab and go” brunch will be provided, with additional options available at the Farewell Reception. Please note: Graduates may bring an unlimited number of guests to this unticketed event. Guest registration is not required. Class of 2020 Brunch, 11 a.m.-12 p.m., Belinda Sutton Quadrangle and Crossroads Patio Prior to the HLS Diploma Ceremony for the Class of 2020, enjoy a refreshing brunch with your guests and classmates. Please note: Graduates may bring an unlimited number of guests to this unticketed event. Guest registration is not required. Class Day Speaker Sen. Elizabeth Warren and HLS Dean John F. Manning, 12:25-1 p.m., Holmes Field Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren joins HLS Dean John F. Manning in conversation about the role of law in society and the ways in which she has used law to advance the public good. Please note: Graduates may bring an unlimited number of guests to this unticketed event. Guest registration is not required. Class of 2020 Diploma Ceremony, 1:10-2:25 p.m., Holmes Field A largely traditional HLS Diploma Ceremony, with photo ops, the traditional stage walk, and of course, plenty of pomp and circumstance! Please note: Graduates may bring an unlimited number of guests to this unticketed event. Guest registration is not required. Farewell Reception, 1:10-4 p.m., Belinda Sutton Quadrangle and Crossroads Patio Grab some snacks and say farewell to classmates and HLS (until your next reunion, that is!) The Class of 2021 may proceed to the Reception at 1:10 p.m.; the Class of 2020 will join the Reception at the conclusion of their Diploma Ceremony. Please note: Graduates may bring an unlimited number of guests to this unticketed event. Guest registration is not required. Information for graduates Information for graduates Registration Tickets Class March Accommodations Financial Assistance Regalia Visa Support COVID-19 Notice Registration Registration for the University ceremony will close on Friday, May 20th. The deadline to register to participate in the HLS Diploma Ceremony was Monday, May 9. (If you previously registered for the “HLS Ceremony,” there is no need to register again.) Register now! For more information, including answers to many frequently asked questions, please visit the Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 website. Tickets Saturday, May 28, 2022 Tickets are not required for the activities at HLS on Saturday. Sunday, May 29, 2022 Each graduate will receive up to three (3) guest tickets to the University-wide Commencement ceremony. HLS expects to be able to allow unlimited guests at the HLS Ceremony. Tickets will not be required. Class March We will kick off Sunday activities with a traditional Class March to Harvard Yard for the University ceremony. Graduates interested in participating should report to Haas Lounge/Crossroads at 5:30 am on Sunday morning for continental breakfast and lineup. The March, led by Dean John F. Manning and the 2020 and 2021 Class Marshals, will begin promptly at 6:30 am. Graduates must be wearing Harvard Law School academic regalia in order to process. Guests are welcome at the continental breakfast, but may not join in the procession. Accommodations The deadline for graduates to request campus housing has passed. The University will endeavor to house all graduates who requested it, but we will be limited by availability and unable to guarantee specific locations. You will be notified of the status of your request for campus housing in early May. We encourage graduates to forward hotel information to guests so they may consider booking early. A helpful list of area accommodations can be found on the University Commencement website. In addition, the University has procured three hotel blocks, and HLS has secured a block at the Freepoint Hotel in Cambridge, details for which can be found below. Freepoint Hotel Address: 220 Alewife Brook Pkwy, Cambridge, MA 02138 Rate: $499/night Availability: 5/28 and 5/29 Cutoff date: 4/28/22 Phone number: (617) 491-8000 Click to book. Financial Assistance The University is committed to making participation in the special commencement ceremony on May 29, 2022, financially feasible for all members of the Classes of 2020 and 2021 who need assistance. While there will be no charge for registration, provided meals, or campus housing for the graduates of these classes, we know that the cost of traveling to campus or purchasing regalia may be a hardship for some. The University survey for financial assistance has closed. Please email commencement_20and21@harvard.edu with any questions surrounding financial assistance. Regalia All graduating students participating in Commencement are required to wear the official Harvard Keepsake regalia, as approved by The Harvard University Commencement Office and distributed by The Harvard Coop. Graduates from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 may purchase regalia through the COOP. Please note there is a strict deadline of April 9, 2022 for all regalia purchases. Please note: If you have requested requesting financial assistance for the cost of regalia, please do not make a purchase at this time. Complete the financial assistance survey sent by the University by February 11, and the University will then be in touch with a separate process to procure your regalia. Visa Support The University can provide an invitation letter to support visa applications for graduates and their family members. To request a letter, please complete this request form and a letter will be emailed to you. COVID-19 Notice Harvard University is closely monitoring the ongoing Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Our top priority remains the health, safety, and well-being of our community, on and off-campus. All visitors to campus, including parents and guests of graduates, should be aware of University policies in place at the time of their visit. The University strongly encourages all guests to be fully vaccinated and boosted (if eligible) and if unvaccinated to complete a COVID-19 (PCR or antigen) test before arriving on campus. However, at this time, proof of vaccination or a negative test will not be required to attend the University-wide celebration or stay in campus housing. Univ FAQ Celebrating the Harvard Classes of 2020 and 2021 The University looks forward to celebrating these two exceptional classes with an in-person ceremony in Harvard Yard on Sunday, May 29, 2022. Read the University FAQ Plan your visit plan your visit Essential Information Essential Information Televised Broadcasts & Webcasts Photography COVID-19 Notice Severe Weather Plan Televised Broadcasts & Webcasts The Harvard University Commencement Exercises and the Law School Ceremony are televised and captioned live in several Law School venues and online. The Harvard Law School Commencement Exercises live stream can be viewed on the Commencement website. The Harvard University Commencement live stream can be accessed via the following webpage. Photography GradImages will be photographing the Law School ceremony and will be taking three professional photos of the graduates as they receive their diplomas. They can be reached by phone at 800-261-2576 or by e-mail at service@gradimages.com. We ask that guests who wish to photograph their graduate do so in a way that does not obstruct the view of other guests. COVID-19 Notice Harvard University is closely monitoring the ongoing Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Our top priority remains the health, safety, and well-being of our community, on and off-campus. All visitors to campus, including parents and guests of graduates, should be aware of University policies in place at the time of their visit. The University strongly encourages all guests to be fully vaccinated and boosted (if eligible) and if unvaccinated to complete a COVID-19 (PCR or antigen) test before arriving on campus. However, at this time, proof of vaccination or a negative test will not be required to attend the University-wide celebration or stay in campus housing. Severe Weather Plan May can be a rainy month in Cambridge. While we hope that we do not have to use the severe weather plan, we want you to know what to do in the event of severe weather. We encourage you to bring umbrellas if the weather looks threatening. In the event of rain, the ceremony will remain outside. If the Severe Weather Plan is in effect, you will be notified by signs posted around the Law School campus and at the Information Booth. Commencement staff will disseminate information around the campus. Getting Around Getting Around Parking & Transportation HLS Campus Map Security Parking & Transportation Parking during Commencement Week is extremely limited so guests are encouraged to use public transportation or taxi services. Questions should be directed to the University Parking Office at 617-495-3772 or parking@harvard.edu. Guests in need of transportation may use Uber® or Lyft® or call to arrange a taxi in advance (see below). If you are planning your travel times, note that traffic around Harvard Square will be quite congested. The Class Day reception should end by 6:00 p.m., the Commencement Day ceremony should end by 2:00 p.m. A taxi can meet you at the corner of Massachusetts Avenue and Everett Street, which is near the North entrance to Wasserstein Hall (1585 Massachusetts Avenue). Ambassador Brattle 617-492-1100 Cambridge Checker Cab 617-497-9000 Cambridge Taxi 617-649-7000 In addition, there is a taxi stand and an MBTA “T” Station (subway—Red Line) in Harvard Square, directly across the street from Harvard Yard. HLS Campus Map Click the map to expand Security Guests will be screened for the ceremonies and are strongly discouraged from bringing bags to the events. All items are subject to search. No strollers will be allowed in Harvard Yard. Degree candidates must have their student IDs visible. Degree candidates will not be admitted to any of the ceremonies on Commencement Day without their Harvard Law School ID. Guest Support Guest Support Guests with Disabilities First Aid Nursing Facilities Lost & Found Questions Guests with Disabilities If you or your guests are in need of disability accommodations for Class Day or Commencement Day, please complete this form by May 15, 2022. Any questions can be directed to accessibility@law.harvard.edu. First Aid If there is an emergency, call 911. All guests requiring medical attention may visit the First Aid station located across from the Information Booth between the Caspersen Student Center and Hauser Hall. Nursing Facilities Nursing facilities will be available for guests and attendees who would like access to a private space for the purpose of nursing or pumping. A lactation room will be available in the Cabot Science Center from 8:00am-8:00pm Saturday, May 28 and 11:00am-8:00pm on Sunday, May 29. Please visit the Information Booth for access and additional information. Please email commencement@law.harvard.edu in advance with questions. Lost & Found Any found items will be collected and held at Holmes Hall, Room 4 (1st Floor, Facilities). Following the ceremony, guests may inquire about lost items at the HLS Facilities Office by phone at 617-495-5521 or e-mail at facmgmt@law.harvard.edu. Questions The Information Tent is conveniently located on Kumble Plaza, between Wasserstein and Hauser Hall. Law School Commencement Staff will be available around the Law School campus to assist with questions about the Class Day and Commencement ceremonies. Look for the crimson polo shirts! Helpful Hints Helpful Hints What to Wear Flowers for Graduates Refreshments Area Hotels What to Wear Business casual attire is common dress for the Commencement ceremonies and guests are advised to wear shoes appropriate for walking on grassy areas. In May, the weather in Cambridge is unpredictable, so guests should plan for a range of temperatures and weather conditions. A jacket and umbrella will come in handy. All ceremonies are held outdoors, except in the event of severe weather. For more information on Harvard Law School’s severe weather plan, please see our Severe Weather Plan Info Tab. Flowers for Graduates Anyone who wishes to purchase flower bouquets on the Harvard Law School campus for a graduate will be able to do so on Commencement Day. Bouquets can also be pre-ordered at https://www.thecommencementgroup.com/harvardlaw/ Flower tent locations will be posted soon. Refreshments Refreshments will be available for purchase on the HLS campus. Hours of operation and location(s) will be posted soon. Area Hotels Click here to view HLS Area Hotels Virtual Commencement Coverage Virtual Commencement Coverage Class Day 2021 Revisit the 2021 Class Day virtual ceremony Class Day 2021 Revisit the 2021 Class Day virtual ceremony View the recording View the recording Commencement 2021 Revisit the 2021 HLS virtual Commencement Ceremony Commencement 2021 Revisit the 2021 HLS virtual Commencement Ceremony View the recording View the recording University Morning Exercises 2021 Revisit the 2021 virtual Morning Exercises University Morning Exercises 2021 Revisit the 2021 virtual Morning Exercises View the recording View the recording Commencement 2020 Revisit the 2020 HLS virtual Commencement Ceremony Commencement 2020 Revisit the 2020 HLS virtual Commencement Ceremony View the recording View the recording 2019-2020 In Pictures In the true spirit of Harvard Law School, students, faculty, and staff remained dedicated to learning and to service, reaching out from around the world to support each other and their communities. 2019-2020 In Pictures In the true spirit of Harvard Law School, students, faculty, and staff remained dedicated to learning and to service, reaching out from around the world to support each other and their communities. View the recording View the recording University Morning Exercises 2020 Revisit the 2020 virtual Morning Exercises University Morning Exercises 2020 Revisit the 2020 virtual Morning Exercises View the recording View the recording Commencement Dining Services Title Commencement Dining Services Commencement Dining Services Info The Pub Grill is open 5/25 through 5/29 from 8 am – 3 pm, with weekend service (5/28-5/29) being grab and go packaged items only. The Harkbox is open 5/25-5/27 from 8 am – 3 pm, and closed on the weekend. About Contact or Visit HLS Accessibility Media Relations HLS Bicentennial Apply J.D. LL.M. S.J.D. Special Programs Academics Academic Calendar Course Catalog Curriculum Helios Alumni Giving to HLS HLS Amicus HLSA Harvard Law School Reunions Administration Dean’s Welcome Department Directory Human Resources Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Campus Student Services Student Organizations Sustainability HLS Calendar of Events Publications Faculty Publications Student Journals Harvard Law Today HLS Case Studies General Harvard University Careers at HLS Title IX Information Emergency Information Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube News RSS Feed Privacy and Copyright Trademark Notice Digital Accessibility © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College.