Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology University Teaching & Learning Resources for University Faculty and Students. Breadcrumb Home Education Sub Navigation In This Section University Teaching & Learning Faculty Fellows Program PreK-12 Programs Public Programs University Teaching & Learning Resources for University Faculty and Students. Access the Museum's University Resources Discover how the Museum can accommodate your teaching and research needs, apply for the Faculty Fellows Program, join the Haffenreffer Museum Student Group, or discover our student employment and internship opportunities. Important Notice Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the Museum's gallery in Manning Hall will be open by appointment only to Brown and RISD instructors and students starting October 1, 2021. Click here to request a gallery visit appointment. Museum staff can also facilitate virtual CultureLab sessions for Brown and RISD classes using objects featured in the Online Catalogue. Click here to request a virtual CultureLab session. We look forward to reopening in-person public programs when it is safe to do so. Teach and Learn with the HMA! Museums can be transformative teaching spaces. The Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology welcomes instructors and students to engage with options for teaching and learning with the Museum this semester. Download: Spring 2022 Academic Support Options Virtual Resources Integrate the Museum’s virtual resources into your curriculum. All of the following materials are free and readily available online. View the 2020 exhibition, Transient Matter. Use the accompanying discussion guide to deepen class conversations and prompt reflection. Explore the Haffenreffer Museum collection via the Online Catalogue. View past talks with scholars, artists, and other noted guests. Read Museum publications, including past exhibition catalogues. Visit the Museum The gallery in Manning Hall will be open by appointment only to Brown and RISD instructors and students starting October 1, 2021. Visitors can view the current exhibition, Transient Matter: Assemblages of Migration in the Mediterranean. All visitors to the Museum must comply with the latest COVID guidance issued by Brown, found at healthy.brown.edu. Submit a gallery visit request at least two weeks in advance of your desired date. Appointments can be made Mondays through Fridays from 9 am to 6 pm. Go to bit.ly/HMAGalleryVisit to see the gallery's current availability. CultureLab Museum staff can facilitate virtual CultureLab sessions using objects featured in the Online Catalogue. Staff will work with instructors to support coursework with dynamic, object-based learning opportunities for classes via Zoom, including creating highlight groups (examples available on the online catalogue) specifically for your students. Submit a virtual CultureLab session request at least two weeks in advance of your desired date. Instructors can select from a list of topics or propose specific objects from the Online Catalogue. Research Objects inspire questions, and the Museum supports instructors, students, and researchers in answering those questions. To inquire about using the Museum’s collections, archives, or Circumpolar Laboratory for your research, email a completed Research Request/Collections Access form to HaffenrefferMuseum@brown.edu. Please note that researchers are responsible for their own transportation to/from the Collections Research Center, open by appointment only in Bristol, RI. Internships Students from any university may propose internship projects for the Museum. Past projects have focused on collections management, education, exhibitions, public relations, conservation, and independent research. Interns must work with a faculty advisor from their institution and Museum staff to determine the project’s scope and timeline. Students are expected to work at least one day per week during their internship and can receive course credit or, in some cases, a small stipend. Brown University students usually enroll in ANTH 1970 (for undergraduate students) or ANTH 2980 (for graduate students). Brown University undergraduate students can also partner with the Museum for an UTRA award. American Indian/Alaska Native students at Brown University are eligible to submit proposals for the Rudolf F. Haffenreffer 3rd Internship. Awarded on a competitive basis, this semester-long internship is supported by a stipend. Proctorships The Museum works with Brown University departments to arrange proctorships for graduate students interested in gaining practical museum skills and/or pursuing independent research projects with the Museum’s collections or archives. All proctorship appointments must be approved by the Director of Graduate Studies in the student’s home department and by the Graduate School. We recommend consulting with the Museum to identify interested students and coordinate projects. Please note that proctors placed at the Museum are expected to work 15-20 hours per week at the Collections Research Center, located in Bristol, RI. Regular access to a vehicle is highly recommended. Collecting Grants Brown University instructors and students conducting field research are encouraged to apply for Collecting Grants. A limited number of small grants are available for the collection of objects that contribute to the Museum’s mission. Email HaffenrefferMuseum@brown.edu for more information. The hands-on approach to highly meaningful objects allowed the students to overcome the traditional framing of the museum experience... The class proved to be extraordinarily enriching to all the participants, and to raise several issues that will stay with us throughout the semester. Pedro Lopes de Almeida Ph.D. Student, Portuguese and Brazilian Studies - POBS 0620: Mapping the Portuguese-Speaking Cultures: Portugal and Africa Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search University Teaching & Learning Open details for University Teaching & Learning Bookmark this Page