Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Date December 9, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Mellon Seeds: An Example of Indigenous Repair Using Local Materials By Rika Smith This is the fifth installment of "Mellon Seeds." In the ongoing series, the Museum’s collection team shares stories emerging from their current work on two inventory projects funded by the Mellon Foundation: “Engaging the Americas” and “Transforming the Haffenreffer.” The projects will culminate in the Museum’s move to Providence. One of the goals of the Mellon Foundation’s grant to the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology is to carry out condition assessments of the collection to determine which objects will require stabilization treatment before packing to prevent damage during the move to Providence. Conservator Rika Smith recently began the condition survey of 1,000+ pottery objects, including some from the American Southwest. One Hopi water canteen with a remarkable indigenous repair also revealed the use of a local plant product as a cork. Hopi pottery canteen (accession #75-271) showing extensive waterproof repair using pine pitch. This large Hopi water canteen dating to the mid-19th century was damaged and sustained a significant hole in its side. The canteen must have been a much-valued object because it was repaired with a large waterproof plug made from pine pitch. The Hopi also use pine pitch to waterproof pots and to mend cracks. Decorative brushwork of the Polacca polychrome in a Palhik Mana design Natural materials such as leaves, fibers, and fabrics were also used as corks. A small corn cob wrapped in cotton cloth served as the cork in this canteen. Sustainable repairs from local natural materials! Detail of corncob and cotton textile used as a cork Photos taken by Juan Arce Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Topics Social Sciences Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Mellon Seeds: An Example of Indigenous Repair Using Local Materials Open details for Mellon Seeds: An Example of Indigenous Repair Using Local Materials Bookmark this Page