Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Date January 13, 2022 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email We're Hiring! Brown University's Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology is now accepting applications for three positions: Associate Director, Administrative/ Communications Coordinator, and Circumpolar Laboratory Inventory Project Manager. More information for each position can be found at Brown University’s online hiring portal. Applications are only accepted through the portal. Associate Director Full Time, Regular, Salary Grade 12 The Associate Director will work collaboratively with the Director to fulfill the educational mission of the museum through its exhibitions, programming, acquisitions, and engagement with faculty, staff, students and the community of Providence and surrounding areas. This position is responsible for managing and providing leadership for the administrative, financial, and human resources operations to fulfill the museum’s objectives. Candidates must have a doctoral degree in anthropology or museum studies and 5 to 7 years of experience in an academic museum. Administrative/Communications Coordinator Full Time, Regular, Salary Grade 8 The Administrative/Communications Coordinator is responsible for providing day to day administrative services in support of the Museum’s activities and projects, as well as assisting with coordinating general operational and communicative needs. This position also coordinates public relations materials and communications with Brown's Public Relations services, oversees the production and distribution of the Museum's annual report and newsletters, coordinates the Museum's membership and Friends Board, and updates the Museum's website and social media. Candidates must have a bachelor's degree with a minimum of 2-3 years of related experience, or equivalent combination of education and work experience. Circumpolar Laboratory Inventory Project Manager Full-time, Fixed Term, Salary Grade 9 The Museum seeks an archaeologist with Arctic training and collection management skills to serve as Project Manager for the last year of a US National Park Service-funded project inventorying and rehousing collections from important Alaskan archaeological sites at Cape Krusenstern, Onion Portage, and along the Kobuk and Noatak Rivers. Candidates must have a BA or higher degree in anthropology, archaeology, museum studies, or a related field, and should have professional knowledge of cultural resources, principles, and concepts as would be acquired by possession of at least one full year of graduate-level education in archaeology or 2-3 years of documented work in collections management for an institution with comparable archaeological collections. Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, gender, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, race, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. If you have any questions, please email HaffenrefferMuseum@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Topics Social Sciences Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search We're Hiring! Open details for We're Hiring! Bookmark this Page