Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Public Programs Breadcrumb Home Education Sub Navigation In This Section University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Upcoming Events Check our calendar for upcoming events and programs. Public Programs The Haffenreffer Museum welcomes you to attend dynamic, free public programs, including workshops, open houses, poetry readings, talks, and more. 1 of 5 2 of 5 3 of 5 4 of 5 5 of 5 Important Notice Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, our programs are limited to virtual offerings. We look forward to reopening in-person programs when it is safe to do so. Program & Events Information Check the calendar for upcoming event details. Visit the Museum’s YouTube playlist to view a selection of past programs. Sign up for our e-newsletter to keep up to date with upcoming events. Find details on past events. View the complete list of the Endowed Series Past Events. Recurring Programs In addition to a variety of programming inspired by current exhibitions, faculty and student projects, and other topics, the Museum invites you to attend the following recurring programs. International Archaeology Day (Third Saturday in October) Celebrate International Archaeology Day at the Haffenreffer Museum! Meet staff and students who work behind the scenes, engage with objects from around the world at our touch table, and enjoy light refreshments. World Anthropology Day (Third Thursday in February) Celebrate Anthropology Day at the Haffenreffer Museum! Try your hand at games from around the world, learn new board games with the Providence Gaming Guild, or bring your own game to share. Snacks and #AnthroDay swag available while supplies last! Escape the Haffenreffer! (Various dates) Don’t miss Escape the Haffenreffer!, an escape room experience at the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology! Team up with friends to crack codes, solve puzzles, and Escape the Haffenreffer. The in-person game is held once a semester. Spots are limited, tickets are free. The virtual game is available online. The game is family-friendly and suggested for individual players aged 12 and up for puzzle difficulty. Play now: bit.ly/EscapeHMA2021 Hands-On Workshops (Various dates) *More information coming soon! Endowed Programs Thanks to generous donors to the Museum’s endowed funds, we invite scholars, culture bearers, artists, and other thought-leaders to the Museum to share their knowledge with Brown University and the wider community. The following endowments honor individuals with deep connections to the Haffenreffer Museum who have shaped the institution in lasting ways. Barbara Greenwald Memorial Arts Program This program reflects the passions and interests that Barbara Greenwald demonstrated for the Museum and its programs. Barbara joined the Museum’s inaugural docent program in 1968 and she was a founding member and past president of the Friends Association Board, which she served for 25 years. Barbara has been celebrated as one the staunchest supporters of the Museum, and the memorial program features practicing artists or artisans, performance groups, museum educators with an interest in experiential, hands-on education, collectors of ethnographic materials, or museum professionals known for their support of public programs. Barbara A. and Edward G. Hail Lecture Series This lecture series honors the service, support, and scholarship of Barbara A. and Edward G. Hail with an annual talk relating to one of their many interests in material culture, collecting, and museums. Barbara, former Deputy Director and Curator of the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology and a noted scholar of Native American art and culture, redefined the Museum’s role in interpreting Native American art. Barbara retired in 2002, after 33 years of devoted service to the Haffenreffer Museum and Brown University. Edward, Associate Dean at Brown University from 1970-1989, was an enthusiastic supporter of the Haffenreffer Museum and President of its Friends Association. Jane Powell Dwyer Memorial Lecture Jane Powell Dwyer’s family, friends, and colleagues established a memorial lecture series on the general subjects of anthropology and art upon Jane’s passing in 1982 at the age of 51. Jane, an archaeologist and expert on ancient textiles, came to Brown in 1971 as an Associate Professor of Anthropology. At that time, she became Director of the Haffenreffer Museum and founder of the Museum Studies graduate program. Under her directorship, the Museum facilities were completely refurbished, the Museum staff expanded, a publication series was launched, and the Friends Association was founded. Shepard Krech III Lecture Series This lecture series focuses on environmental anthropology, museums, and/or Native Americans/Indigenous peoples and, particularly, the intersection of those domains. These talks focus on issues of long-standing research interest to Professor Shepard Krech III, former director of the Haffenreffer Museum, including Indigenous peoples and the environment, humans and the environment, impacts of humans on the environment, cultural relationships between humans and animals, museums and anthropological collections with a focus on Native American, especially subarctic and northern, Indigenous cultures. Upcoming Events Check our calendar for upcoming events and programs. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Public Programs Open details for Public Programs Bookmark this Page