Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Inspiring creative and critical thinking about culture by fostering interdisciplinary understanding of the material world. Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Inspiring creative and critical thinking about culture by fostering interdisciplinary understanding of the material world. Join the HMA Team The Haffenreffer Museum is actively accepting applications for multiple open positions. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis and positions are open until filled. Apply Today! The Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology is Brown University’s teaching and research museum. A resource across the university, we inspire creative and critical thinking about culture by fostering interdisciplinary understanding of the material world. We provide opportunities for faculty and students to work with collections and the public, teaching through objects and programs in classrooms, in the gallery in Manning Hall, and at the Collections Research Center. Popular Links Current Exhibits Currently on Display at the Haffenreffer Museum. Visit Page Open details for Current Exhibits Online Catalogue Explore the Collection through the Online Catalogue. Visit Page Open details for Online Catalogue Support the Museum Become a Member of the Haffenreffer Museum Friends. Visit Page Open details for Support the Museum Public Programs The Haffenreffer Museum welcomes you to attend dynamic, free public programs, including workshops, open houses, poetry readings, talks, and more. Visit Page Open details for Public Programs Research Past and Present Research at the Haffenreffer Museum. Visit Page Open details for Research Recent News News from HMA We're Hiring! January 13, 2022 Brown University's Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology is now accepting applications for three positions: Associate Director, Administrative/ Communications Coordinator, and Circumpolar Laboratory Inventory Project Manager. Read Article Open details for We&#039;re Hiring! News from HMA Mellon Seeds: An Example of Indigenous Repair Using Local Materials December 9, 2021 This is the fifth installment of "Mellon Seeds." In the ongoing series, the Museum’s collection team shares stories emerging from their current work on two inventory projects funded by the Mellon Foundation: “Engaging the Americas” and “Transforming the Haffenreffer.” The projects will culminate in the Museum’s move to Providence. Read Article Open details for Mellon Seeds: An Example of Indigenous Repair Using Local Materials News from HMA Mellon Seeds: Ask Thierry July 26, 2021 This is the fourth installment of "Mellon Seeds". In the ongoing series, the Museum’s collection team shares stories emerging from their current work on two inventory projects funded by the Mellon Foundation: “Engaging the Americas” and “Transforming the Haffenreffer.” The projects will culminate in the Museum’s move to Providence. Read Article Open details for Mellon Seeds: Ask Thierry “ We acknowledge that the Haffenreffer Museum currently resides on the traditional homelands of the Narragansett and Wampanoag peoples, who have stewarded this land through the generations. We recognize and respect their enduring relationships to this place, in the past, present, and future. ” Haffenreffer Museum Land Acknowledgement Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Open details for Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Bookmark this Page