Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Collection Haffenreffer Museum Collection Details, Catalogue, and Policies. Sub Navigation In This Section Online Catalogue Archive Policies Collection Haffenreffer Museum Collection Details, Catalogue, and Policies. When Brown University received Rudolf Haffenreffer's private museum from his family in 1955, its collections included 60,000 objects from the Native cultures of the Americas. Under Brown's stewardship, the collections have grown in breadth and depth through fieldwork, donations, and strategic acquisitions to reflect the research interests of Brown faculty and students. The Haffenreffer Museum's permanent collection now includes over 150,000 ethnographic and archaeological objects from all over the world, and forms the basis for research, exhibitions, and community outreach. The Museum collection illustrates and documents human cultures and societies worldwide. The collection is strong in the indigenous arts of the Americas, Africa, and Southeast Asia, along with smaller collections from other parts of the world. Online Catalogue Explore the Collection through the Online Catalogue. Visit Page Open details for Online Catalogue Archive The Haffenreffer Museum's Archival Collection. Visit Page Open details for Archive Circumpolar Laboratory Archaeological Research Facility for the Circumpolar North. Visit Page Open details for Circumpolar Laboratory Collections Research Center Located in Bristol, Rhode Island. Visit Page Open details for Collections Research Center Policies Collection Management Policy, Access Forms, and Resources. Visit Page Open details for Policies Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Collection Open details for Collection Bookmark this Page