Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Plan Your Visit Visit Details for the Manning Hall Gallery and Collection Research Center. Breadcrumb Home Connect Sub Navigation In This Section Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Plan Your Visit Visit Details for the Manning Hall Gallery and Collection Research Center. Important Notice Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the Museum's gallery in Manning Hall will be open by appointment only to Brown and RISD instructors and students starting October 1, 2021. Click here to request a gallery visit appointment. We look forward to reopening in-person public programs when it is safe to do so. Manning Hall Gallery Visit the Haffenreffer Museum's exhibits and CultureLab in the Manning Hall Gallery, located on Brown University's campus in Providence, Rhode Island. Admission: Free! Open: Tuesday - Sunday, 10 AM - 4 PM Closed Mondays and Brown University Holidays. Address: Manning Hall, First Floor Brown University Main Green 21 Prospect Street Providence, RI 02912 Contact Us: 401-863-2065 Accessibility: The building is wheelchair accessible from the Prospect Street entry. Please call ahead if you require assistance. Parking: There are limited metered two-hour parking near the Museum, and though it is usually possible to find parking within a few blocks, visitors are encouraged to allow enough time to find parking. There is also a Visitor Parking Lot located at the corner of Power and Thayer Streets. Campus maps, accessibility maps, parking maps, and a welcome map (which helpfully includes the orientation of nearby one-way streets) are available from Brown's Department of Facilities Management. Current Exhibits Currently on Display at the Haffenreffer Museum. Visit Page Open details for Current Exhibits Events Visit Page Open details for Events Collection Research Center Located in Bristol, Rhode Island, the Haffenreffer Museum's Collection Research Center houses the Museum's staff offices and research spaces, including the Circumpolar Laboratory. The Collection Research Center is not open to the public; University faculty, students, and researchers may request access by appointment and determined by staff availability. Collections Research Center Located in Bristol, Rhode Island. Visit Page Open details for Collections Research Center Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Plan Your Visit Open details for Plan Your Visit Bookmark this Page