Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Support the Museum Become a Member of the Haffenreffer Museum Friends. Breadcrumb Home Connect Sub Navigation In This Section Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Support the Museum Become a Member of the Haffenreffer Museum Friends. Important Notice We are currently not accepting membership donations while we undergo staffing changes. These include all credit card and check donations, for e-card and print card memberships. We look forward to reopening our memberships as soon as we can. If you have any questions, please email: HaffenrefferMuseum@brown.edu As a Friend of the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology, you support the Museum's activities at every level. Your membership helps to sponsor public programs, purchase special gifts for the museum, and provide matching funds for challenge grants made by state and federal granting agencies. In becoming a Friend of the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology, you help us to fulfill the Haffenreffer's mission. General Members receive subscriptions to Contexts, our newsletter; advance announcements of exhibition openings, films, lectures, tours, and other events, and FREE or reduced admission rates to 300+ global museums and science centers through the Association of Science and Technology Centers (ASTC) partnership. Donors' Circle Members receive all the benefits of general membership plus additional benefits including free Haffenreffer Museum publications and invitations to VIP events. Membership Categories Brown/RISD Students (Free) General membership benefits to individual Brown and RISD students. Sign up for free using your university email address. Brown University Faculty (Free) Faculty at Brown University also receive Free individual membership. Sign up with your university email address. Student ($15) $15 | General membership benefits for students with a valid ID from any university or college other than Brown or RISD. Individual ($25) General membership for a single member. Dual/Couple ($30) General membership benefits for two named members. Plus One ($30) General membership benefits for one named member and one guest. Family ($35) General membership benefits for two named adults and their children or grandchildren under the age of 18. Contributing ($50 - $99) Saville Society ($100 - $249) Giddings Society ($250 - $499) Mount Hope Society ($500 - $999) Haffenreffer Society ($1,000+) Show More Policies Membership donations are tax-deductible. Return Policy: We do not offer refunds on any membership donations. To become a member, you may donate either online with a credit card or by sending a check by mail: Membership Form (PDF) The Haffenreffer Museum 300 Tower Street Bristol, RI 02809 DO NOT hand-deliver your membership deposit to any Haffenreffer Museum staff, and DO NOT send your credit card information by email as this is not a secure practice and would put your personal information at risk. Call 401-863-5700 or email HaffenrefferMuseum@brown.edu if you have membership questions. ASTC The Haffenreffer Museum is a member of the Association of Science and Technology Centers. Your Friends membership entitles you to admission to hundreds of other museums through the ASTC Passport Program. Search the full list of participating museums on the ASTC website. (Some restrictions apply, check with the museum you are visiting for their ASTC acceptance policy.) Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Support the Museum Open details for Support the Museum Bookmark this Page