Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Grant Projects Grant-funded Research, Education, and Conservation Projects. Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Grant Projects Grant-funded Research, Education, and Conservation Projects. The Haffenreffer Museum has been the recipient of numerous grants supporting research, inventory, conservation, and other vital work. Transforming the Haffenreffer Museum (2019-2022) The Haffenreffer Museum received a grant of $5 million from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to inventory the museum’s collections and transfer them from their current location in Bristol to Providence, RI (yet to be announced). This project will improve collections care, enhance academic study, increase public accessibility, and facilitate greater engagement with Native American and other communities. Engaging the Americas (2018-2022) This Andrew W. Mellon Foundation grant supports improving physical and intellectual stewardship of the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology's Native American and Indigenous collections and furthers their integration in the Brown curriculum. The Circumpolar Laboratory Inventory Project (CLIP) (2017-2021) The CLIP is the result of a five-year cooperative agreement with the National Park Service (NPS) to inventory and re-house the federally owned collections in the CPL. Led by Annalisa Heppner, M.A. the CLIP has completed a baseline inventory for the majority of the Cape Krusenstern, Onion Portage, Noatak River sites, and other small sites, totaling ca. 300,000 artifacts. Assemblages (2014 - 2017) The Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology and the RISD Museum received grants from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for “Assemblages,” a four-year collaborative initiative focusing on the new and evolving field of object-based teaching and research. Archaeological Investigation of the Eastern North Atlantic Trade and Globalizing Economic Systems Supported by the National Science Foundation, this archaeological research focuses on the development of trade networks in the North Atlantic and women's role in weaving cloth and participating in these trade networks for 1000 years. Research Associate Dr. Michèle Hayeur Smith's earlier research showed that nearly 1,000 years ago the Vikings traded and sold cloth in London and other European markets. Surtshellir Archaeological Project Archaeological and natural scientific investigations of Surtshellir cave, Iceland, led by Kevin Smith, Deputy Director of the Haffenreffer Museum, funded by the National Science Foundation. This list outlines some of the Haffenreffer Museum's most recent grant-funded projects. We look forward to updating this list with more details and older grant projects as we continue to update this webpage. If you have questions about any past or current grant projects, please email HaffenrefferMuseum@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Grant Projects Open details for Grant Projects Bookmark this Page