Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Student Group Join Like-minded Students in Exploring Museums. Breadcrumb Home Connect Sub Navigation In This Section Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Student Group Join Like-minded Students in Exploring Museums. About the Student Group Are you intrigued by a career in museums? Ever wondered what happens behind-the-scenes? Do you like to talk and think about museums? The Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Student Group welcomes undergraduate and graduate students who are interested in exploring museums with like-minded peers. Members participate in professional development opportunities, work on projects, take field trips to local museums, and regularly discuss issues facing museums today. Connect with the Student Group Submit an Interest Form Subscribe to the Listserv Join the Facebook Group Student Group Leaders Béatrice Duchastel de Montrouge Béatrice Duchastel de Montrouge is a sophomore from Seattle, Washington double concentrating in American Studies and the History of Art and Architecture. As a lifelong museum lover, she is excited to be a co-president of the Haffenreffer Museum Student Group and hopes to one day be a museum curator. Outside of studying museums, history, and art, she loves conducting in the Brown Band and hanging out on the fourth floor of the Rock. Kristen Marchetti Kristen Marchetti is a senior concentrating in Visual Art and the History of Art and Architecture. Originally from Massachusetts, she has loved visiting museums since she was in a stroller. She is especially interested in the way that museums can bring people together to learn more deeply about the world and is thrilled to serve as co-president of the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Student Group. Facebook Twitter Instagram Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student Group Open details for Student Group Bookmark this Page