Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Policies Collection Management Policy, Access Forms, and Resources. Breadcrumb Home Collection Sub Navigation In This Section Online Catalogue Archive Policies Policies Collection Management Policy, Access Forms, and Resources. Collection Management Policy The Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology's Collections Policy establishes policies for acquisitions, loans, deaccessions, and other collection management issues. It affirms that HMA shall be in full compliance with laws and regulations, both domestic and international, governing the transfer of ownership of objects and their movement across political boundaries; and that it shall continue to meet the highest ethical standards in all of its activities. As such, it is a living and changing document that responds, over time, to changes in the ways that museums interact with the communities they represent and in which they are situated, as well as to changes in the legal, ethical, and professional standards that govern museums, our fields, and the collections that we curate. Haffenreffer Museum Collection Policy (PDF) Accessing the Collection or Archive All responsible researchers shall have access to the collection for legitimate research and study, subject to guidelines described in the Research Access Request/Collection Access Form and by limitations of normal operating hours, exhibition requirements, available study space, and the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology’s staff availability. To request access, please download, complete, and email the form to HaffenrefferMuseum@brown.edu. Research Access Request/Collection Access Form (PDF) Image Use Permission To request image permission, please download, complete, and email the Agreement for Image Use Permission form to HaffenrefferMuseum@brown.edu. Reproduction fees may be charged to researchers. No distinctions in such charges shall be made on the basis of the value or rarity of the original materials. Methods of reproduction may be limited if necessary to preserve the originals. Agreement for Image Use Permission Form (PDF) Copyright and Other Protection Researchers should note that compliance with Copyright law is the responsibility of the researcher. Fair Use Permitted Brown University expects that all members of the University community respect the rights of ownership of intellectual property by adhering to United States copyright law. The principle of fair use as set forth in the copyright act provides essential limitations to the exclusive rights of copyright owners that support the University's mission of teaching, scholarship, research, and free inquiry. In an effort to balance copyright law with fair use principles, Brown University is committed to providing tools and resources to the University community to assist decision-making in this complex environment. Third Party Rights DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT. The Haffenreffer Museum complies with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (17 U.S.C. §512). If you believe that your work has been copied in a way that constitutes copyright infringement on the Site, please contact HaffenrefferMuseum@brown.edu. Terms of Use The Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology, Brown University (the “HMA”) operates this website (the “Site”) in support of its mission to inspire creative and critical thinking about global cultures, past and present, through interdisciplinary understandings of the material world. The Museum sponsors original research, innovative teaching, and public education while stewarding a collection of over one million archaeological and ethnographic objects. The HMA encourages awareness and broad access to collections of historical, cultural, and artistic significance. By using this Site, you accept and agree to be bound by these Terms of Use. If you do not agree to these terms of use, please refrain from use of this Site. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Policies Open details for Policies Bookmark this Page