Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Education Learning Resources, Events, and Programs. Sub Navigation In This Section University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Education Learning Resources, Events, and Programs. Celebrating Cultural Differences. Embracing Human Similarities. Education is fundamental to the Haffenreffer Museum’s mission and to the mission of Brown University. As a teaching museum, accessibility, accountability, and advocacy are integral to our gallery teaching, PreK-12 outreach, public programs, and community engagement initiatives. Accessibility We aim to engage a multitude of communities, on campus and beyond, by offering interdisciplinary, object-based, and people-centered educational opportunities that foster curiosity about and respect for all people. We support a reciprocal model of scholarly exchange by welcoming a diversity of perspectives and inviting a broad range of knowledge keepers. As much as possible, we offer no-cost educational opportunities—in the gallery, via outreach, and virtually—to diminish the physical, socio-economic, and cultural barriers to accessing the Haffenreffer Museum. Accountability We strive for excellence in the development of educational opportunities through extensive content research, best practices in pedagogy and learning theory, and consultation with stakeholder communities. We’re taking active steps towards centering first-person perspectives and community-led collaboration in developing educational opportunities. We honor our existing partnerships, as well as seek new partnerships and ways to share resources with communities and organizations. We are committed to moving towards sustainable practices, guided by the University’s and the Museum’s environmental sustainability goals, out of respect for the earth and all its inhabitants. Advocacy We recognize and work to dismantle the systematic racism inherent in museums, universities, and the field of education by developing educational opportunities rooted in principles of anti-bias, inclusivity, equity, and social justice. We provide employment opportunities, professional development, and mentorship for the next generation of museum professionals. We hold ourselves accountable to this work by setting measurable goals and objectives for Haffenreffer Museum’s educational initiatives, as supported by the University’s Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan. University Teaching & Learning Resources for University Faculty and Students. Visit Page Open details for University Teaching &amp; Learning PreK-12 Programs Classroom Visits, Online Resources, and More. Visit Page Open details for PreK-12 Programs Public Programs The Haffenreffer Museum welcomes you to attend dynamic, free public programs, including workshops, open houses, poetry readings, talks, and more. Visit Page Open details for Public Programs Internships Internship Opportunities & Resources at the Haffenreffer Museum. Visit Page Open details for Internships Student Group Join Like-minded Students in Exploring Museums. Visit Page Open details for Student Group Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Education Open details for Education Bookmark this Page