Skip to Main Content Brown University Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Search Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology About The Museum's Mission, History, and People. Sub Navigation In This Section History People About The Museum's Mission, History, and People. A resource across the university, we inspire creative and critical thinking about culture by fostering an interdisciplinary understanding of the material world. We provide opportunities for faculty and students to work with collections and the public, teaching through objects and programs in classrooms, in the gallery in Manning Hall, and at the Collections Research Center. We acknowledge that the Haffenreffer Museum currently resides on the traditional homelands of the Narragansett and Wampanoag peoples, who have stewarded this land through the generations. We recognize and respect their enduring relationships to this place, in the past, present, and future. The Haffenreffer Museum upholds the Statement on Equal Opportunity, Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action composed by The Corporation of Brown University. As a department within Brown, the Museum commits to providing equal opportunity and prohibits discrimination, harassment, and retaliation based upon a person’s race, color, religion, sex, age, national or ethnic origin, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or any other characteristic protected under applicable law, in the administration of its policies, programs, and activities. History The Founding and History of the Haffenreffer Museum. Visit Page Open details for History Publications Contexts Publications, Books, and Reports. Visit Page Open details for Publications Contact Us Reach the Haffenreffer Museum by Email, Phone, or Mail. Visit Page Open details for Contact Us People The Museum's Staff, Partners, and Friends. Visit Page Open details for People Policies Collection Management Policy, Access Forms, and Resources. Visit Page Open details for Policies Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History People Connect Contact Us Plan Your Visit Support the Museum Student Group Jobs Internships Exhibits Current Exhibits Past Exhibits Satellite Cases Collection Online Catalogue Archive Policies Education University Teaching & Learning PreK-12 Programs Public Programs Research Collections Research Center Circumpolar Laboratory Grant Projects Collaborative Projects Publications Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Open details for About Bookmark this Page