Close MAIN MENU Home About Us Meet the Staff Friends of the Center Advisory Board Faculty Support Us Frequently Asked Questions Publications External Resources Meet our Mentees MMAS Contact Academics Graduate Program Information about Multicultural Graduate Certificate Application form for Graduate Certificate in Multicultural Marketing Communication Undergraduate Programs Information about Multicultural Undergraduate Certificate Application form for Undergraduate Certificate in Multicultural Marketing Communication Information about Undergraduate Minor in Hispanic Marketing Application form for Minor in Hispanic Marketing Communication Professional Certificate Application for the Professional Certificate in Multicultural Marketing Communication Research News Students The Legacy Marketing Campaign Competition Student Opportunities Student Activities Videos How To Apply Video Cómo Aplicar Video 2022 Virtual Gala Donate Contact HELPFUL LINKS Skip to content FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY Search Search in CCI: CCI Schools & Centers DONATE NOW Welcome to the College of Communication & Information Schools and Colleges College of Communication & Information School of Communication School of Information School of Communication Science & Disorders Centers of Distinction Centers and Labs Garnet & Gold Scholar Society Center for Hispanic Marketing Communication Center for Hispanic Marketing Communication Home About Us Meet the Staff Friends of the Center Advisory Board Faculty Support Us Frequently Asked Questions Publications External Resources Meet our Mentees MMAS Contact Academics Graduate Program Information about Multicultural Graduate Certificate Application form for Graduate Certificate in Multicultural Marketing Communication Undergraduate Programs Information about Multicultural Undergraduate Certificate Application form for Undergraduate Certificate in Multicultural Marketing Communication Information about Undergraduate Minor in Hispanic Marketing Application form for Minor in Hispanic Marketing Communication Professional Certificate Application for the Professional Certificate in Multicultural Marketing Communication Research News Students The Legacy Marketing Campaign Competition Student Opportunities Student Activities Videos How To Apply Video Cómo Aplicar Video 2022 Virtual Gala Donate Contact Menu Certificate Mentorship Program Minor Degree LAC Scholarship Internship Certificate in Multicultural Marketing Communication Graduate students and non-degree seeking professionals can pursue a certificate to acquire unique skills and conduct research geared to enhance marketing strategies and considerations for the multicultural market. Learn More x Learn from successful professionals in the Hispanic and multicultural marketing industry. Apply Now! x Undergraduate students can earn a minor in Multicultural Marketing Communication. The courses offer an interdisciplinary approach to study the multicultural market. Learn More x The Latin American Caribbean Scholarship is awarded to international students from designated Latin American and Caribbean countries at the start of each semester. Learn more about this opportunity and apply with the link below! Click Here x Check out this internship opportunity with the Center! Apply Now x The Center, an engaging space to develop your future The Center for Hispanic Marketing Communication at Florida State University was founded by Dr. Felipe Korzenny in 2004. The Center’s affiliation, academic courses, and programs are part of the Florida State University School of Communication. The Center was the first of its kind in the United States devoted to educating students and professionals in the field of U.S. Hispanic marketing and advertising. Faculty and students working with the Center are conducting ground-breaking research and serving as an innovative resource for the Hispanic marketing industry. Sindy Chapa Director, The Center for Hispanic Marketing Communication Learn how your gift may help HMC students succeed MAKE A GIFT Contact Us (850) 644-9698 Visit Us! 4100 University Center, Building C Tallahassee, FL 32306-2651 Visit 3100 University Center, Building C Tallahassee, FL 32306-2664 ABOUT THE COLLEGE The College is comprised of the School of Communication, the School of Communication Science & Disorders and the School of Information. Learn more >> FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY For the past several years, our programs have been ranked consistently in the top 25 in the nation by U.S. News and World Report. Learn more >> Report Errors | Privacy Policy © 2021 Florida State University. College of Communication & Information at Florida State University