Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Harvard Museums of Science & Culture | HARVARD.EDU Join Subscribe Shop Rent Press Search Visit Exhibitions Programs Education Support About HOME / EXHIBITIONS / In Search of Thoreau’s Flowers: An Exploration of Change and Loss Artwork by Leah Sobsey for “In Search of Thoreau’s Flowers: An Exploration of Change and Loss” exhibition, Harvard Museum of Natural History, Digitized cyanotype Artwork by Leah Sobsey for “In Search of Thoreau’s Flowers: An Exploration of Change and Loss” exhibition, Harvard Museum of Natural History, Cyanotype on glass with 23K goldIn Search of Thoreau’s Flowers: An Exploration of Change and Loss is an immersive multidisciplinary experience that marries art and science through a modern artistic interpretation of Henry David Thoreau’s preserved plants. Thoreau was prolific in his practice of collecting botanical samples and plants are important indicators of how our world is responding to climate change. Long preserved in the Harvard University Herbaria, 648 specimens serve as the foundation of this new exhibition. The digitization of the specimens, and others in the Herbaria collection, are now allowing broader access to scholars and citizen scientists, in turn welcoming new domains of scholarship. The exhibition invites visitors to experience emotionally resonant connections to the profound loss of natural diversity caused by human-induced climate change. The exhibition urges us to ask, “What do Thoreau’s findings tell us about what plants are winning, and what plants are losing, in the face of climate change today?” Exhibition is open through November 2023 Artwork by Robin Vuchnich for “In Search of Thoreau’s Flowers: An Exploration of Change and Loss” exhibition, Harvard Museum of Natural History, Video still Robin Vuchnich, a new media artist, user experience designer, and an Assistant Professor of the Practice at North Carolina State University, leveraged the digitized specimens to craft an immersive experience in the gallery theater. Animations of the herbarium images and soundscapes recorded at Walden Pond offer a compelling visual experience that features scientific data about species in decline. Leah Sobsey, Artist, Curator, Associate Professor of Photography, and Director of the Gatewood Gallery at the University of North Carolina, Greensboro, created a luminous series of large-scale plant portraits using cyanotype on glass backed with 23k gold, a nineteenth-century photographic process that relies on UV light to create a distinctive Prussian blue tone. Additionally, Sobsey utilized all 648 digitized Thoreau samples, creating a stunning wallpaper consisting of original cyanotypes and digital imagery that tells a story of the survival and decline of plant specimens. Scholars Dr. Charles Davis, Curator of Vascular Plants, Harvard University Herbaria; Dr. Marsha Gordon, Professor, North Carolina State University; and Dr. Emily Meineke, Assistant Professor, University of California, Davis, inform the exhibition’s scientific dimensions and intellectual framework. Together, scholars Davis, Gordon, and Meineke worked in collaboration with artists Sobsey and Vuchnich to shape the vision for and experience of this multi-sensory exhibition. Shop sustainable masks, pillow covers, and hand towels featuring cyanotype prints of Thoreau’s Specimens at LEA Studios. Learn more about the exhibition by listening to our recent HMSC Connects! podcast featuring a conversation between host Jennifer Berglund, biologist Emily Meineke, and artists Robin Vuchnich and Leah Sobsey. Read the press release for In Search of Thoreau's Flowers: An Exploration of Change and Loss. Hours Harvard Museum of Natural History is open daily from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm. Closed on: January 1 Thanksgiving Day December 24 December 25 Location The museum is located at 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts, just past Harvard Yard. 0c780acd9669ab3fdf7718a51d53794c Email Updates Sign up for our newsletter. Your privacy: we do not share our list. Harvard Museum of Natural History 26 Oxford Street |Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 495-3045 |hmnh@hmsc.harvard.edu Plan Your Visit 70cd81739d5e358583752680d7d39323 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement