Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Harvard Museums of Science & Culture | HARVARD.EDU Join Subscribe Shop Rent Press Search Visit Exhibitions Programs Education Support About HOME / Exhibitions Glass Flowers See one of Harvard's most famous treasures, the Glass Flowers In Search of Thoreau’s Flowers: An Exploration of Change and Loss This exhibition marries art and science through a modern artistic interpretation of Henry David Thoreau’s plants. Sea Creatures in Glass Featuring glass jellyfish and anemones, octopus, tentacled squid, and more The Rockefeller Beetles This exhibit features hundreds of specimens from Rockefeller’s collection Romer Hall of Vertebrate Paleontology This exhibition showcases major milestones in the evolution of vertebrates Earth & Planetary Sciences This gallery displays thousands of rare minerals and sparkling gemstones, including a 1,600-pound amethyst geode Africa Visitors can see impressive mounted specimens of African wildlife collected over a century ago, including a hippopotamus, lion, ostrich, hyena, gorilla, and a variety of rare animals from the island of Madagascar. An interactive video display highlights endangered species. Arthropods: Creatures That Rule Featuring hands-on activities, dramatic specimen displays, colorful video and graphics, and even live specimens, this exhibition draws on the latest scientific research to explore arthropods' extraordinary evolutionary success and their impact on our lives. Asia This gallery features mounted wildlife specimens from Asia. It includes a rare Indian rhinoceros, Siberian and Bengal tigers, and a cheetah. Birds of the World On the balcony encircling the museum's Great Mammal Hall, the Birds of the World gallery captures the extraordinary diversity of birds with many hundreds of stunning specimens that represent over 200 different bird families. Cenozoic Mammals This gallery features fossils from the Cenozoic Era, also known as the Age of Mammals. It was marked by the extinction of dinosaurs 65 million years ago. Central and South America This gallery features mounted wildlife specimens from Central and South America. The exhibit includes a jaguar, tapir, sloth, giant armadillo, a large wall of hummingbirds, and a seven-foot Amazon pirarucu, one of the largest ever caught. Climate Change Recently redesigned and updated, this exhibition draws on the latest scientific information about our warming climate, the global and local consequences, how to reduce fossil-fuel emissions that cause it, and how to prepare for its effects. Earth & Planetary Sciences This expansive gallery displays thousands of rare rock and mineral specimens, sparkling gemstones, a 1,600-pound amethyst geode, meteorites, and much more about the processes and events that have shaped Earth's evolution. Evolution Evolution offers a behind-the-scenes look at ongoing evolution research at Harvard, from exciting new discoveries about human origins, to surprising insights from new genetic and developmental studies on Darwin's finches. From the Hands of the Makers From the Hands of the Makers explores what it takes to both make and conserve a model and investigates the lingering mysteries surrounding the making of the glass flowers—closely held secrets that only modern technology can reveal. Glass Flowers One of Harvard University’s most famous treasures is the internationally acclaimed Ware Collection of Blaschka Glass Models of Plants, better known as the “Glass Flowers." This unique collection was made by Leopold (1822-1895) and Rudolf Blaschka (1857-1939), a father and son team of Czech glass artists. Over fifty years, from 1886 through 1936, the Blaschkas produced 4,300 glass models that represent 780 plant species. Great Mammal Hall The Great Mammal Hall, an expansive two-story space, is the most dramatic gallery in the museum. It displays a large selection of mammals from a full-size giraffe and whale skeletons suspended from the ceiling to the smallest of creatures. The second-story balcony houses the Birds of the World exhibit. In Search of Thoreau’s Flowers: An Exploration of Change and Loss In Search of Thoreau’s Flowers: An Exploration of Change and Loss is an immersive multidisciplinary experience that marries art and science through a modern artistic interpretation of Henry David Thoreau’s preserved plants. Lily Simonson: Painting the Deep This exhibit presents six original mural-sized paintings that literally glow with luminescent pigments and together create an immersive visual experience, giving form to a hidden alien universe. Marine Life This exhibit immerses visitors in the remarkable diversity and dynamic interplay among animals in marine communities just off New England shores. New England Forests New England Forests in the Zofnass Family Gallery is a multi-media exhibition that explores the natural history and ecology of this region’s forests. Orb-Weavers This smaller-scale exhibit in the Arthropods gallery examines the evolution of the orb spider web and explores how capture strategies used by its arachnid builders have shaped orb web design. The Rockefeller Beetles This smaller-scale exhibit in the Arthropods gallery features hundreds of specimens from banker and philanthropist David Rockefeller’s collection and recounts the story of a man whose childhood pursuit grew into a lifelong passion. Romer Hall of Vertebrate Paleontology This exhibition showcases the evolutionary history of vertebrates, including spectacularly preserved fishes, dinosaurs, and early mammals. Sea Creatures in Glass Many years before they were commissioned by Harvard University to make the renowned Glass Flowers, father and son artists Leopold and Rudolf Blaschka meticulously shaped glass into lifelike models of marine and terrestrial animals for universities and museums throughout the world in the nineteenth century. Exhibit Videos Explore short videos featured in our galleries. Online Exhibitions Face to Face This exhibit showcases Jana Matusz's striking portraits of animal specimens, in which the use of color and texture gives a voice and life to them. Islands: Evolving in Isolation This online exhibit is an exploration of evolution on islands that highlights the latest research and discoveries made by Harvard scientists. Vida salvaje/Wild Life Listen to ten audio reflections recorded, edited, and produced by the Hear Me Out/Escúchame teens. Learn more about why some of the animals on display in the Harvard Museum of Natural History are important to us. Escucha diez reflexiones grabadas, editadas y producidas por jóvenes del proyecto Hear Me Out/Escúchame. Descubre por qué algunos de los animales en el Museo de Historia Natural de Harvard son importantes para nosotros. What's in a Name? This exhibit includes four interactive kiosks embedded into existing exhibits. Explore how different organisms are named. Learn more on the What's in a Name website and download the free e-book. Floor Plan View the floor plan 0c780acd9669ab3fdf7718a51d53794c Email Updates Sign up for our newsletter. Your privacy: we do not share our list. Harvard Museum of Natural History 26 Oxford Street |Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 495-3045 |hmnh@hmsc.harvard.edu Plan Your Visit 70cd81739d5e358583752680d7d39323 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement