Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Graduation 2021 2021 Virtual Graduation Ceremonies Thursday, May 27 Harvard University's and HMS's graduation celebrations and ceremonies were held virtually to ensure the health and safety of all Harvard communities. A Beautiful Moment 2021 HMS/HSDM grads pause to acknowledge resilience, hope, love Dean for Students Fidencio Saldaña and Class Day co-moderators (from top) Troy Amen, Vartan Pahalyants, and Nick DeMeo. As you practice medicine and provide dental care or seek the answers to our most profound questions through research, seek opportunities to serve those who don’t have your background and have a different perspective on life. —Valerie Montgomery Rice, Class Day keynote speaker The Shining Light Master’s, MD-PhD grads encouraged to ‘Make the World Better’ Dan Barouch giving master's ceremony keynote speech First, tackle hard problems. ... Second, find ways to make the world a better place. —Dan Barouch, master's ceremony keynote speaker Class Day ceremony Keynote and Deans' Speeches The Person in Front of You Always Be a Student Grace and Determination Student Class Day Speeches Compassion Takes Intentional Practice All Along the Way Into the Unknown Master's degree ceremony Follow along with the Master's degree virtual ceremony program For behold, the winter is past; the rain is over and gone. The flowers appear upon the earth, the time of the singing has come. —From “The Winter Is Past,” by Jeremy Faust × "The Winter is Past," Harvard Medical Musical Interlude Honoring the Harvard Class of 2021 The Harvard-MIT Program in Health Sciences and Technology View the 2021 HST graduation video here. Whatever we do next, whether it’s clinical work, science, or industry, “the mindset to seek out and build collaborations is a core HST tenet we will carry with us. —Aditya Kalluri, HST class speaker Profiles of Graduating Students Ana Cristina Sedas Making It Personal Ana Cristina Sedas, MMSc-GHD ’21, is on a personal mission to change the approach from seeing migrant health care as a burden that needs a remedy to responding to it as a matter of a universal right to health and equal access to care. Read Making It Personal here. Ryoko Yamaguchi Creating a Niche MD graduate Ryoko Hamaguchi harnesses her artistic talents, scientific curiosity, and bilingualism to connect art, medicine, and cultures. Read Creating a Niche here. Nelson LaMarche Excitement for Science Nelson LaMarche, who graduated from the HMS Division of Medical Sciences PhD program in immunology in November 2020, thought he wanted to be a physician until he discovered the thrill of research. Read Excitement for Science here. Constance Wu Pandemic Project Constance Wu, a graduating MD candidate in the Harvard-MIT Health Sciences and Technology program, found time to illustrate a children's book on COVID-19, titled Ramona and Iris ... and the Coronavirus, written by her classmate Katherine Redfield. Read the interview. Profiles of Dental School Graduates Read profiles of stellar Harvard School of Dental Medicine graduates. MD 2021 Improving Medicine To Serve All People Asmaa Rimawi researches the effects of discrimination on health and health care delivery. Read about Asmaa Rimawi MD/MBA 2021 A Natural Inclination Troy Amen wants to address socioeconomic inequalities from an administrative perspective. Read about Troy Amen PhD 2018/MD 2021 The Questioning Approach Jamaji Nwanaji-Enwerem investigates how airborne particles affect biological aging. Read about Jamaji Nwanaji-Enwerem MD/MBA 2021 Measuring Success For Mark Zaki, connecting on a human level is important. Read about Mark Zaki PhD 2021 Being Creative and Helping Others Krissy Lyon seeks to understand the neuroscience behind behavior. Read about Krissy Lyon Class Day speaker: Morehouse School of Medicine president, dean Valerie Montgomery Rice Valerie Montgomery Rice, MD ’87, is the first female to lead Morehouse School of Medicine. Montgomery Rice has experience in patient care, medical research, organizational management, and public health policy. She is also dedicated to increasing diversity in medicine and fostering equity in health care access and health outcomes. Read more about Montgomery Rice here. “We are deeply honored to have Dr. Montgomery Rice share her wisdom with this year’s graduating students on the day they officially become physicians and dentists.” —Edward Hundert, HMS dean for medical education A Most Memorable Day On Match Day, 2021, MD students learned where they'll serve residencies HMS students wear specially made T-shirts and hold signs showing where they matched. Zooming into Residency Pandemic prompts remote interviews with hospitals for grads Annie Cathcart (left) and Titi Afolabi. Images: Paul Cathcart and Brandon Moye "Thank you for your patience and understanding, and for your continued commitment to our community." —HMS Dean George Q. Daley Visit the HMS coronavirus information for the HMS community web page for details about 2021 Summer semester plans. Education & Admissions Graduation Ceremony Information Graduation 2021 Graduation 2020 Graduation 2019 Class Day 2018 Class Day 2017 Class Day 2016 Class Day 2015 Class Day 2014 Class Day 2013 Class Day 2012 Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College