Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine News & Research Remembrance of Viral Encounters Past Trio of studies reveal critical clues about COVID-19 immunity By HALEY BRIDGER | Brigham and Women's May 20, 2022 Research 5 min read Image: Design Cells/ iStock / Getty Images Plus This article is part of Harvard Medical School’s continuing coverage of COVID-19. How does the immune system remember and recognize viral invaders it has encountered in the past? A trio of newly published studies of people infected with SARS-CoV-2, vaccinated against the virus, or both, are providing tantalizing new clues about the factors that influence the speed and magnitude of the immune system’s response to subsequent infection with variants of SARS-CoV-2. These insights could help researchers work backward to further improve vaccines, with the ultimate goal of creating either a multivariant vaccine that could shield people from multiple strains or even a pan-coronavirus vaccine that could provide protection against variants that have yet to emerge. Get more HMS news here The three studies, published in Science Immunology and led by investigators at Harvard Medical School, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Massachusetts General Hospital, and the Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, provide intriguing answers about how long immunity lasts against COVID-19 and the nature of immune recall after infection, vaccination, or both. “If we want to ask more of our immune system, we need to know what it is capable of,” said Duane Wesemann, associate professor of medicine at HMS and a researcher in the Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology at Brigham and Women’s. Wesemann is one of the senior authors on two of the papers and a co-author on the third. “Our findings suggest that there are differences between people—some people have antibody responses that are relatively more sustained with greater breadth than others, and that may contribute to greater protection against future infection,” he added. “If we can understand and tap into what gives some people an immunological edge, we may be able to coax the immune system through improved vaccine strategies to give a little more.” In one study, Wesemann and colleagues looked at immunity after infection with the original strain of SARS-CoV-2, first identified in Wuhan, China. The team assessed 73 antibodies made in response to infection with the ancestral strain to determine which, if any, were effective against five variants — alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and omicron. They found that certain antibodies generated from infection with the original strain could neutralize variants of concern—results that confirm why vaccines formulated against the original strain can still provide protection against variants. Using sophisticated imaging techniques, the researchers were able to track how the shapeshifting structure of the mutating virus engages with the immune system. They pinpointed mutation-prone sites of the viral spike protein that the pathogen uses to invade human cells. This approach allowed researchers to visualize how these mutable viral parts interact with sites on antibodies that neutralize SARS-CoV-2 and prevent it from entering cells. In a second paper, investigators looked at immune recall, the process of summoning memory cells into action to fight repeat invasions with the same pathogen. The team analyzed the immune system’s response after infection, vaccination, and boosting by studying blood samples from individuals with different medical trajectories—those who had recovered from SARS-CoV-2 infection but were not vaccinated, those who recovered from infection and were then vaccinated against COVID-19, or those who were never infected but had been vaccinated and boosted. The team found evidence that people who had been infected and vaccinated as well as people who had been vaccinated and boosted could mount a strong and broad response across variants, including omicron. In addition, the researchers found evidence suggesting that memory of prior infection with common cold coronaviruses might be responsible for the robust, sustained immune response in a small subset of unvaccinated individuals who recover from COVID-19. These individuals, known as sustainers, experience swift resolution of COVID-19 symptoms and have a prolonged, sustained antibody response. “We’re very excited about this idea that some people sustain their antibodies and have memory B cells that can react across variants—it raises some interesting possibilities as we think about a pan-coronavirus vaccine,” said Wesemann. In a third study led by Andrew Luster and James Moon, both of the Center for Immunology and Inflammatory Diseases at Mass General, investigators sought to better understand the role of CD4+ T cells in COVID-19 immunity by directly identifying those cells that recognize SARS-CoV-2. Luster is the Persis, Cyrus and Marlow B. Harrison Professor of Medicine at HMS and Mass General, and Moon is an assistant professor of medicine at HMS and Mass General. Analyzing blood samples from patients who had recovered from infection during the first wave of the pandemic in Boston, they found that certain CD4+ T cell subsets—circulating T follicular helper (Tfh) cells and T helper-1 (Th1) cells—were more common in individuals who had milder disease and did not require hospitalization. This cellular response appeared to persist for several months, potentially giving the immune system an advantage for subsequent exposure to SARS-CoV-2, including variants. In addition, T follicular helper cells specific for SARS-CoV-2 were found to be more common in the same group of antibody sustainers observed in the Wesemann study, suggesting a link between these T cells and more prolonged antibody responses. "Our study demonstrates that the quality of the CD4+ T cell response to SARS-CoV-2 was better in patients with less severe infections, and that this was reflected by the presence of sustained antibodies. This supports the general immunological theory that optimal antibody responses require robust CD4+ T cell help and that vaccines should be designed to also maximize responses by this component of the adaptive immune system," said Luster. The Brigham and Mass General groups have received one of four federally-funded program project grants from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases to conduct research to develop vaccines that can protect against multiple types of coronaviruses and viral variants. Wesemann, Luster, Moon, and their collaborators are continuing to analyze samples from people who have been infected with SARS-CoV-2 or vaccinated against COVID-19 to identify immunological features that may confer the broadest possible immunity against coronaviruses and variants. Funding: Windsor, et al: This study was supported by grants from the Massachusetts Consortium on Pathogen Readiness, the National Institutes of Health (AI165072, AI139538) and the China Evergrande Group. Support for the Harvard Cryo-EM Center for Structural Biology came from the Nancy Lurie Marks Family Foundation. Chen, et al: This study was supported by grants from the National Institutes of Health (T32 AI007306, AI139538, AI169619, AI170715, and AI165072), the Massachusetts Consortium on Pathogen Readiness, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Food Allergy Science Initiative, and the China Evergrande Group. Nelson, et al: This work was supported by grants from the National Institutes of Health (R01AI040618, R01AI139538, P01 AI165072, T32 AI007512, T32 AI007306), the Massachusetts Consortium on Pathogen Readiness, the MGH Executive Committee on Research, the China Evergrande Group, and the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, NIH, Contract No. HHSN261200800001E, and its Intramural Research Program. Disclosures: Co-author Adam Zuiani (Chen, et al.) is currently an employee at BioNTech US, Inc. Adapted from a Brigham and Women’s news release Related News Vaccines, Variants, Vulnerabilities April 29, 2022 From boosters to BA.5, MassCPR experts unpack pressing pandemic questions Infants and COVID Antibodies February 14, 2022 Vaccination during pregnancy results in more persistent antibody levels in infants What Lies Ahead February 11, 2022 HMS experts weigh in on future of pandemic, vaccine for young children Trending News Together, At Last May 26, 2022 2022 HMS, HSDM grads celebrate success while striving for change in a challenging time Doctors, Sleep, and Patient Safety May 12, 2022 National policy leads to reduction in harmful, fatal medical errors Up to the Challenge May 25, 2022 HMS master's grads urged to build healthier, more equitable world News Topic Menu News Topics Research Awards and Achievements Care Delivery HMS Community Education Stay Up to Date First Name Last Name Email Address Which publications would you like to receive? harvard_medicine_magazine Harvard Medicine magazine (three times a year) Harvard Medicine News (weekly) On the Brain (quarterly) RSS Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College