Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine HMS Flexwork Initiative The future of where and how we work is changing on a global scale. HMS recognizes that flexible work (flexwork) is an important strategic tool to: Achieve institutional goals. Attract and retain talent amid an increasingly competitive landscape. Empower employees and increase work/life balance. Maintain business continuity in case of disruption. Support a diverse and inclusive work environment. In addition, HMS employees have indicated a clear desire to extend flexwork options long term: In a fall 2020 survey, 87 percent of 846 respondents from administration, education, and dry research areas said they would like to work remotely two or more days per week post-pandemic if given the choice. In a fall 2021 survey, 96 percent of 355 individuals surveyed within administrative departments indicated they anticipated being on campus an average of zero to two days a week, working the remaining days remotely if able and given the choice. For all the above reasons, HMS Dean George Q. Daley and Executive Dean for Administration Lisa Muto have designated flexwork as a top management priority for the School. HMS is committed to finding additional opportunities to continue to gain community feedback on the status of hybrid and remote work. Why Flexwork? Committing to flexwork long term will enable HMS to: Create and support an environment and culture that better reflects our mission, community values, and diversity statement. Position itself as a workplace of choice for both job seekers and current employees. Reduce our carbon footprint and create a more sustainable campus. Plan for changes today that reflect the vision of where and how we work tomorrow. Buttress School efforts with supportive, forward-looking University policies. Optimize space planning and technology to collocate hybrid teams, support new work models, and enable space efficiencies. Why Now? The HMS Flexwork Initiative was formally initiated in fall 2020. To date, we have: Completed the long-term visioning phase of the Flexwork Initiative (Sept. 2020 to July 2021). Launched the flexwork planning and implementation phase (July 2021 to future state), which includes: Transitioning long-term visioning into planning and implementation, with a distinct focus on people and physical supports. Continuing to gather community and stakeholder feedback while identifying opportunities to implement flexwork supports in pursuit of our long-term vision. Identified opportunities for efficiency in on-campus administrative real estate, providing an ideal opportunity to: Explore flexspace models for administrative units that expect to be on a hybrid schedule. Launch a feasibility study for potential flexspace in Gordon Hall (spring 2022). How Does HMS Define Flexwork? There are many types of dynamic and flexible work arrangements as defined by Harvard Human Resources. These arrangements can include hybrid and remote work, flexible hours, compressed work week, reduced hours, and job sharing. HMS has defined the following workplace models: Particular areas of focus for the HMS Flexwork Initiative are the hybrid and primarily remote work models. In fall 2021, as part of the Flexwork Initiative, HMS department/unit leaders began applying these flexwork models to their teams equitably, without bias, and based on their unique business needs, the operational needs of the School, and the nature and duties of an individual’s role and job requirements as part of their team. HMS leadership fully supports the flexwork model decisions made by local department/unit leaders and encourages testing, learning, and adapting as part of this process. It is also important to note that many units delayed the implementation of their flexwork plans until spring 2022. School leadership understands that units are likely to adapt their plans as they implement them and determine what is working and where improvements should be made. Resources for Staff Flexwork at Harvard This website includes resources, information, guidelines, policy statement, and principles of flexwork arrangements at Harvard. Tools and Resources This collection has been compiled to help staff and managers navigate the flexwork process and includes information on ergonomics and disability resources, tips for recognizing and addressing burnout, and work/life and well-being resources and toolkits from the Harvard Center for Workplace Development. Flexible Work Arrangement Documentation Form This form is not required by HMS during this Flexwork Initiative phase, but employees who would like to request other forms of flexwork based on their location or schedule should complete this form and submit it to their supervisor for review. How IT Supports Remote Work This website provides IT tips and resources that support remote work. LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Find a wide variety of courses, both foundational and in-depth, on teleworking and working remotely. University Disability Resources Visit this site to learn more about the role health and disability issues may play in flexwork. Ergonomics Information, Support, and Self-Assessment Employees who telework or work remotely should assess the ergonomic suitability of their work setting. The Remote Work Ergonomics Fact Sheet is also a helpful tool. Working Remotely: The Basics Useful tips to consider. Burnout Toolkit Workplace practices for recognizing and addressing burnout. Resources for Managers and Leaders Return to Campus Resources This list has been compiled by Harvard Human Resources to assist leaders in planning for their school/unit’s return to campus. Center for Workplace Development CWD provides training and resources to develop individual and team competencies. CWD provides multiple Toolkits, which include: Leading and Managing in a Hybrid Work Environment Toolkit Managing Remotely Toolkit Team Effectiveness Toolkit Performance Management for Managers Tip Sheet Diversity, Inclusion, Belonging and Equity Toolkit Change Leadership Toolkit Managing Burnout Toolkit Universal Manager Training This required management training covers workplace flexibility. Return to Campus Information We have transformed the HMS coronavirus website into a new resource focused on Returning to Campus: Information for the HMS Community. There, you can access information on current guidelines on masks and face coverings, physical distancing, events and gatherings, testing, vaccines, and safety protocols, as well as information on parking, public transportation, dining, and other campus services. A list of frequently asked questions with information specific to returning to campus is also available. FAQs Has HMS established specific flexwork models? Building on the flexwork frameworks and definitions established by the University, HMS has established specific workplace models defined as follows: Department and unit leaders will apply these flexwork models to their teams equitably, without bias, and based on their unique business needs, the operational needs of the school, and the nature and duties of an individual’s role and job requirements as part of their team. Who will determine my flexwork model? Department and unit leaders will apply HMS-specific flexwork models to their teams equitably, without bias, and based on their unique business needs, the operational needs of the School, and the nature and duties of an individual’s role and job requirements as part of their team. If you have any questions or concerns, please reach out to your supervisor directly. Once finalized and/or adapted by department/unit leaders, flexwork plans will be collected and tracked by HMS Human Resources and by Campus Planning and Facilities for campus-planning purposes. Please note that the approval process is managed at the local leadership department/unit level. It is also important to note that many units delayed the implementation of their flexwork plans until spring 2022. School leadership understands that units are likely to adapt their plans as they implement them and determine what is working and where improvements should be made. Is there a formal approval process for department/unit flexwork and reoccupancy plans? The approval process is managed at the local leadership department/unit level. Who is eligible for flexwork? Consistent with Harvard’s flexible work arrangement policy, non-teaching exempt and overtime-eligible staff are eligible for flexwork at HMS. Bargaining unit staff should consult their collective bargaining agreement to review any flexibility provisions. Can I request other forms of flexwork? Employees who would like to request other forms of flexwork based on their location or schedule should complete this Flexible Work Arrangement Documentation Form and submit it to their supervisor for review. Are there specific requirements I must adhere to while working remotely? The following are important basic principles that should be followed by individuals who will be working partially or fully remote: You have reviewed and understand Harvard’s Information Security Policy and IT Security Tools for protecting Harvard information at various data levels. You have reviewed and understand the Remote Work Ergonomics Fact Sheet and Remote Workstation Ergonomic Tips developed by the Harvard Environmental Health & Safety team. If you are an overtime-eligible employee, you understand that all hours worked must be reported and that overtime requires supervisor preapproval even when a flexwork arrangement exists. You understand that major activities, such as full-time dependent care or intensive work on a personal project, are not appropriate while teleworking. Occasional flexwork in unusual circumstances must be discussed with your supervisor. You understand that you must discuss with HR any considerations about working outside of the state of Massachusetts. Will employees who continue to work remotely receive technology (laptop, monitor, docking station, etc.) and any stipends to accommodate their home workspaces? Harvard University continues to evaluate potential policy changes related to home workplace costs. For guidance on frequently asked questions, refer to this memo from the HMS Office of Finance, or contact your Office of Finance analyst for any additional or related financial considerations. Employees working in a remote or hybrid manner should work with their supervisor and their department administrator to determine the appropriate technology necessary to do their jobs. For questions on purchasing computer equipment, please contact your IT Support Team. Please note HMS expects one computer per eligible employee. Therefore, we strongly recommend the adoption of laptops due to their portable nature, which, in combination with a docking station, keyboard, and mouse, should meet many administrative staff needs. Required security software must be installed on any system connected to the HMS network or used to conduct HMS business. Installation of the required security software can be done via self-service or with assistance from your IT support team. Are there plans to enhance the technology on campus to accommodate meetings with a mix of in-person and remote participants? To support both in-person and remote collaboration, there are currently 115 Zoom-capable spaces across the HMS campus. HMS IT will provide reference guides for these collaboration spaces to guide users on connecting to a Zoom meeting. The HMS IT website will contain more in-depth knowledge articles on connecting to a Zoom meeting. HMS IT is piloting solutions to expand the number of Zoom-capable collaboration spaces on the HMS campus. HMS IT will make these spaces available for the community to test. Who can I contact if I have more questions about the HMS Flexwork Initiative that haven't been answered here? For general inquiries, please email flexwork@hms.harvard.edu. Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College