Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Class Day 2016 ‘We Are Always Transitioning’ Keynote highlights road to medical progress Dean Flier. Image: Steve Gilbert Medicine is in a constant state of change, and the best path forward is not always clear, whether you are a medical or dental student or the dean of Harvard Medical School. Those with talent, passion and perseverance, however, can transform uncertainty into new careers and unconventional solutions that advance patient care and biomedical research, said Jeffrey S. Flier, dean of the faculty of medicine at Harvard University, in his keynote address for Class Day 2016. Read more about Dean Flier's speech. Class Day speakers Jonathan Blake Watson and John Austin Weems. Image: Steve Gilbert Other Class Day speakers shared examples of the many changes they have seen—or foreseen— in their studies and careers. Read excerpts from Class Day remarks. Celebration and Thanks Harvard’s newest doctors and dentists reflect on lessons learned Celebrating in Cambridge. Image: Steve Lipofsky Under sunny skies in Cambridge and amid gentle breezes beneath a large tent on the Quad in Boston, members of the Harvard Medical School and Harvard School of Dental Medicine Class of 2016 paused and took a breath. Today was their day to celebrate their achievements and express gratitude to those who helped them on their way to the bright futures that await them. Continue reading. Graduation is a day of ceremony and celebration at Harvard University and Harvard Medical School. Students are granted the M.D. and any other advanced degrees they have earned; they are hooded and they receive their diplomas. CLASS DAY ON THE QUAD Transitioning from students to doctors, graduates look to future. View the Class Day slideshow COMMENCEMENT 2016 Photo Gallery Harvard University confers degrees on HMS and HSDM graduates View the Harvard University slideshow CLASS DAY VIDEO 2016 Watch the video of the complete ceremony. Education & Admissions Graduation Ceremony Information Graduation 2021 Graduation 2020 Graduation 2019 Class Day 2018 Class Day 2017 Class Day 2016 Class Day 2015 Class Day 2014 Class Day 2013 Class Day 2012 Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College