Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine News & Research No Singular Hero Dean Daley on the collective purpose of medicine to make the world healthier, more peaceful, more just May 27, 2022 Education 8 min read George Q. Daley. Good afternoon and welcome! Harvard Medical School and Harvard School of Dental Medicine Class of 2022. I am thrilled to be here with you today! Class Day is always a momentous occasion, but the fact that we can finally gather in person after two very long years makes today all the more joyful. Get more HMS news here Because of the pandemic, you’ve had to persevere in your training during a time that has been deeply fraught for the world, and for the medical profession. But the pandemic has awakened you to the central importance of social determinants of health. You’ve given your all in fighting COVID-19—in clinics, community health centers, and laboratories. You’ve countered misinformation, advocated for vaccine equity, equipped yourself with scientific knowledge, and excelled at your studies. You’ve been at times fearful, hopeful, dismayed, exhausted, adamant, triumphant. Despite the emotional turmoil of the past few years, you’ve advocated for each other and for your patients. You’ve advocated that compassionate health care and the fruits of modern science—innovative vaccines and medications—should be accessible to everyone As dean of the faculty of medicine, and on behalf of all 12,000 Harvard Medical School faculty members, I want you to know we are enormously proud of you. The pandemic has taught us painful and inconvenient truths about the U.S. health care system. Despite prodigious advances in biotechnology, drug and vaccine development, adequate health care has remained inaccessible for many in our own rich country. Your careers—your futures—can change that narrative. YOU will be instrumental in determining the future trajectory of human health and well-being, and that is both a responsibility and an opportunity. Image: Steve Lipofsky If you are ambivalent or nervous about what lies ahead, well, I don’t blame you. If you are tired or disillusioned, I understand. But I encourage you to reflect on the last two years of the pandemic, reflect on your interactions with your teachers and your peers. Think about the conversations you’ve had, the ideas you’ve workshopped together, all that you’ve learned. You don’t leave HMS with just a medical education, you leave HMS with a powerful network of friends, colleagues, and mentors. You leave here with a common purpose—to make the world healthier, more truthful, more peaceful, and more just. There is no singular hero in Harvard Medical School’s mission to alleviate suffering and to improve human health and wellness. Ours is a collective effort. And I would wager that given everything you and your classmates have endured, your resilience and determination will make you a formidable force for achieving medical justice—a formidable force for social justice—in the decades to come. Sadly, this past winter we lost one of the world’s greatest crusaders for social justice and health equity when our dear colleague Paul Farmer died suddenly while rounding and teaching at the Butaro Hospital of the University of Global Health Equity in Rwanda. Paul was one of the greatest humanitarians of not just our time but of all time. His life’s work was an inspiration, a constant reminder that the most noble calling of a physician is to serve those in need. If Paul were with us here today, he would look upon all your brilliant faces gathered under this tent and quip, “you are my retirement plan, you will keep my dream alive.” As you commence your careers, you have big questions to contemplate and address: What is my role in making health care more equitable? How can I be an ambassador for social change? I trust, in fact, I know, that you will seek and you will find the answers. Indeed, you are already changing medicine. You have committed to new visions for global health through endeavors like the Maranyundo Initiative in Rwanda. You have advocated for the transformation of medical education around trauma-informed care. You helped launch curricular reform to ensure that students and faculty clinicians become exceptionally well equipped to provide high-quality, holistic health care for sexual and gender minority patients of all ages. Your list of accomplishments is already long. Your careers and the collaborations you forge with others will define what it means to follow Paul Farmer’s vision for health equity and to be a humanitarian in the 21st century. It’s becoming abundantly clear that the world needs you to chart this path. Physicians, by providing compassionate care to the vulnerable and ill, earn a privileged position of trust from their patients, and still enjoy favorable reputations and trust from the public. At a time when misinformation and outright fabrication sullies far too much of our public discourse, medicine and health remains a domain where the vast majority still respect truth and expertise, because lives depend on it. As medical practitioners, scientists, innovators, and leaders, you will be called upon to uphold the importance of honesty and evidence-based decision-making in your work and in society. Celebrate HMS/HSDM Class Day 2022 Read about this year's Class Day graduates and ceremonies and view videos and photo galleries. Check out this year's Graduation Page The senseless, purposeless war in Ukraine reminds us that physicians and other health workers play a critical role in the promotion of peace. Medical practitioners and public health researchers can track early warning signs of violence and unrest, construct models of its outbreak, and lobby for methods of addressing the structural roots of conflict. And in the midst of war, health care workers selflessly care for others at great personal risk, and stand as heroes amidst the chaos and strife. Let us acknowledge and be grateful for the humanitarian efforts of so many in the HMS community, who are currently working in Ukraine and around the world. The existential threats of war and climate change and the senseless acts of gun violence in our communities have created a pandemic of their own—a pandemic of anxiety and stress. According to the American Psychological Association, as many as 70 percent of U.S. primary care visits are driven by mental health issues, and that was true even before the pandemic. Currently, more than 40 percent of Americans are reporting symptoms of anxiety or depression, and waitlists for appointments with therapists can be six months or longer. A nationwide survey by the National Alliance on Mental Illness found that 33 percent of participants could not find a single mental health provider who accepted their insurance. And for Black and brown youth, in particular, it has been especially difficult to find behavioral health support. The spectrum of need runs from our youth to our seniors, too. Long-term care for the growing population of the elderly is fragmented and unsustainable, so we need solutions that can bolster nursing homes’ effectiveness, solutions that can make at-home health care efficient and affordable so that individuals can age more comfortably. These are just a few examples of the many challenges you will face as you forge your careers. These may seem like daunting challenges. But as I look out this afternoon and see all of you, I feel confident that the future is in good hands. Our society desperately needs energetic, passionate minds like yours to couple scientific rigor with compassion, to wield clinical expertise to advance health equity and justice. We need you—the next generation—to be evangelists for truth and peace. On behalf of the faculty of Harvard Medical School, it is a tremendous honor to call you our new colleagues, to welcome you into the age-old and time-honored medical profession. On behalf of your teachers, mentors, and the alumni community that you now join, I express my hopeful and happy congratulations! You are a remarkable class, and it will be awe-inspiring to see what you do next. Congratulations on this momentous milestone in your lives. Related News Immense Pride, Collective Relief May 27, 2022 HSDM dean applauds work, dedication, sacrifice of Class of 2022 Trouble the Water May 27, 2022 Joia Mukherjee on the 'superpower of radical hope and action' Together, At Last May 26, 2022 2022 HMS, HSDM grads celebrate success while striving for change in a challenging time Trending News Remembrance of Viral Encounters Past May 20, 2022 Untangling the mysteries of immune recall Together, At Last May 26, 2022 2022 HMS, HSDM grads celebrate success while striving for change in a challenging time Doctors, Sleep, and Patient Safety May 12, 2022 National policy leads to reduction in harmful, fatal medical errors News Topic Menu News Topics Research Awards and Achievements Care Delivery HMS Community Education Stay Up to Date First Name Last Name Email Address Which publications would you like to receive? harvard_medicine_magazine Harvard Medicine magazine (three times a year) Harvard Medicine News (weekly) On the Brain (quarterly) RSS Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College