Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Graduation 2019 Commencement and Class Day 2019 Roundup Commitment to Healing 2019 HMS, HSDM grads celebrate, dedicate themselves to curiosity, compassion Fresh Eyes Class Day keynote speaker Mona Hanna-Attisha exhorts graduates to see and act on injustices that threaten health Dean's Speeches Chasing Big Dreams Transformations Student Speeches Who We Are The Debts We Owe Choices Masters of HMS 128 students graduate with master’s degrees in a variety of specialties From Students to Scientists More than 100 receive doctoral hoods, join research professions as peers Photo Gallery Class Day on the Quad HMS and HSDM grads reflect and celebrate View the slideshow Related Links Class of 2019 Oath Grads pledge a promise to patients. Read the oath Related Links 2019 Class Day Awards Faculty and staff recognized for passion and care. Read about the awardees Photo Gallery Commencement Photos Degree candidates celebrate at Harvard Yard. View the slideshow × For at our best, we don’t just doctor, we heal. Stephen Berman, ’73, aka Samuel Shem 2009 Class Day keynote speaker × To the extent that we respond to the health needs of the most vulnerable among us, we promote the health of the nation as a whole. Former U.S. Surgeon General David Satcher 1999 Class Day invited speaker Depth of Field Global Delivery Chenjezo Grant Gonani wants to build culturally relevant mental health care Reason and Whimsy PhD student Amy Schade is grounded in logic, open to serendipity Dual Nature Rumana Rashid integrates cultures, disciplines The central thing… is the sense of uniqueness and individuality of each patient… at every level from the neuronal to the spiritual. Oliver Sacks 1989 Class Day guest speaker Perspectives in Medicine Physician Plus Kia Byrd's travels revealed she must treat policy issues as well as patients Revelations Galina Gheihman found her road to becoming a doctor changed her deeply Crossing Bridges Rachel Wolfson's journey to biomedical science was fueled by imagination View Video The year 2000 and beyond will reveal a medicine of power and subtlety now difficult to imagine. But the relation between medicine and philosophy will not change. Daniel Tosteson 1979 Class Day valediction To the Nines HMS Class Day through the decades in years ending in ‘9’ Historic Harvard archive photos highlight solemn and joyous graduation milestones and moments at Harvard Medical School and the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Image prep by Maya Rucinski-Szwec In 1869, Edwin C. J. T. Howard and Thomas Graham Dorsey are the first black graduates of HMS. Robert Tanner Freeman (pictured) is the first black graduate of Harvard Dental School. A photo and schematic show the Class of 1909 as freshmen outside the 688 Boylston Street building, one of the School's early locations. In 1949, these 12 women became the first to graduate from HMS, having faced several challenges, including a lack of ladies’ rooms on campus and the need to live in boarding houses instead of in Vanderbilt Hall. “With a parting salute, he drove the beribboned car to the edge of the quadrangle, only to have it promptly tagged for illegal parking.” —Harvard Medical Alumni Bulletin, July 1959 In 1969, the month before graduation was overshadowed by the Harvard Strike. One of the students’ demands was “No destruction of black workers’ homes around the Medical School.” Former Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein, MD 1979, performed two original songs on Class Day: “Golden Morning” and “Hospital Blues.” Graduates in 1989 wore white armbands to mourn the death of those involved in the Tiananmen Square protests in Beijing. Pictured from left: HSDM grads Justin Bass, Jean Bruch, Richard Chang and Devin Choi. In 1999, more women than men graduated from HMS for the first time, and nearly 20% of the class was from groups underrepresented in medicine. This is our dilemma: that life is short and the art long, the occasion instant, experiment perilous, decision difficult. John Maltsberger III 1959 student speaker MD 2019 A Defining Moment of Vulnerability Damari Croswell finds the power to fight for disadvantaged patients by listening Read MD 2019 A Defining Moment of Harmony Elliana Kirsch finds magic in the integration of medicine and music Read MD 2019 A Defining Moment of Advocacy Dalia Larios Chavez has a desire to empower and serve patients Read MD 2019 A Defining Moment of Convergence Ronit Malka’s inspiring experiences in the lab, the military and the hospital come together Read MD 2019 A Defining Moment of Care Delivery Rumbidzai Mushavi wants to bring medical advances to all people in need Read Graduation Prequel: Match Day With graduation in sight, HMS students learned where they will train HMS students captured in photos celebrating their residency placements Commencement Exercises at Harvard Yard Thursday, May 30, 8:00 – 11:30 a.m. President Bacow confers degrees on graduates of all Harvard University schools. Morning exercises are held rain or shine in Tercentenary Theatre and will be livestreamed on the Harvard home page. This year’s Harvard University Commencement speaker is Angela Merkel. Students receiving medical, dental, master's and doctoral degrees celebrate at Harvard Yard. Class Day on the Quad Thursday, May 30, 2 p.m. Students are granted the MD or DMD degree and any other advanced degrees they have earned; they are hooded and receive their diplomas. Whether across campus or across the globe, friends and family of HMS and HSDM graduates can view the ceremonies via HMS livestream. Information about specific timelines and other details are distributed directly to graduating students. Mona Hanna-Attisha. Image: Mike Naddeco Flint Activist to be HMS Class Day Speaker Mona Hanna-Attisha, the pediatrician, educator and public health advocate whose research exposed the lead crisis in the water supply in Flint, Michigan, in 2015, will be the keynote speaker. She has received the Ridenhour Prize for Truth-Telling and the PEN American Center James C. Goodale Freedom of Expression Award and was named a Union of Concerned Scientists 2016 "Got Science?" Champion, among other honors. Read more about Hanna-Attisha here. Master's Graduation Ceremony Keynote speaker: Margaret Hamburg, chair of the board, American Association for the Advancement of Science Wednesday, May 29, 4 p.m. Joseph B. Martin Conference Center Amphitheater New Research Building Harvard Medical School 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur Division of Medical Sciences Hooding Ceremony Thursday, May 30, 5:15 p.m. Joseph B. Martin Conference Center Amphitheater New Research Building Harvard Medical School 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur Harvard Chan School Convocation Ceremony Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health convocation ceremony will be held on the HMS Quad on Wednesday, May 29, 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. Harvard Commencement and HMS Class Day 2019 #HARVARDMED19 Use #HarvardMed19 to tag any of your social posts as you celebrate graduation. Follow Facebook, Twitter and Instagram for posts by the HMS social team from Harvard Yard and the Quad. Use the Snapchat geofilter to share this year's Class Day events. Feel free to use our standard geofilter for your snaps as well. Security and Campus Safety at HMS Harvard University Police Department (HUPD) Urgent: (617) 495-1212 Longwood: (617) 432-1212 Business: (617) 495-1215 Education & Admissions Graduation Ceremony Information Graduation 2021 Graduation 2020 Graduation 2019 Class Day 2018 Class Day 2017 Class Day 2016 Class Day 2015 Class Day 2014 Class Day 2013 Class Day 2012 Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College