Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Class Day 2017 Blue Skies Ahead HMS Class of 2017 grads celebrate, look to future Gray skies did little to dampen the spirits of more than 200 Harvard medical and dental school graduates who received their diplomas at the 2017 Harvard Medical School Class Day on May 25. Read the full story. Scholarship and Service Dean Daley exhorts graduates to pursue their ideals and serve the world Twenty-six years after he graduated from HMS, Dean George Q. Daley gave his own Class Day keynote address. Read more about Dean Daley's speech. The Purpose of Medical School HMS/HSDM Class Day remarks highlight the privilege and joy of a caring profession Members of the HMS/HSDM community drew inspiration and guidance from the words of the 2017 Class Day speakers, including three graduating students and their deans. Click here for more on what they had to say about the true purpose of medical school. About Commencement and Class Day Graduation is a day of ceremony and celebration at Harvard University and Harvard Medical School. Students are granted the M.D. and any other advanced degrees they have earned; they are hooded and they receive their diplomas. Graduation consists of two parts: the Commencement Ceremony and Class Day. Information about specific timelines and other details are distributed directly to graduating students. Class Day on the Quad Anticipating their futures in science and medicine, HMS and HSDM graduates celebrate their achievements. View slideshow The Class of 2017 Recites the Oath After receiving their diplomas, the Class of 2017 recited an oath that they wrote as a class with friends and family members who are are also doctors. Experience the oath from the students' perspective in this 360º video. View 360 video Commencement 2017 Photo Gallery Celebrations don’t stop for rain as HMS and HSDM graduates attend commencement exercises in Harvard Yard. View slideshow Preparing to Lead and Serve Dean Daley offers guidance for a lifetime of learning, leadership and service. Read speech » Education & Admissions Graduation Ceremony Information Graduation 2021 Graduation 2020 Graduation 2019 Class Day 2018 Class Day 2017 Class Day 2016 Class Day 2015 Class Day 2014 Class Day 2013 Class Day 2012 Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College