Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Class Day 2013 ‘Put Patients First’ IOM president offers guiding principles for a new generation of medical professionals Keynote speaker Harvey Fineberg, HMS ’71 and president of the Institute of Medicine, advised graduates to be honest with patients and themselves. Image: Steve Lipofsky Keynote speaker Harvey Fineberg, HMS ’71 and president of the Institute of Medicine, advised graduates to be honest with patients and themselves. Image: Steve Lipofsky The newest graduates of Harvard Medical School and Harvard School of Dental Medicine heard words of celebration and challenge from their deans and from keynote speaker Harvey Fineberg during Class Day ceremonies on May 30. The remarks were leavened with reminders that the professional journeys they begin today will be different than those of their predecessors because medicine itself is changing rapidly. On an exceptionally warm spring day under white tents on the HMS quad, the Class of 2013 was showered with whoops of applause for the graduates and oohs of tenderness for the children some of them held as they accepted their crimson hoods. Before they switched the tassels on their mortarboards from left to right, however, the day’s speakers dispensed advice about the professions they are joining. “Put patients first,” declared Harvey Fineberg ’71, president of the Institute of Medicine, the health arm of the National Academy of Sciences. “If you put your patients first, everything else will fall into place.” An emeritus professor of health policy and management at the Harvard School of Public Health and a graduate of Harvard College, HMS, the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Fineberg has also been the provost of Harvard University and devoted his career to health policy and medical decision-making. Fineberg warned the graduates that putting patients first won’t always be easy. Now more than ever, he said, patients come to doctors armed with information. Watson, the IBM computer that beat “Jeopardy!” champion Ken Jennings, is just the beginning of improved information at the fingertips of both doctors and patients, he said. Information and education, however, may not be enough to prepare new doctors for the questions they will face from patients. Even precision medicine—the ability to better match treatments to individuals—will no doubt improve care, but that’s not all there is to medicine, Fineberg told the graduates. “No matter how molecularly dissected the diagnosis will be, no matter how much information you have about any one organ system that may be malfunctioning, you’re always going to have to take a step back and keep in place, in mind, and in your heart the whole of the person before you,” he said. Fineberg outlined three distinctive styles of practice. He called them the authoritarian doctor who tells the patient what to do, the “post-modern information provider” who advises the patient on how to decide what to do, and the doctor as partner who works together with the patient to define the patient’s needs and help the patient achieve his or her goals. It’s easy to become distracted or to lose perspective about what matters to the patient, Fineberg acknowledged, no matter how the graduates choose to practice medicine. Fineberg subscribes to the partnership model, but he concedes that might not be the right approach for all patients or all circumstances. To make his point, he cited a posthumous article published in 1980 by the eminent gastroenterologist and New England Journal of Medicineeditor Franz Ingelfinger. Even Ingelfinger, who knew more than most about his esophageal cancer, just wanted his physician to tell him the right thing to do. “If you put your patient first, you’re going to discern, ‘What does this patient need now from me?’ ” Fineberg told the graduates. “If you can achieve the wisdom to understand what this patient needs, you have truly put your patient first. You will have earned today’s degree.” Before presenting diplomas, Jeffrey S. Flier, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Harvard University, told the graduates their careers will blossom during an era in medicine that is evolving quickly, making it both demanding and exhilarating. “The face of health care has been rapidly transforming during your years here,” Flier said. “The way you will practice medicine over the next 10 or 20 years promises to differ greatly from what you have experienced thus far at HMS.” He expressed confidence, however, that the graduates are well-equipped to meet the challenges ahead—known and unknown. “You have labored long and displayed exceptional intellect and spirit,” Flier said. “Embrace the privilege of entering the medical profession. You are surely equal to it.” —Elizabeth Cooney CLASS DAY 2013 PHOTO GALLERY HMS and HSDM graduates reflect on accomplishments, ready for the future View the photo gallery HARVARD'S NEWEST DOCTORS For 161 new MDs and 37 new DMDs, the future of medicine has arrived Read the story COMMENCEMENT PHOTO GALLERY Harvard University confers degrees on HMS and HSDM graduates View the photo gallery CHANGE IN MEDICINE Theme for New HMS Grads Read quotes from Class Day DEAN FLIER'S REMARKS Medicine in an age of change Read Dean Flier's Class Day remarks Education & Admissions Graduation Ceremony Information Graduation 2021 Graduation 2020 Graduation 2019 Class Day 2018 Class Day 2017 Class Day 2016 Class Day 2015 Class Day 2014 Class Day 2013 Class Day 2012 Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College