Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Graduation Table of Contents MD/DMD Class of 2022 Master's Class of 2022 PhD Class of 2022 Classes of 2020 and 2021 Alumni Connections × MD/DMD Class of 2022 Master's Class of 2022 PhD Class of 2022 Classes of 2020 and 2021 Alumni Connections Celebrating the Classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022 MD/DMD Class of 2022 Together, At Last 2022 grads celebrate success while striving for change in a challenging time. Read the full story here. "Hope and action, in solidarity with others, will help you cure a sick child, change a local system, and even move the levers of power." —Joia Mukherjee × Watch the Livestream, May 26. You will be instrumental in determining the future trajectory of human health and well-being, and that is both a responsibility and an opportunity. —George Q. Daley Keynote and Deans' Speeches Trouble the Waters No Singular Hero Immense Pride, Collective Relief Never forget that you're treating the patient, but you're healing the person. —Samuel Stafford Lyon Student Class Day Speeches Embracing Uncertainty Reflections on Purpose What Is Success? Commencement at Harvard Yard HMS and HSDM students celebrate their imminent graduation at Commencement Morning Exercises. ... Profiles of 2022 MD Grads Sameen Meshkin. Image: Gretchen Ertl The Eyes Have It MD graduate Sameen Meshkin sees residency in ophthalmology as a way to continue serving. Read more about Meshkin's medical school journey and youth empowerment work. Jennifer Cloutier. Image: Gretchen Ertl The Promise of Regeneration MD/PhD graduate Jennifer Cloutier has a habit of pushing limits. Read about her experience as a champion water-skier and her work as a physician-scientist. How Consequential Life Grew from a Dying Heart Everything is Within Reach for MD Grads Between Army and Medical School, a Stop in Hell Profiles of 2022 DMD Grads HSDM's graduates look to make an impact in oral surgery, community health, dentistry and medicine, and more. Read profiles of the dental school graduates here. I believe everyone should have access to quality healthcare regardless of income. Everything starts with prevention. ... In my career, I want to provide the best quality care for people that need it the most. —Michael Cevallos, DMD 2022 Commissioning Ceremony ... Global Health Leader Named Class Day Speaker Partners In Health CMO Joia Mukherjee to address Class of 2022 Together for Match Day Read about the HMS Class of 2022 gathering to learn where they will do their residencies Master's Class of 2022 Up to the Challenge HMS master's grads urged to build healthier, more equitable world. Read the full story here. Graduating master's degree students attend the first in-person graduation ceremony at Harvard Medical School since 2019. Image: Steve Lipofsky Master's Degree Ceremony The world, in many ways, is looking to public health and health care and their communities to lead. Your advocacy, whether within systems' walls or outside of them, on behalf of others and yourselves, is credible and crucial. —Aletha Maybank × Watch the livestream Wed., May 25, 12:30 p.m. Master's Student Profile Vincent Bain. Image; Gretchen Ertl An Untapped Resource Master's graduate Vincent Bain to serve as chaplain bioethicist in the U.S. Army. Read about Bain's educational and military career that has led him to guide soldiers and patients. AMA Senior Vice President, Chief Health Equity Officer Named Master's Class of 2022 Keynote Speaker Aletha Maybank Aletha Maybank is the chief health equity officer and senior vice president for the American Medical Association, where she focuses on embedding health equity into everything the AMA does and leading its Center for Health Equity. A pediatrician and preventive medicine/public health physician, Maybank has taught medical and public health students on topics such as health inequities, public health leadership and management, physician advocacy, and community organizing in health. Read more about Maybank on the AMA site. PhD Class of 2022 × Watch the livestream Thurs., May 26, 5:15 p.m. "In whatever way you can, help others as you move forward in your lives." Adam Carte, PhD 2022 Hooding Ceremony ... PhD Student Profiles Eduardo Maury. Image: Gretchen Ertl Exploring the Brain PhD grad Eduardo Maury is deciphering somatic mutations to better understand neurological disease. Read about the influence his neurosurgeon father had on his career, and the role Maury's mentors played in his growth as a scientist. Xavier du Maine Stepping Stones Xavier du Maine, PhD ’22, studies the blood-brain barrier and is planning for an administrative career in higher education where he will continue to work for a more inclusive STEM community. Read Stepping Stones here. Classes of 2020 and 2021 × Watch the livestream Fri., May 27, 10:15 a.m. As we move forward, I encourage us all to keep setting challenging goals, push out of our comfort zones, and use our hard-earned skills to tackle the many and diverse problems that lie ahead of us. Kayla Davis, PhD 2020 Hooding Ceremony ... × Watch the livestream Sun., May 29, 1 p.m. Alumni from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 return to campus on May 29, 2022, to celebrate in-person at a special graduation ceremony. View the 2021 virtual Class Day and Master's Graduation ceremonies and learn more about the graduates. Relive the 2020 virtual Class Day and Master's Graduation ceremonies and learn more about the graduates. Graduation Celebration ... Alumni Connections Keep in touch, register for events, and access benefits. MD alumni Master's alumni DMD alumni PhD alumni Education & Admissions Graduation Ceremony Information Graduation 2021 Graduation 2020 Graduation 2019 Class Day 2018 Class Day 2017 Class Day 2016 Class Day 2015 Class Day 2014 Class Day 2013 Class Day 2012 Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College