Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine News & Research Children at Higher Risk Race, ethnicity, poverty linked to worse outcomes in children treated for high-risk neuroblastoma By DANA FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE June 1, 2022 Research Care Delivery 4 min read Image: Golfcuk. iStock/Getty Images Plus Children with high-risk neuroblastoma had worse outcomes if they were from certain racial/ethnic groups, or were on public rather than private insurance, despite being treated in clinical trials with standardized protocols, according to a new study led by Harvard Medical School investigators at Dana-Farber/Boston Children’s Cancer and Blood Disorders Center. The study shows that young patients from historically marginalized populations, or from lower-income backgrounds, had poorer five-year survival rates, even when they were assigned to receive uniform initial treatment after diagnosis with high-risk neuroblastoma. Get more HMS news here “These findings recapitulate what we have known for decades at the population level—children from historically marginalized groups are less likely to survive their cancer,” said Puja J. Umaretiya, HMS clinical fellow in pediatrics at Dana-Farber/Boston Children’s. Related Stories Agent of Mischief HMS scientists untangle a twisted plot of epigenetic malfunction that gives rise to aggressive rhabdoid cancers. When One Is Really Four Single-cell sequencing reveals glioblastoma’s shape-shifting nature “They add an essential next layer to our understanding of racial and ethnic disparities in childhood cancer, that enrollment on clinical trials is not enough to achieve racial and ethnic equity in survival,” she said. Umaretiya is presenting the study results at the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting, June 3-7, 2022. “Clinical trials represent highly standardized care¾yet even when receiving care on clinical trials, children with high-risk neuroblastoma do not experience the same outcomes based on their race, ethnicity, and whether they live in poverty,” said Umaretiya, lead author of the study. “This is key, because thus far attention has been paid to getting historically marginalized groups to trials with the assumption that this will reduce survival disparities, but our data suggest that in pediatrics, trial enrollment is a first step, but clearly not a sufficient one.” The study’s senior author is Kira Bona, HMS assistant professor of pediatrics and a pediatric oncologist at Dana-Farber/Boston Children’s with research focused on identifying poverty-associated outcome disparities in childhood cancer and developing interventions to mitigate those disparities. “That stark racial/ethnic disparities in survival persist despite clinical trial participation makes it crystal clear that pediatric oncology trials must incorporate health equity interventions. If a new gene mutation were found to increase risk for trial-enrolled patients, pediatric oncology would not hesitate to begin intervening,” Bona said. “That same urgency must apply to these data. It is imperative that pediatric oncologists begin to test health care delivery and supportive care interventions in our trials just like we do new drugs.” The study looked at outcomes in 696 children enrolled in three Children’s Oncology Group (COG) clinical trials of treatment for high-risk neuroblastoma. Neuroblastoma is a type of cancer that forms in nerve tissue. It frequently begins in one of the adrenal glands but can also originate in the neck, chest, abdomen, or spine. High-risk disease is defined by age, how widely the disease has spread, and biologic characteristics of the cancer cells. The prognosis for long-term survival remains challenging. Treatment is usually an intensive combination of chemotherapy, surgery, stem cell transplantation, radiation, and immunotherapy. Of the 696 patients in the COG trials, 11 percent were Hispanic, 16 percent were Black non-Hispanic, 4 percent were other non-Hispanic, and 69 percent were white non-Hispanic. One-third of the children were household poverty-exposed (covered by public insurance); 26 percent were exposed to neighborhood level poverty (living in a high-poverty zip code defined by 20 percent or more of the population living below the federal poverty line). The five-year overall survival rate varied by race/ethnicity (47 percent for Hispanic children; 50 percent for other non-Hispanic children; 61 percent for white non-Hispanic children; and 63 percent for Black non-Hispanic children). After adjusting for disease-associated factors, Hispanic children were 1.8 times more likely to die and other non-Hispanic patients were 1.5 times more likely to die than white non-Hispanic children. Patients who had only public insurance (a proxy for household poverty) had a 53 percent five-year survival rate compared to 63 percent for others. The survival rate was also lower¾54 percent¾in children living in neighborhood level poverty compared with 62 percent for others. “A huge strength of the way that this dataset was created is that we have the ability to look at potential mechanisms that may explain these survival disparities,” said Umaretiya. “For the first time, we will be able to ask whether certain groups experienced delays in therapy or were more likely to stop participating in trials perhaps because of competing family needs secondary to poverty,” she said. “Most importantly, we will be able to start to look at what happens after relapse¾a time when we know treatment becomes less standardized, which may increase the chance that racial, ethnic, or socioeconomic privilege helps some families access life-extending therapy for their children while others are less able to. Understanding what happens after relapse will be essential to guiding interventions to improve survival disparities, and we are excited to take this on next,” she said. Related News What to Know About Monkeypox May 25, 2022 An unfamiliar virus spreading fast. Sound familiar? Exploring the Brain May 4, 2022 PhD grad Eduardo Maury is deciphering somatic mutations to better understand neurological disease Making Healing Affordable April 18, 2022 Low-cost wound therapy pumps make lifesaving difference Trending News Remembrance of Viral Encounters Past May 20, 2022 Untangling the mysteries of immune recall Together, At Last May 26, 2022 2022 HMS, HSDM grads celebrate success while striving for change in a challenging time Doctors, Sleep, and Patient Safety May 12, 2022 National policy leads to reduction in harmful, fatal medical errors News Topic Menu News Topics Research Awards and Achievements Care Delivery HMS Community Education Stay Up to Date First Name Last Name Email Address Which publications would you like to receive? harvard_medicine_magazine Harvard Medicine magazine (three times a year) Harvard Medicine News (weekly) On the Brain (quarterly) RSS Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College