Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Development Imagine a World Can you imagine a world where health is assumed and illness is the exception? Where kids can be spared from hereditary diseases before they’re born? Where no disease is a death sentence? Where doctors have the privilege of focusing on wellness, and medicine is all about enriching the quality of life? At Harvard Medical School, we are working to make this world a reality. Medical breakthroughs in the next 50 years will dwarf those of the last 1,000. Our mission is to lead the way in this new era of possibility. We cannot think of any more audacious or worthy goal than to transform the future of human health and well-being. Join us. Your partnership and passion are critical to our progress. Make an Outright Gift Outright gifts are a donation of cash or other assets such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, real estate, retirement plan assets, and/or personal property. Visit our secure online gift form » Make a check payable to Harvard Medical School and mail to: Harvard Medical School Alumni Affairs and Development P.O. Box 419720 Boston, MA 02241-9720 Please include a note with your full name, address, and phone number Call 617-384-8500 Donor-Advised Fund (DAF) Make an annual gift from your DAF to HMS. After creating the DAF, you can direct annual distributions to your favorite charities. You enjoy the simplicity and anonymity of recommending a distribution from your DAF to HMS to support medical education, biomedical research, or health care service. If you have an account with Fidelity Charitable, Schwab Charitable, or BNY Mellon, select your fund provider’s name and you will be taken to their website to complete your gift. If your provider is not listed, contact them directly with a request to make a gift to HMS on your behalf: Make a check payable to Harvard Medical School, including a note with your full name, address, and phone number and mail to: Harvard Medical School Alumni Affairs and Development P.O. Box 419720 Boston, MA 02241-9720 More Ways to Give Tribute Gifts Make your gift in honor of someone, in celebration of a special occasion, or in memory of a loved one. Mail your check, made payable to Harvard Medical School, and including a note with your full name, address, phone number, and who your gift is honoring, to: Harvard Medical School Alumni Affairs and Development P.O. Box 419720 Boston, MA 02241-9720 Securities (Stocks, Bonds, and Mutual Funds) To make a gift of securities, please contact the Harvard Management Company at 866-845-6596 or donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu. Learn more about gifts of stock » To ensure proper processing of your gift, please notify Harvard of the stock transfer by completing this online form. All mutual fund transfers must be coordinated with Harvard Management Company. For HMC to determine the appropriate instructions, please call 866-845-6596 or email donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu with the following information: the name of the mutual fund, the number of shares, date of acquisition, and where the fund shares are currently held. For more information, please call Kate Murphy, managing director of gift planning at 617-384-8507 or 800-922-1782 or email kathleen_murphy@hms.harvard.edu. Real Estate or Personal Property Donate your personal residence, vacation home, farm or agricultural land, ranch, commercial property or lot, undeveloped or unimproved land or consider works of art, antiques, gold, stamps, coins, jewelry, patents, copyrights, etc. For more information, please call Kate Murphy, managing director of gift planning at 617-384-8507 or 800-922-1782 or email kathleen_murphy@hms.harvard.edu. Beneficiary Designations Designating HMS as a beneficiary of your IRA, investment account, savings account, or donor-advised fund is as easy as filling out a form. These assets make for tax-wise gifts to HMS—especially retirement accounts, which can be the most highly-taxed asset many people hold and are subject to income tax when distributed if left to individuals. How it works: Name HMS as a full or partial beneficiary of the remainder of your IRA, 401(k), 403(b), Keogh, tax-deferred annuity, or other qualified retirement plan. Also consider other accounts in your asset umbrella such as investment accounts, savings accounts, or donor-advised funds. Request a change of beneficiary form from your plan administrator and name the “President and Fellows of Harvard College, for the benefit of Harvard Medical School” as a beneficiary, along with the percentage you would like HMS to receive. Complete the form and submit it to your broker, banker, or agent. In many cases, the process can be completed online. If you are 72 years old or older, you can transfer up to $100,000 from your IRA directly to Harvard Medical School. CHECK Download the IRA Rollover Letter of Instruction and request that your IRA administrator issues a check for your selected dollar amount directly to HMS. STOCKS/SECURITIES Contact the Harvard Management Company at 866-845-6596 or donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu. To ensure proper processing of your gift, please notify Harvard of the transfer by completing this online form. WIRE TRANSFERS Direct transfer to the following account: Bank of America, 100 Federal Street, Boston, MA 02110 President and Fellows of Harvard College, ADS account Account #: 9429263621 Ach ABA: 011000138 Wire ABA: 026009593 Swift Code: BOFAUS3N Once the wire transfer arrangements have been made, please provide the following information to giftplanning@hms.harvard.edu: Name/location of bank sending the transfer Amount of gift / Date of transfer Name of the HMS fund, program, or research area the gift is supporting Give Now Sidebar navigation - Departments Departments Giving Make Your Gift Now Types of Gifts Our Donors Campaign AAD COVID-19 Event Policies Contact Us Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College