Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine News & Research Together for Match Day Class of 2022 students gather to learn where they will do residencies By M.R.F. BUCKLEY March 18, 2022 Education HMS Community 5 min read ... Match Day at any medical school, in any year, is a special day. It brings a long-awaited moment when a graduate’s dreams are realized after years of hard work, when students learn where they will be spending the next phase of their medical training. But this year, for the first time since the COVID-19 pandemic began, members of Harvard Medical School’s graduating class were able to gather in person for Match Day, making it an extra special occasion as they ripped open envelopes at noon to learn where they matched for their residencies. Get more HMS news here “I’m thrilled. I’m so happy with my match. It’s a joy to do this with my classmates and with our families,” said Sam Doernberg, who matched in internal medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. Doernberg, his sister, and his parents joined scores of other students and their family members and friends in a crowded and noisy Tosteson Medical Education Center atrium on March 18 for the traditional bell-ringing that signaled the official release of match information from the National Resident Matching Program (NRMP). For the past two years, because of the pandemic, HMS students participated in the Match Day ritual via videoconferencing, sometimes far removed from family, friends, and classmates. This year, they were able to attend in person or join remotely, connecting to the ceremony via large computer screens placed in the TMEC atrium. The roar in the atrium was a cacophony of elation as students, family, friends, faculty, staff, and fellow students crowded the hall and atrium balconies to celebrate. When HMS Dean for Students Fidencio Saldaña rang the bell signaling it was time to open envelopes, a cry erupted from the gathered throng, and the happiness in the room seemed almost palpable. “As you know, the pandemic was a very isolating time for us, without friends and family,” said graduating student David Bunn, who matched in internal medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. “To be able to share this with friends and family, to share with my close HMS friends, who are also my family, it means everything.” “We’re so happy to be here together, to close this out the way we started, together,” said Juliet Musabeyezu, who matched with Brigham and Women’s in obstetrics and gynecology. “We’ve gone through so much.” “It means everything to be celebrating with classmates after not being able to see them for two years,” said Edgar Garcia Saiz, who matched in pediatrics and urban health advocacy at Boston Children’s Hospital. “It’s a lot. It’s been so long since we’ve all been together. We’ve worked so hard,” said Josie Francois, who matched in psychiatry at Brigham and Women’s. Each year, tens of thousands of medical students across the country submit applications and interview at hospitals across the U.S. in the hope of matching with a residency program in the specialty that interests them. They rank their preferences through the NRMP, which uses a computer algorithm to place students into residency spots. The NRMP is a nonprofit organization sponsored by several national medical societies to provide an orderly and fair way to match graduate medical applicants to U.S. residency positions This year, the 158 graduating HMS students matched to 145 clinical residencies, with 10 students embarking on nonclinical careers and three entering Massachusetts General Hospital’s oral and maxillofacial surgery program. Although students will travel to all parts of the country for their residencies, close to half, 48 percent, will remain in Massachusetts for their clinical training, while 12 percent matched in California and 8 percent matched in the metropolitan New York area. The largest group, representing 30 percent of graduating HMS students, matched in internal medicine, with the next largest group, at 10 percent, matching in pediatrics. “It is really very special to be able to gather as a community to celebrate the students’ achievements,” said Saldaña, who thanked the HMS IT department for making it possible for all the graduating students and guests, whether in the atrium or online, to be able to share in the excitement and joy. And for faculty, as much as for students, it was special to be together again. “This is an exciting moment for me, to be able to actually see the students and to hear the students. This is what it’s all about,” said Joan Reede, HMS dean for diversity and community partnership. “It’s absolutely fabulous. We’ve missed each other so much. It’s a long time coming,” said Jenny Potter, HMS professor of medicine and advisory dean for the William Bosworth Castle Society. Class president Derek Soled addressed the students shortly before the matches were revealed. He invited his classmates to go back in time to 2018, when he and several other students stood on a TMEC balcony and watched that year’s match ceremony, trying to imagine what Match Day would be like when their turn arrived. He congratulated this year’s “newest minted resident physicians.” “Regardless of where the letters and envelopes send us, I am confident that because of our training here, in the learning studios and hospitals, we are prepared to take care of patients at the bedside and beyond, as leaders in medicine,” said Soled. Dean for Medical Education Edward Hundert congratulated the students, but also reminded them of the responsibilities that lie ahead, invoking the memory of Paul Farmer, a beloved faculty member who died suddenly in February. Farmer, a renowned physician and pioneer in global health care, used to say that HMS students were his “retirement plan,” according to Hundert, because they would carry on the important work of providing care for all people around the world. “The thing that Paul always inspired us all to think about is that every patient you interact with, every staff member in the hospital, everyone you meet is equally part of your family,” said Hundert. “So, I think in light of his passing, if everyone can remember, no matter how busy you are as an intern or resident, and for the rest of your career, as you walk into a patient’s room ... as you go through that door, think to yourself, ‘If this patient were a member of my family, what would I do next?’ And then walk through that door." Photos: Steve Lipofsky Related News Doctors, Sleep, and Patient Safety May 12, 2022 National policy leads to reduction in harmful, fatal medical errors A Troubling Trend May 11, 2022 MassCPR experts discuss the current state of the pandemic and therapies for COVID-19 Early Warning System? May 5, 2022 Accumulation of amyloid-beta and tau proteins can disrupt brain connectivity years before Alzheimer... Trending News Remembrance of Viral Encounters Past May 20, 2022 Untangling the mysteries of immune recall Together, At Last May 26, 2022 2022 HMS, HSDM grads celebrate success while striving for change in a challenging time Doctors, Sleep, and Patient Safety May 12, 2022 National policy leads to reduction in harmful, fatal medical errors News Topic Menu News Topics Research Awards and Achievements Care Delivery HMS Community Education Stay Up to Date First Name Last Name Email Address Which publications would you like to receive? harvard_medicine_magazine Harvard Medicine magazine (three times a year) Harvard Medicine News (weekly) On the Brain (quarterly) RSS Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College