Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Class Day 2018 Commencement and Class Day 2018 Roundup Into the Future More than 200 HMS/HSDM graduates gathered under a whimsically arched tent to celebrate their new degrees as they look forward to beginning the next phase of their careers as researchers, educators and caregivers. Read full story. Make It Matter Two decades after graduating from HMS, award-winning television writer/producer and public health advocate Neal Baer returned to the Quad to deliver a message drawn from his own experience: “Tell your stories. Make them matter.” Read full story. The Great Society of Medicine This year's Class Day speakers offered a wide range of ways for the new HMS graduates to think about—and revolutionize—how health care is delivered in the U.S. Read excerpts and full speeches. Passion and Practice The Master's Degree Programs Graduation Ceremony celebrated graduates who completed creative and diligent work in advanced biomedical and health studies. Read the full story and speeches. Congratulations, HMS and HSDM Class of 2018! Harvard Medical School/Harvard School of Dental Medicine Commencement and Class Day took place Thursday, May 24, 2018. On this day of ceremony and festivities, graduating students were granted their degrees and celebrated their accomplishments. Watch the Ceremonies Full video is available of Class Day 2018. × Class Day 2018 Youtube Video Photo Gallery CLASS DAY ON THE QUAD HMS and HSDM graduates celebrate before stepping off the Quad and into their future as leaders, scientists and healers. View slideshow. Photo Gallery COMMENCEMENT 2018 PHOTO GALLERY HMS and HSDM grads celebrate their achievements at Harvard Yard. View slideshow. Related Links Essays from Graduating Students Seven MD, Master’s and PhD students share their stories and their beliefs in the promise of medicine.See full series. News The Harvard Gazette features graduating HMS and HSDM students: Lindsay D'Amato Margot Mai Mary Tate News Graduation Throwback Historical photos and documents from the archives of the Center for the History of Medicine.See more Education & Admissions Graduation Ceremony Information Graduation 2021 Graduation 2020 Graduation 2019 Class Day 2018 Class Day 2017 Class Day 2016 Class Day 2015 Class Day 2014 Class Day 2013 Class Day 2012 Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College