Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine News & Research In Memoriam: Paul Farmer HMS, world lose global health pioneer, renowned humanitarian By HMS COMMUNICATIONS February 21, 2022 Research Education HMS Community 5 min read HMS global health pioneer Paul Farmer died in Rwanda on Feb. 21 at the age of 62. Image: Gretchen Ertl Paul Edward Farmer, a pioneering Harvard Medical School global health physician and medical anthropologist who dedicated his life to improving and providing health care in some of the world’s most underserved countries and communities, died in his sleep from an acute cardiac event in Rwanda on Feb. 21. He was 62. Farmer was the Kolokotrones University Professor and chair of the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine in the Blavatnik Institute at HMS, and chief of the Division of Global Health Equity at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. He was also chancellor of the University of Global Health Equity (UGHE) in Rwanda, a model academic institution recently praised in the UNESCO Global Education Monitoring report. Get more HMS news here Related Stories Irrigating the Clinical Desert Paul Farmer on the chronic roots of acute health crises New Beginnings Dean Daley, Paul Farmer celebrate launch of world’s first med school dedicated to global health equity Supporting the Future Spotlight on Medical Education celebrates HMS students, philanthropists Real Resolve Paul Farmer sees reason for hope in Haiti’s homegrown response to summer of suffering Bending the Arc Paul Farmer and Jim Yong Kim discuss their work for global health equity at a preview of a new documentary chronicling their work. “Paul dedicated his life to improving human health and advocating for health equity and social justice on a global scale,” said HMS Dean George Q. Daley in a letter to the HMS community. “I am particularly shaken by his passing because he was not only a consummate colleague and a beloved mentor, but a close friend. To me, Paul represented the heart and soul of Harvard Medical School.” “Paul Farmer’s loss is devastating, but his vision for the world will live on through Partners In Health,” said PIH CEO Sheila Davis in a statement. Partners In Health is a global public health organization that Farmer co-founded. “Paul taught all those around him the power of accompaniment, love for one another, and solidarity. Our deepest sympathies are with his family.” Farmer was a renowned humanitarian who worked hand in hand with local governments and organizations around the world, including those in many rural and underserved communities, to establish partnerships to help build hospitals, train medical workers, and establish community clinics in remote, impoverished areas where residents would otherwise have had little hope of any kind of health care. He was the chief strategist and co-founder, with Jim Yong Kim, Ophelia Dahl, and Todd McCormack, of the social and health organization Partners In Health. Farmer also served as the United Nations Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Community-based Medicine and Lessons from Haiti, a country where he first worked as a volunteer while still an undergraduate and where he spent much of his life. Nobel Peace Prize laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu called Farmer "one of the great advocates for the poorest and sickest of our planet.” Infectious disease specialist Born in 1959 in North Adams, Massachusetts, Farmer grew up in Florida with his parents and five siblings, living at times in a school bus converted into a mobile home and on a boat. He attended Duke University on a Benjamin N. Duke Scholarship and received his MD and his PhD in 1990 from Harvard University. He specialized in infectious diseases and was the author of more than 200 scientific papers. Farmer began his life’s work as a college volunteer in Haiti in 1983, working with dispossessed farmers in the country’s Central Plateau, where he was struck by the level of care available to impoverished residents. There, he served for 10 years as medical director of L’Hôpital Bon Sauveur, a charity hospital. Farmer once told an interviewer, “There is nothing I like more than building a hospital—that’s what I call a good pastime. ...That inspires me.” Farmer’s work has become a model for health care delivery in underresourced communities worldwide; it laid the groundwork for developing the science of global health delivery implementation. In 1987, Farmer co-founded Partners In Health, the Boston-based international non-profit that provides direct health care services, leading research, and advocacy on behalf of those who are sick and living in poverty. Under Farmer’s leadership, Partners In Health built a hospital in Haiti after an earthquake rocked the country in 2010, fought multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in Peru and around the globe, assisted Liberia and Sierra Leone in tackling Ebola, worked to stop the Zika virus, and is still dedicated to battling emerging new health threats. Farmer’s work with Partners In Health was described in a 2003 book by Pulitzer Prize-winning author Tracy Kidder, Mountains Beyond Mountains: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer, a Man Who Would Cure the World. The book followed Farmer from Harvard to Haiti, Peru, Cuba, and Russia, describing, among other things, how he exported treatment for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis from Haiti to Peru and then to Siberia, achieving cure rates comparable to those in the United States. Because of Farmer’s efforts, Haiti saw higher rates of vaccination and lower rates of infant mortality and malnourishment in areas where PIH was active. Farmer’s work with his colleagues has also been chronicled in the Bulletin of the World Health Organization, The Lancet, the New England Journal of Medicine, Clinical Infectious Diseases, and Social Science and Medicine. Farmer wrote extensively on health, human rights, and the consequences of social inequality. His books include Fevers, Feuds, and Diamonds: Ebola and the Ravages of History; AIDS and Accusation; Haiti after the Earthquake; Infections and Inequalities, The Modern Plagues; To Repair the World: Paul Farmer Speaks to the Next Generation, and A Path Out of Poverty. In addition, Farmer was co-editor of Women, Poverty, and AIDS, The Global Impact of Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis, and Global Health in Times of Violence. Farmer was a recipient of numerous honors, including the 2020 Berggruen Prize for Philosophy and Culture, the Margaret Mead Award from the American Anthropological Association, the American Medical Association’s Outstanding International Physician (Nathan Davis) Award, a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Fellowship and, with his PIH colleagues, the Hilton Humanitarian Prize. He was a member of the National Academy of Medicine and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He is survived by his wife, Didi Bertrand Farmer, and their three children. HMS is planning a community memorial gathering via Zoom and will share details as soon as they are confirmed. To make a gift in memory of Dr. Farmer, visit our giving page, and select “Other” in the dropdown menu. Please indicate your gift should be directed to the Chairs’ Opportunity Fund in memory of Dr. Paul Farmer. Related News Up to the Challenge May 25, 2022 HMS master's grads urged to build healthier, more equitable world Doctors, Sleep, and Patient Safety May 12, 2022 National policy leads to reduction in harmful, fatal medical errors A Troubling Trend May 11, 2022 MassCPR experts discuss the current state of the pandemic and therapies for COVID-19 Trending News Remembrance of Viral Encounters Past May 20, 2022 Untangling the mysteries of immune recall Together, At Last May 26, 2022 2022 HMS, HSDM grads celebrate success while striving for change in a challenging time Doctors, Sleep, and Patient Safety May 12, 2022 National policy leads to reduction in harmful, fatal medical errors News Topic Menu News Topics Research Awards and Achievements Care Delivery HMS Community Education Stay Up to Date First Name Last Name Email Address Which publications would you like to receive? harvard_medicine_magazine Harvard Medicine magazine (three times a year) Harvard Medicine News (weekly) On the Brain (quarterly) RSS Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College