Skip to main content Campus Alert Returning to Campus Information for the HMS Community (Updated May 23, 2022) Close Mobile Main Navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mobile Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Menu Utility Navigation Teaching Hospitals & Affiliates Departments & Offices Dental Medicine Harvard University Giving Search Main navigation Education & Admissions Medical Education MD Admissions Master's Degree Programs PhD Degree Programs Online Learning (HMX) Postgraduate Education Graduation Registrar Executive Education Health Info Research Research Departments, Centers, Initiatives and more Blavatnik Institute Postdoctoral Training HMS Researcher Resources Countway Library of Medicine Paper Chase News & Events News Harvard Medicine magazine Multimedia Longwood Seminars Talks@12 HMS Live Calendar Sign Up for Email Communications For Media Publications Archive Celebrating 50 Years of Diversity and Inclusion About HMS The History of HMS Campus and Culture Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Figures HMS Affiliates LCME Accreditation Social Media Hub Leadership Contact HMS Office of the Dean Returning to Campus Frequently Asked Questions HMS Testing Guide Harvard Coronavirus Website Community Messages HMS Flexwork Initiative Verify Your Vaccination Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard University Health Services HMS Responds to Coronavirus COVID-19 Advisory Team Resources for those affected by War in Ukraine Mission, Community Values & Diversity Statement Our Mission and Values About the HMS Community Values Initiative Awards Wellness at HMS × As you watch the video, see if you can identify the various locations from around our campus, each marked with a number 1-21 in the upper left hand corner. Download a list of the locations. Mission To nurture a diverse, inclusive community dedicated to alleviating suffering and improving health and well-being for all through excellence in teaching and learning, discovery and scholarship, and service and leadership. Community Values Harvard Medical School is a community dedicated to excellence and leadership in medicine through education, research and clinical care. We aspire to excellence through a commitment to our community values. Collaboration & Service We work together to serve our HMS, neighboring, national and global communities. We acknowledge that our behavior affects the experiences of others and act in ways that are kind and respectful to all. Diversity & Respect We value and respect all individuals for their unique perspectives, experiences and potential to contribute. We foster a culture of inclusion and engagement and communicate respectfully. We seek diversity and promote equity and social justice. Integrity & Accountability We conduct our work honestly and ethically. We lead responsibly, hold ourselves accountable and empathetically share constructive feedback. We speak up and empower others to do the same. Lifelong Learning We promote an environment of learning and discovery. We embrace innovation and understand that creative solutions often require taking risks. We strive for excellence through ongoing professional and personal improvement. Wellness & Balance We value the well-being of every member of the community. We encourage and support healthy and productive lifestyles recognizing they require the integration of work and life. We are Harvard Medicine. Diversity Statement Download PDF Watch a recording of the Forum on Diversity and Inclusion here. Learn more about the Office for Diversity Inclusion and Community Partnership (DICP) Harvard Medical School is committed to convening and nurturing a diverse community of individuals dedicated to promoting excellence and leadership in medicine and science through education, research, clinical care and service. Our unique perspectives, talents, experiences and contributions as HMS students, trainees, faculty, staff and administrators are the foundation and drivers of our excellence. We acknowledge the strengths and weaknesses of our history and actively promote social justice, challenge discrimination, and address disparities and inequities. We celebrate the multiple dimensions of diversity that each member of our community offers, including, but not limited to, race, ethnicity, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic circumstance, national origin, geographic background, immigration status, ability and disability, physical characteristics, veteran status, political ideology, religious belief and age. We provide a safe environment where all members of our community can engage in dialogue, question, learn and contribute to their fullest potential. We respect the dignity of all members of our community and aspire to ensure that all feel valued and supported. We provide education and training that emphasize respect for differences in culture, language and life experience and that address both health disparities and the role that implicit and explicit bias can play in decision making. We advance diversity and inclusion in recruitment, admissions, hiring, retention and promotion. We prioritize diversity and inclusion as we develop HMS policies, practices and procedures. We support community engagement and partner with our local, national and global communities to advance the diversity pipeline and eliminate health disparities. We continuously monitor our diversity and inclusion efforts to ensure that the outcomes bring HMS closer to reflecting the diversity found in our patients, community and nation. We each belong to the HMS community. We are Harvard Medicine. Download the Diversity Statement in braille. You can find the Diversity Statement translated into the following languages: Chinese, French, Haitian, Hindi, Portuguese, and Spanish About HMS Campus and Culture Mission, Community Values & Diversity Statement About the HMS Community Values Initiative Awards Wellness at HMS Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 25 Shattuck Street Boston, MA 02115 617-432-1000 Footer MyHMS Mission and Values Privacy Policy Accessibility Contact HMS Jobs Harvard Medicine magazine Alumni © 2022 by The President and Fellows of Harvard College