Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Hatfield Marine Science Center Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Research Academics Facilities Visit Hatfield University Students Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Research Academics Facilities Visit Hatfield Gladys Valley Marine Studies Building Vertical Evacuation Innovation Lab Room Reservations Key Features The Gladys Valley Marine Studies Building (GVMSB) expands Hatfield’s footprint by 72,000 square feet, providing much-needed space for research, meetings, classes and conferences. The addition of the GVMSB allows Hatfield to build capacity, a diversity of labs and expand student programs anchored on the Oregon coast. This new space contains: 6,000 feet of office space 2,563 square-foot Innovation Lab Three additional classrooms (providing seating for 20-36 students each) 250-seat auditorium Expanded chemical labs, computational labs and specialty labs Two meeting rooms (seating for 16 each) A cafe, the first ever on the Hatfield campus, will be located in the sunlit atrium. It will offer coffee, lunch and snacks featuring local food. PLUS a Vertical Evacuation Center for the community! The design of the GVMSB is an engineering model for coastal communities, providing an evacuation spot for up to 920 people in the event of a tsunami. West Webcam South Webcam Building the GVMSB Video Video Tour ilab_cropped_3-colum_fm.jpg Innovation Lab The iLab offers the space and equipment needed to take a project from the idea phase to production and on to market. auditorium_16.9.jpg Auditorium A 250-seat auditorium will increase the capacity for scientific programming and community events. lab_class_16.9.jpg Collaborative Research The MSB adds much-needed lab space to the Hatfield campus. This setting will offer additional opportunities for scientific collaboration and student engagement. lobby_16.9.jpg Lobby and Cafe A cafe, the first ever on the Hatfield campus, is in the sunlit atrium. It is operated by UltraLife and their menu offers coffee, lunch and snacks featuring local food. Open M-F, 7:30 am-2:30 pm. classroom_16.9.jpg Classrooms Three new classrooms will support the interdisciplinary and experiential program for students in the emerging Marine Studies major. artist_blue_mural_16.9.jpg Art Murals and sculpture from regional artists adorn the halls of the MSB. Contact Info Hatfield Marine Science Center 2030 SE Marine Science Drive Newport, OR 97365 Phone: 541-867-0100 Contact Us Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Hatfield Campus Partners: Strength in Collaboration usda_logo_square.png odfw_logo_white_square.png noaa_logo.png epa_logo.png usfish_wildlife_logo.png