Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Hatfield Marine Science Center Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Research Academics Facilities Visit Hatfield University Students Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Research Academics Facilities Visit Hatfield Visitor Center Open - Reservations Required Hatfield Marine Science Center Improving scientific understanding and applying that knowledge to social, economic, and environmental solutions. big_kelsey-wide_small.png 27th Annual Markham Symposium Thursday, June 16 | 2:00 - 5:30 PM Join us in celebrating HMSC student scholarship award winners. These awards, made possible by generous donor contributions, directly support our students and recognize their outstanding research efforts. Plenary talk by Dr. Elizabeth Perotti, Education & Outreach Coordinator, NOAA Ocean Acidification Program A poster session and presentation by student scholarship awardees. Attend in-person or online. See full details. On the Leading Edge The Hatfield Marine Science Center (HMSC) is a distinguished marine laboratory located in Newport, Oregon. Now in its 54th year of operation, HMSC serves as Oregon State University’s coastal campus and as an oceanographic research base for six state and federal agencies. It is also a resource for K-12 educators and the public. At HMSC, we excel in student research opportunities and experiential instruction. We host a thriving summer internship program and offer an array of academic programs for students in community college through post-doc. Expanding our campus The Marine Studies Building houses innovative classrooms and labs design to foster collaboration between disciplines and nurture the next generation of problem solvers. Historically, academia has been committed to producing specialists. Today, we recognize the need for exceptional multi-disciplinary generalists to address the issues of our day. With this goal in mind, we are expanding our curriculum and training to include the humanities, social sciences, and arts to answer the call for the next generation’s needs. research_homepage.jpg academics_frontpage.jpg engagement_homepage.jpg Events News News Feed Oregon Sea Grant awards $1.15 million to OSU researchers for marine-related projects - May 17, 2022 Oregon Sea Grant, a marine research, public engagement and education program at Oregon State University, has awarded $1.15 million to five OSU scientists. … Read full story. Oregon State donors make more than 6,300 gifts totaling $1.55 million in 24 hours - May 2, 2022 Supporters of Oregon State University came together on April 27, 2022, to raise $1.55 million through more than 6,300 gifts during the university’s annual day of giving and engagement. … Read full story. OSU alumna, leader of California marine science center to lead Oregon Sea Grant - Apr 14, 2022 Karina Nielsen, the leader of a marine science center at San Francisco State University and an Oregon State University alumna, has been named director of Oregon Sea Grant, an OSU-based program that supports marine science, education and outreach. … Read full story. Contact Info Hatfield Marine Science Center 2030 SE Marine Science Drive Newport, OR 97365 Phone: 541-867-0100 Contact Us Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Hatfield Campus Partners: Strength in Collaboration usda_logo_square.png odfw_logo_white_square.png noaa_logo.png epa_logo.png usfish_wildlife_logo.png