Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Join Subscribe Resources Rentals Search Visit Programs Support Membership Member Events Donate Volunteer Library Membership Opportunities Exhibitions Education Harvard Students About About HMSC Press Faculty Executive Board Host an Event Opportunities Contact Us HOME / Host an Event The Harvard Museums of Science & Culture (HMSC) offer unique, historic, and captivating venues for a variety of occasions. Steps away from Harvard Yard, our 22 galleries and special exhibit spaces can accommodate everything from intimate dinner parties and cocktail receptions to large-scale corporate events and weddings. Unlike many museum event venues, we are able to offer your guests full access to all museum galleries. Events are scheduled between 6:00 pm and 11:30 pm, providing your guests with a private viewing of our world-renowned collections. We encourage you to meet with our professional event coordinator who will give you a full tour of the galleries and work hand-in-hand with you to make your event a memorable success. We currently offer event rentals in the Harvard Museum of Natural History and the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology. We look forward to working with you. View the brochure Harvard Museum of Natural History Hosting an event at the Harvard Museum of Natural History is an opportunity for private groups and organizations to experience the museum at a time when it is not open to the public. Whether entertaining clients and colleagues with an intimate dinner or hosting large galas or weddings, let the museum’s exhibitions provide the perfect backdrop for your event. Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology provides a marvelous setting for an evening event. From towering Native American totem poles and large Maya sculptures to precious artifacts of the ancient world, let the museum form the perfect backdrop for your event while offering a unique educational experience. Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Administrative Offices 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museum of Natural History Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical & Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology Support Us Opportunities HMSC Inclusion Statement Harvard Faculty Resources Contact Us website poll code Help Us Improve Our Website Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement