Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Join Subscribe Resources Rentals Search Visit Programs Support Membership Member Events Donate Volunteer Library Membership Opportunities Exhibitions Education Harvard Students About About HMSC Press Faculty Executive Board Host an Event Opportunities Contact Us HOME / HMSC Connects! rgb_horizontal_no_tag_connects_01.jpg Virtual Programs Enjoy live virtual programming across each of the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture! Virtual Tours Experiences Enjoy curated themed experiences of HMSC Connects! content. These short experiences include themed coloring pages, podcasts, events, digital exhibits, and more! Kids and Families Explore the world beyond your living room with clever activities, HMSC Story Time videos, and visits to other cultures around the world. Extraordinary Things Extraordinary Things features intriguing objects from all four museums and invites you to explore each "extraordinary things" with fun activities and from multiple, and sometimes surprising, perspectives. Podcast This podcast goes behind the scenes of HMSC museums to talk to the scholars, researchers, collection keepers, exhibit designers and other fascinating individuals who keep the museums humming along and create a compelling array of exhibits and programs. Digital Exhibits Coloring Pages Developed directly from photographs and illustrations of museum objects and specimens, these coloring pages provide a window into the breadth and wonder of Harvard’s collections. Explore the detailed images, extend your learning, and add your own artistic perspectives. Online Resources Discover museum-specific online resources including public-lecture videos, 3D models, museum collections, gallery tours, and online exhibits. Social Media Engage with the museums’ social media channels, including the newly launched HMSC Explorers Club. Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Administrative Offices 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museum of Natural History Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical & Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology Support Us Opportunities HMSC Inclusion Statement Harvard Faculty Resources Contact Us website poll code Help Us Improve Our Website Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement