Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Join Subscribe Resources Rentals Search Visit Programs Support Membership Member Events Donate Volunteer Library Membership Opportunities Exhibitions Education Harvard Students About About HMSC Press Faculty Executive Board Host an Event Opportunities Contact Us HOME / Opportunities The Harvard Museums of Science & Culture (HMSC) is a partnership of four museums on Harvard’s Cambridge campus. Established in 2012, HMSC provides public access to some of the most significant collections anywhere in the world, representing the wonders of the planet and the customs and ingenuity of civilization across time. Museums: Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Harvard Museum of Natural History Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology HMSC employees work with Harvard faculty, museum curators, and students to provide interdisciplinary exhibitions, events, lectures, and educational programs for the Harvard community and for the general public. Search Job Openings HMSC works with Harvard Human Resources to manage the hiring process for most positions. You can search openings across Harvard using Harvard Careers. Visitor Services Representative Volunteer Opportunities HMSC volunteers play a critical role in supporting museum visitors and public events. The museums welcome people with various language skills, interests, and levels of education to apply as volunteers. The minimum age for acceptance into the volunteer program is 16. Learn more about volunteer opportunities. Student Opportunities HMSC selects interns, hires student employees, and appoints a Harvard student advisory board each year. Students with an interest in museums or in obtaining hands-on experience are encouraged to contact the appropriate staff member when positions are available. Visitor Service Attendant Internships There are no internships available at this time. Students aged 16 and over are always welcome to apply to HMSC’s volunteer program. Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Administrative Offices 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museum of Natural History Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical & Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology Support Us Opportunities HMSC Inclusion Statement Harvard Faculty Resources Contact Us website poll code Help Us Improve Our Website Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement