Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Join Subscribe Resources Rentals Search Visit Programs Support Membership Member Events Donate Volunteer Library Membership Opportunities Exhibitions Education Harvard Students About About HMSC Press Faculty Executive Board Host an Event Opportunities Contact Us HOME / For Harvard Students The Harvard Museums of Science & Culture (HMSC) is a partnership of four Harvard museums designed to coordinate captivating programming for all ages, permanent galleries, and dynamic rotating exhibits. The HMSC invites you to explore Harvard University's distinctive collections and vital research on human civilizations, biodiversity, and the history of Earth and science. Your Museums The HMSC partnership consists of the Harvard Museum of Natural History, the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology, the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments, and the Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East. Internships & Opportunities HMSC welcomes enthusiastic students with various language skills, interests, to apply as interns, volunteers and employees at the Harvard Museum of Natural History, the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology, and the Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East. Apply for the Science Education Partners program. HMSC Student Board Members of the HMSC Student Board are a select group of undergraduates who partner with the museum to explore student needs, ideas and initiatives. The HMSC Board will generate engagement opportunities at the museums and enhance the impact on the student experience at Harvard. Harvard Student Events HMSC offers a wide range of programs specifically designed for Harvard Students. These programs include private lunches, special lectures, behind-the-scenes tours and much more. Host an Event HMSC offers unique venues for a variety of student occasions. Events are scheduled between 6:00 pm and 11:30 pm, providing your guests with a private viewing of our world-renowned collections. Special pricing for Harvard Students is available. Student E-News Sign Up Sign up to get our monthly Harvard Student E-News. This mailing is written by Harvard Students for Harvard Students and contains the latest events, updates, and behind-the-scenes news delivered right to your inbox. Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Administrative Offices 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museum of Natural History Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical & Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology Support Us Opportunities HMSC Inclusion Statement Harvard Faculty Resources Contact Us website poll code Help Us Improve Our Website Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement