Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Join Subscribe Resources Rentals Search Visit Programs Support Membership Member Events Donate Volunteer Library Membership Opportunities Exhibitions Education Harvard Students About About HMSC Press Faculty Executive Board Host an Event Opportunities Contact Us HOME / Visit glassflowermaskslide.jpg KNOW BEFORE YOU GO Individual reservations are no longer required to visit. Although we have implemented enhanced health and safety measures, we cannot guarantee that any visitor will not contract COVID-19 during their visit. A risk of exposure to COVID-19 exists in any public setting. To support our efforts to provide a safe experience for staff and visitors, we kindly ask that you review the follow information: Do you have symptoms?: On the day of your visit, we ask that you and members of your group not enter the building if you are unwell, are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, or are in isolation or quarantine due to exposure to COVID as defined by the state of Massachusetts. Masks Recommended: We recommend all visitors aged 2 or older wear a mask indoors. Masks should fit securely over your nose, mouth, and chin. We suggest the use of surgical-style, cup-style, or double-layer cloth masks as an effective means of protection. Accommodations: To request an accommodation based on a medical condition or disability, please email us prior to your visit. Guidelines: Abide by the guidelines on the HMSC museum websites and by all instructions posted in the museums or provided by staff during the visit. If a visitor fails to follow the museums’ guidelines and instructions, they may be denied entry or required to leave the premises. Museum Information: Make the most of your visit to any of our four museums with up-to-date hours, admission fees, parking, and more. We look forward to your visit to the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture! Museum Visit Information Harvard Museum of Natural History Hours Open daily from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm General Admission Adults: $15.00 Seniors (65+): $13.00 Harvard ID Holders: Free Non-Harvard students with I.D.: $10.00 Youth ages 3–18: $10.00 Youth under 3: Free Free for members For directions, parking, and accessibility information, read Plan Your Visit. Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Hours Open daily from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm General Admission Adults: $15.00 Seniors (65+): $13.00 Harvard ID Holders: Free Non-Harvard students with I.D.: $10.00 Youth ages 3–18: $10.00 Youth under 3: Free Free for members For directions, parking, and accessibility information, read Visit. Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Hours Sunday–Friday from 11:00 am to 4:00 pm General Admission Free For directions, parking, and accessibility information, read Visit. Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Hours Sunday–Friday from 11:00 am to 4:00 pm General Admission Free For directions, parking, and accessibility information, read Visit Us. Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Administrative Offices 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museum of Natural History Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical & Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology Support Us Opportunities HMSC Inclusion Statement Harvard Faculty Resources Contact Us website poll code Help Us Improve Our Website Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement