Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Hatfield Marine Science Center Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Research Academics Facilities Visit Hatfield University Students Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Research Academics Facilities Visit Hatfield Scholarships Join us for the 27th Annual Markham Symposium big_kelsey_small.png WHEN: Thursday, June 16, 2:00 - 5:30 PM WHERE: Gladys Valley Marine Studies Building Auditorium, HMSC campus, Newport PROGRAM AGENDA: Plenary talk by Dr. Elizabeth Perotti, Education & Outreach Coordinator, NOAA Ocean Acidification Program A poster session and presentations by student scholarship awardees To watch this event online Zoom meeting link: https://oregonstate.zoom.us/j/96716173843?pwd=VGVTemNQdmR3TWluM3VoRnZObGlKdz09 Password: 086075 Phone Dial-In Information +1 971 247 1195 US (Portland) Meeting ID: 967 1617 3843 FUNDING AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT @ HATFIELD Every year, nearly $100K is awarded to bright, engaging, and hopeful undergraduate and graduate students to participate in research experiences, teach experiential courses and reach out to the public about the relevance of their science. Hatfield’s donors continue to recognize and support students’ needs for research and lab experience that directly relate to their career interests in marine science. These research awards provide students with real-world training opportunities in writing research proposals and reports, managing a research budget, and communicating their research findings at the Annual Markham Symposium. This year the Symposium will be held on June 16. We thank our many donors for recognizing and invigorating our student researchers at Hatfield. For further information on scholarships, fellowships and awards contact Melissa Rieth. IMPORTANT AWARD DATES 2022 Award Extension Request Due April 1 Award Assistance Drop-in Session March 30, 2:00-3:30 pm April 4, 10:00-11:30 am April 5, 3:30-5:00 pm April 8, 9:00 am-5:00 pm (in-person assistance is also available on April 8 in Ed Wing #3) Award Applications Due* April 8 by 11:45 PM Annual & Final Reports Due May 31 Annual Markham Symposium June 16 - SAVE THE DATE *Housing and HSO awards have different dates. Please see the sections below for more details. UNDERGRADUATE SCHOLARSHIPS Roundhouse Foundation Marine Studies Program Innovation Lab Scholarship and Internship Fund This scholarship supports OSU undergraduate students interested in developing the programs and operation of the Innovation Lab at the Hatfield Marine Science Center in Newport, OR. There will be three awards of up to $18,640. Awardees will have an OSU student hourly position in Spring, Summer and Fall terms, a summer internship with housing at HMSC, and a scholarship. Visit the Marine Studies Initiative for more info about this award and details about applying. Opens April 1, 2022 and closes May 1, 2022. Holt Marine Education Fund Award (pdf) The Holt Award offers up to $6,000 to support an undergraduate or graduate student to study or complete research. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Joan Crebbin Memorial Fellowship Award (pdf) This award offers up to $3,000 to support an undergraduate or graduate student pursuing marine science-related fields (marine biology, marine mammals and marine education) at OSU. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Maryann Bozza Scholarship (pdf) This award offers up to $2,500 to support an undergraduate or graduate student pursuing hands-on marine studies experiences at the Hatfield Marine Science Center. This award is open to OSU and non-OSU students. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 GRADUATE SCHOLARSHIPS Anja Robinson Fellowship (pdf) Up to $2,000 to support graduate student research in shellfish aquaculture. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Bill Wick Marine Fisheries Award (pdf) This award is for up to $4,000 to support graduate student research in fisheries ecology, food processing, economics or marketing. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Holt Marine Education Fund Award (pdf) The Holt Award offers up to $6,000 to support an undergraduate or graduate student to study or complete research. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Ivan Pratt Memorial Graduate Scholarship (pdf) This award offers up to $2,000 to support a graduate student conducting research related to any marine science discipline associated with the Hatfield Marine Science Center. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Joan Crebbin Memorial Fellowship Award (pdf) This award offers up to $3,000 to support an undergraduate or graduate student pursuing marine science-related fields (marine biology, marine mammals, and marine education) at OSU. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Louis & Maud Hill Coastal Marine Studies Award This award provides up to $12,000 of support to a graduate student in coastal marine studies that include, but are not limited to aquaculture, oceanography, marine biology, and marine engineering. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Lylian Brucefield Reynolds Scholarship (pdf) This award provides up to $3,000 of support to a graduate student's tuition and fees while at the Hatfield Marine Science Center. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Mamie Markham Research Awards (pdf) This fund offers several awards annually, up to $10,000 each, to support graduate student research in marine science at the Hatfield Marine Science Center. This award is open to OSU and non-OSU students. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Maryann Bozza Scholarship (pdf) This award offers up to $2,500 to support an undergraduate or graduate student pursuing hands-on marine studies experiences at the Hatfield Marine Science Center. This award is open to OSU and non-OSU students. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife Marine Reserve Graduate Student Scholarships (pdf) This award provides up to $1,000 of support to a current graduate student at any Oregon college/university pursuing research that does one of the following: 1. Informs the management of marine reserves into nearshore waters 2. Informs our understanding of nearshore communities in Oregon’s waters 3. Informs how nearshore communities in Oregon will respond to environmental change (i.e., hypoxia, ocean acidification, increasing sea surface temperatures). Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Walter G. Jones Fisheries Development Award (pdf) Funding for $1,300 is given to support an academically qualified graduate student pursuing research that contributes to fisheries development. Application deadline: April 8, 2022 Housing SCHOLARSHIPS Cecil and Martha MacGregor Scholarship in Marine Science This scholarship is given to multiple students. Each award of $250 goes to cover housing expenses for undergraduate OSU students taking coursework during summer and in residence at HMSC. This award will be administered through OSU ScholarDollars. The award application will be available by April 10. Application deadline: May 15, 2022 HATFIELD STUDENT ORGANIZATION SCHOLARSHIPS Bob Moch Memorial Endowment Award The HsO Bob Moch Memorial Endowment will award up to $1,000 annually to a nominated student who exemplifies the following values: • Being a positive example and ambassador for HMSC in our local community; • Scholarship, citizenship, and fellowship which reflects positively on fellow students; • Being an active member in the coastal community outside of HMSC; and • Conducting and promoting activities such as sharing, caring, and educational endeavors for the betterment of the community, and not for personal gain. HSO Travel/Conference Fee Award Hatfield Student Organization (HsO) encourages students to present their research findings at professional conferences related to their field of study. To support student participation in such conferences, HsO, has created an annual award of $400 to help finance a student’s travel and conference fees. Application deadlines: November 15 and May 15. HsO Travel Awards This $400 award is given to students in residence (least halftime) at HMSC, in recognition of service to the HsO, research excellence and promise. Funding for these travel awards comes from HsO fundraising, with matching funds from the OSU Foundation. Winners are assisted in presenting their research at local, regional or national scientific conferences. Additionally, they present their research at a weekly Hatfield Symposium the following year, as well as continuing to perform service to HMSC. There are two deadlines per year: May 15 and November 15. HsO Research Award The HsO Research award provides financial support to cover small research expenses such as supplies, equipment, analysis, publishing costs, etc. to HsO members. Criteria will be based on service to HsO, impact on research activities and education, soundness of proposed budget, and financial need. Funding for this annual grant comes from HsO fundraising ‹ Precollege Programs up Tour Video › Contact Info Hatfield Marine Science Center 2030 SE Marine Science Drive Newport, OR 97365 Phone: 541-867-0100 Contact Us Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Hatfield Campus Partners: Strength in Collaboration usda_logo_square.png odfw_logo_white_square.png noaa_logo.png epa_logo.png usfish_wildlife_logo.png