Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Hatfield Marine Science Center Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Research Academics Facilities Visit Hatfield University Students Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Research Academics Facilities Visit Hatfield Undergrad Scholarships and Internships Every year, nearly $100K is awarded to bright, engaging and hopeful undergraduate and graduate students to participate in research experiences, teach experiential courses and reach out to the public about the relevance of their science. Hatfield’s donors continue to recognize and support students’ needs for research and lab experience that directly relate to their career interests in marine science. These research awards provide students with real-world training opportunities in writing research proposals and reports, managing a research budget, and communicating their research findings at the Annual Markham Symposium in October. We thank our many donors for recognizing and invigorating our student researchers at Hatfield. For further information on scholarships, fellowships and awards, contact Itchung Cheung. Undergraduate Scholarships undergraduate-awards-1300x550.jpg Cecil and Martha MacGregor Scholarship in Marine Science This scholarship is given to up to four students. Each award of $250 goes to cover housing expenses for undergraduate OSU student(s) taking coursework during summer and in residence at Hatfield. Application deadline: June 15. Holt Marine Education Fund Award The Holt Award offers up to $6,000 to support an undergraduate or graduate student project whose outcomes benefit marine education. Application deadline: May 4. Undergrad Internships The Hatfield Marine Science Center offers a broad range of internships through a variety of programs, departments, and agencies affiliated with the center. Opportunities exist for graduates, undergraduates, and community college students. Potential research areas include collection and analysis of fish/zooplankton; marine predator/prey studies; Pacific halibut ecology/behavior studies; physical oceanography; science education and informal learning; and science communication and outreach. OSU Hatfield Internship Opportunities Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) - 2020 REU Symposium Schedule Marine Studies Initiative Undergraduate Internships - 2020 MSI Symposium Schedule Undergraduate Research, Scholarship, and the Arts (URSA) Additional Internship Opportunities Oregon Sea Grant Summer Scholars Program for Undergraduates NOAA Ernest F. Hollings Undergraduate Scholarship Program NOAA National Marine Fisheries/Alaska Fisheries Science Center Volunteer Opportunities Hatfield Marine Science Center Visitor Center Volunteer Program Hatfield Marine Science Center's Marine Science Day Citizen Science Programs Oregon Marine Reserves Partnership Oregon Coast Aquarium Volunteer Program Midcoast Watersheds Council Oregon Shores Coast Watch Program Surfrider Foundation Newport Chapter Contact HMSC Academic Programs directly for more opportunities Contact Info Hatfield Marine Science Center 2030 SE Marine Science Drive Newport, OR 97365 Phone: 541-867-0100 Contact Us Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Hatfield Campus Partners: Strength in Collaboration usda_logo_square.png odfw_logo_white_square.png noaa_logo.png epa_logo.png usfish_wildlife_logo.png