The University of Texas at Austin Who We Are Vision, Mission and Values Team National Advisory Council Racial Justice Declaration Hogg History Employment Contact Us What We Do Engagement Report 2021 Shared Inquiry Community Implementation Policy Engagement Success Stories Funding Opportunities Awarded Grants Funding Strategy Grantseeker and Grantee Resources Events and Networks Austin Area African American Behavioral Health Network Austin Latinx Chicanx Behavioral Health Network Robert Lee Sutherland Seminar Young Minds Matter News and Resources LGBTQ+ Mental Health Resources Blog Podcast Publications Video Media Newsroom Resources for Mental Health and COVID-19 Select Page Improving Mental Health in Everyday Life Our Mission and Vision For Uvalde, Sympathy is Not Enough We grieve with the community of Uvalde, Texas and all who are affected by the horrific act of violence at Robb Elementary School yesterday. There are no words that can be expressed for the deaths of young children as well as the trauma, grief and pain being felt by this community of Texans, all of which demands a commensurate response from us. Read Full Statement Transforming Mental Health Through Community The Hogg Foundation envisions a future in which the people of Texas thrive in communities that support mental health and well-being. We believe it’s possible to transform how communities promote mental health in everyday life. We support research and learning, practice and implementation, and policy initiatives to achieve this vision. Strategy and Impact We use a variety of approaches to create systemic change in community-based mental health strategies and practices. Learn More Funding Opportunity We want to highlight writers who are living with or recovering from mental health challenges in this contest. Get Details Success Story We take a look back at our decade of investment in the Mental Health Policy Academy and Policy Fellow Initiative. Download PDFs News and Announcements Get news, insights and ideas related to our initiatives and the state of mental health in Texas. View All Blog Posts For Uvalde, Sympathy is Not Enough The Hogg Foundation for Mental Health grieves with Uvalde and Robb Elementary School. read more Asian Americans Attaining Awareness Hogg Foundation for Mental Health · Episode 132: Asian Americans Attaining Awareness In our Asian Americans Attaining Awareness podcast we're observing May as Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. We’re taking this time of cultural recognition to look at... read more Speak up! featuring Dr. King Davis Now is the time to speak up about mental health! Americans are facing multiple mental health crises, and Texas consistently ranks as one of the worst states in the U.S. for access to mental health care. Each of us plays a critical role in spreading the message that... read more Public Policy Through a variety of policy initiatives, the Hogg Foundation influences systemic change at the state and local level to improve the mental health and well-being of people across Texas. Policy Priorities These policy priorities represent mental health and substance use issues that we believe deserve the attention of policymakers and advocates. Learn More Mental Health Guide Navigating mental health systems and services in Texas can be daunting, even for the most informed advocates and policymakers. Learn More Response to Legislative Interim Charges The foundation Policy unit recently responded to several Requests for Information related to the interim charges. Learn More Podcast Listen to conversations with mental health consumers, practitioners and advocates. Listen Video Watch informative interviews, in-depth features, clips from events and more. Watch News Get mental health news from Texas and beyond delivered directly to your inbox. Subscribe Grantseeker & Grantee Information The Hogg Foundation invests in programs, policy analysis, research and education through grants, scholarships and fellowships to transform how communities promote mental health in everyday life. Funding Opportunities Donate Our mission is to transform how communities promote mental health in everyday life. You have the ability to contribute. Donate Follow Us When you subscribe and follow the Hogg Foundation for Mental Health, through our newsletters or social media channels, you can get mental health news and resources, funding announcements, and more delivered right to your inbox and on your feed. Become a Hogg Insider Get mental health news, listen to podcasts with consumers, advocates and other experts, and receive updates on foundation grants and events. Sign me up Copyright© Hogg Foundation 2022 | 3001 Lake Austin Blvd, Austin, TX 78703 | (512) 471-5041 Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility