arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Society & Culture Quoted Quote Her cult status has a lot to do with her larger-than-life talent, of course, but it’s also the way she was always an outsider. Byline Desirée Garcia, associate professor, Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies | Attribution Chicago Tribune Date 6/01/2022 In the News The Commercialization of Juneteenth Backfires for Big Brands 5/31/2022 Description History professor Matthew Delmont says the new federal Juneteenth holiday is an opportunity to celebrate Black Americans who fought for freedom and equality but notes it is hard not to worry about it being “watered down or distorted.” Logo Image Quoted Quote What they’re trying to do is stop the clock on what counts as ‘canon.’ Byline Bethany Moreton, Professor of History | Attribution Salon Date 5/31/2022 Articles John Cho ’22 Explores Identity in Politics Date 5/31/2022 Body Texas native is considering a career in voting rights law. Image Thumbnail In the News The Southern Baptists Are Having a Come-to-Jesus Moment 5/27/2022 Description In an op-ed, religion professor Randall Balmer outlines the history of the Southern Baptist Convention. “Turns out the Roman Catholic Church has nothing on the Southern Baptists when it comes to covering up sexual misconduct,” he writes. Logo Image Quoted Quote I have allowed the mantra of taking a leap into unknown territory to guide my path—the payoff of perseverance. Byline Shontay Delalue, Senior Vice President and Senior Diversity Officer | Attribution 2022 University of Maine Graduate School Commencement Date 5/27/2022 Quoted Quote She did social justice at scale. How? She taught us all to do the work. Byline Cheryl Bascomb ’82, Vice President for Alumni Relations | Attribution Valley News Date 5/26/2022 Quoted Quote Corporations don’t know how to deal with the intersection of race and gender. Byline Ella Bell Smith, professor of business administration | Attribution USA Today Date 5/25/2022 In the News We Can’t Even Agree on What Is Tearing Us Apart 5/25/2022 Description An op-ed quotes Associate Professor of Government Sean Westwood on the issue of “sorting,” in which voters are drawn to parties that best capture their views and makes them more cohesive, but can also move them toward more extreme positions. Logo Image Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube