arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Awards Articles William Cheng Named a Radcliffe Fellow Date 5/24/2022 Body The professor of music will spend a year in residence at Harvard’s Radcliffe Institute. Image Thumbnail Articles Making Complex Physics Pop On Screen Date 5/20/2022 Body Computer scientist Bo Zhu wins NSF funding for his work in fluid animation. Image Thumbnail Articles Fulbright and DAAD Grant Recipients Announced Date 5/19/2022 Body The 13 award winners will teach, study, or conduct research around the globe. Image Thumbnail Articles Two Students Chosen for Native American Internship Program Date 5/17/2022 Body Interns gain practical experience with the legislative process in Washington. Image Thumbnail Articles Idia Ihensekhien ’21 Wins Premier Rugby Award Date 5/10/2022 Body The MA Sorensen Award is given to the top women’s rugby player in the country. Image Thumbnail Athletics Articles Barry Prize Honors ‘Dedication to the Academic Vocation’ Date 5/02/2022 Body The scholarships will allow two Dartmouth students to study theology at Oxford. Image Thumbnail Articles Kudos: Swayne Is In Residence at the Library of Congress Date 4/27/2022 Body Dartmouth faculty, students, and staff are recognized for their achievements. Image Thumbnail Articles Ten Research Fellowships Go to Students and Alumni Date 4/14/2022 Body The National Science Foundation program supports graduate students in STEM fields. Image Thumbnail Articles Social Justice Award Winners Announced Date 4/12/2022 Body Martin Luther King III to deliver keynote speech at the awards ceremony in May. Image Thumbnail Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube