arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Academics Research, Scholarship & Creativity Undergrad Research Image Ross Virginia, the Myers Family Professor of Environmental Science, and Reyn Hutton ’21 study Arctic tundra ecosystems in Greenland. (Photo by Robert Gill) Subtitle Students not only learn from top researchers, they also work alongside them, expanding their understanding of the world and making it a better place. Our faculty, along with students, seek answers to pressing questions about climate change, cancer immunotherapy, social justice, and cybersecurity, among many other issues central to our time. The collaborative, high-impact solution of real-world problems is integral to our teacher-scholar model, enabling students’ hands-on engagement in the joys and challenges of discovery and creation. Fact / Stat #1 Text Our rank in the Ivy League according to the Nature Innovation Index for the long-term, real-world impact of our scholarly work. Fact / Stat AAU Text An R1 university, Dartmouth has been a member of the consortium of leading research institutions since 2019. Research News View News In the News VISTA Emerges as a Promising Immunotherapy Target in Cancer Description Professor of Microbiology and Immunology Randolph Noelle is featured in a review about the role of VISTA, V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of T-cell activation, as a promising target in cancer immunotherapy. Logo Image In the News Who Won the U.S.-China Trade War? Description An essay on the 2018-2020 trade war cites a paper co-authored by Tuck associate professor and globalization chair Davin Chor that used satellite imagery of lights in industrial areas of China to show the impact of tariffs. Economics professor Douglas Irwin is also quoted. Logo Image Articles Karen E. Wetterhahn Science Symposium Marks Its 30th Year Body Undergraduates who conduct scientific research present their work and vie for prizes. Image Thumbnail Centers and Institutes Our wide-ranging centers and institutes, hubs for innovation and excellence across the arts and sciences, connect our faculty and students to each other in multidisciplinary ways with real-world impacts. See the complete list Image Hood Museum of Art (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Image Alexander Chee, associate professor of English and creative writing (Photo by Robert Gill) Quote The thing I’m after when I’m researching a piece of fiction is, what were the talismans of a character’s life? What details describe the culture of the time? Attribution Alexander Chee, Associate Professor, English and Creative Writing Read More Image Image “I am thrilled, honored, and humbled to be named the new South House professor,” says Associate Professor Sienna Craig. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Quote For centuries, humanity has tried to figure out ways to explain and address suffering. What I do is to try to understand those cultural and scientific strategies. Attribution Sienna Craig, Associate Professor, Anthropology Read More Image Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Quote Epigenetic ‘rewiring’ of tumor cells heralds a new era, with the promise of next-generation cancer cures. Attribution Steven D. Leach, Director of the Norris Cotton Cancer Center Read More Image Image Quote Light is adding more bandwidth for communications than the radio spectrum. I see the lights around us as wireless transmitters talking to all our devices. Attribution Xia Zhou, Associate Professor, Computer Science Read More Left Right 1 4 Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Image Caption Elizabeth Pereira, a research scientist, and Amelia Ralowicz, a doctoral student in the Program in Experimental and Molecular Medicine, at the Hill Lab. (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Caption The Stretch 2018: The Earth Sciences Department has offered an off-campus field program, also known as the “Stretch,” since the mid-1960s. The Stretch is thus among the most storied and longest-lived off-campus programs at Dartmouth. (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Caption Cameron Planck, Thayer ’20, in his Cryosphere Innovation Lab in West Lebanon, New Hampshire. (Photo by Robert Gill) Left right Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube