arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Admissions Be Extraordinary Here APPLY NOW Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Dartmouth has been educating leaders since 1769. Our undergraduate and graduate programs are marked by personal attention from top faculty and opportunities to participate in multidisciplinary research in an inclusive community. We read every single application carefully, looking for strong-minded, multi-talented people eager to live and learn together with mutual respect for each other’s differences. See Undergraduate Frequently Asked Questions or email us at: admissions.reply@dartmouth.edu. Fact / Stat 6,500 Text Estimated number of students enrolled in undergraduate and graduate programs Fact / Stat $60K Text Average financial aid for Class of 2024 Undergraduate Admissions Choosing Dartmouth will be a life-changing decision. We’ll support you every step of the way. International Students Geisel School of Medicine We educate the complete physician—one who excels in the basic sciences, delivers outstanding clinical care, discovers and shares new knowledge, and works to improve systems of health care delivery. Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Embedded in a wide range of disciplines and departments across campus, our graduate programs spark intellectual discovery at the most advanced levels of study. Thayer School of Engineering With an emphasis on beneficial design, we prepare the next generation of leaders to solve problems through thinking, research, and innovation. Tuck School of Business In a thoroughly modern learning environment, we develop wise, decisive leaders who better the world through business. Image Image Image The Search A podcast hosted by Vice Provost for Enrollment Lee Coffin debunks myths and offers tips about how to get into—and afford—the college that is right for you. Soundcloud See all episodes Image Image Quote Dartmouth’s high regard in academics and research was one reason I chose it. The on-campus boathouse and being located in a quintessential college town were also major draws for me. Attribution Caitlin Lynch ’22 Image Image Quote Philosophy demands that we think about our assumptions. What I learned has helped me in business, sports, and life. Attribution Brad Carney ’20 | Kokomo Perspective Image Image Quote I felt like my truest self at Dartmouth. I really just needed to write at Baker Library for 12 hours a day. Attribution Rembert Browne ’09 | 3D Magazine Left Right 1 3 Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Image Degree Finder Find your passion here. Browse the undergraduate majors and graduate programs of study available at Dartmouth. Image Financial Aid We strive to make the full experience of a Dartmouth education affordable for you and your family, for all four years. Image 3D Magazine 3D is Dartmouth’s undergraduate admissions magazine. Take a look inside for stories about Dartmouth’s faculty and students who learn together in a vibrant community framed by nature. Learn More Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube