arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Admissions Outcomes Learn more Image Caption (Photo by Robert Gill) We prepare leaders to embark upon rewarding careers in the arts and sciences, business, medicine, and engineering. One of the most tight-knit alumni groups on the planet, Dartmouth graduates help one another climb ladders, enter markets, and reach their highest professional and personal objectives. Many graduates go on to careers as scholars and noted researchers. Their rates of admission to law and medical schools is consistently well above the national average. They also compete successfully for the most prestigious scholarships and fellowships—Rhodes , Marshall , Truman , Udall , Goldwater , Fulbright, Knight-Hennessy, and dozens more. Fact / Stat 96% Text Earn their undergraduate degree within six years of enrollment Fact / Stat 200+ Text Employers recruit directly at Dartmouth Image Image Quote I’ve always loved to learn. That’s something you need to succeed at Dartmouth, and that quality grew stronger while I was there. Attribution Bianca Smith ’12, First Black female coach in professional baseball history Image Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Quote ... if you want it to happen, friendships formed here can last for the rest of your lives. Attribution Jake Tapper ’91, journalist, author, and anchor of CNN’s weekday news program, The Lead with Jake Tapper, as well as the host of the network’s Sunday morning show, State of the Union Image Image Quote At other schools you could maybe use the machines in your senior year. But at Dartmouth I could use the [Thayer School Machine] shop as a freshman, so I thought this was better suited to me. Attribution William Kamkwamba ’14, author of ‘The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind’ Image Image Quote ... the liberal arts experience—taking courses in economics, chemistry, acting, music—expanded my understanding of context and gave me the confidence to believe there wasn’t anything I couldn’t figure out. Attribution Geeta Anand ’89, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, worked for ‘The New York Times’ and the ‘Wall Street Journal’ in India, current dean of the University of California at Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism Image Image Quote I never would have thought that Dartmouth would be interested in a student like me, but when Dartmouth considers a person, it considers the whole person. Attribution Vitallia Williams ’22, Army veteran Left Right 1 5 Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Go to slide 5 More About Alumni Outcomes Image Alumni Relations Our graduates maintain a robust relationship with their alma mater. Alumni devote an extraordinary amount of time and talent to the institution, and are eager to engage with current students. Image Career Network Thousands of Dartmouth alumni have joined the Dartmouth Career Network to share information and advice with students and fellow alumni regarding graduate study and career paths. Image Dartmouth Alumni Magazine The editorially independent publication brings timely and lively news, features, and a discussion forum to more than 59,000 alumni six times a year. Image Dartmouth Next A virtual forum of big ideas—developed to bring the best of Dartmouth to our global community. Explore contemporary issues and engage in conversations around the world’s great challenges. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube