arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar More news Photos Views From the Green: Sailing Through Spring News subtitle From Lei Day to Barn Babies, May has a powerful pull. 5/25/2022 Share thisFacebookTwitterEmail Students raced around Mascoma Lake on sailboats, assembled leis, cuddled with little critters, and celebrated Pride 2022 as a wide range of activities complemented spring term classes. Photos Image John Ejiogu ’23 sings ‘Man in the Mirror’ as part of the Gospel Choir performance in the Hop’s Alumni Hall. (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Image Jelisa Grant ’13 and Stephanie Goldsmith perform ‘That’s Life’ during Dartmouth Idol. (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Image Falen Demsas, Geisel ’22, center, and Paula Lara Mejia, Geisel ’25, and Angie Lee ’17, Geisel ’22, thank Dartmouth Dining employees, from left, Gordon Wright, Jon Plodzik, Ronald Moore, and Brandon Crosby as part of a broader effort to thank employees for supporting Dartmouth and their education. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image From left, Angie Lee ’17, Geisel ’22, Paula Lara Mejia, Geisel ’25, and Falen Demsas, Geisel ’22, take coffee mugs to Dartmouth employees to thank them for supporting their education. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Image Adore Delano, who appeared in “RuPaul’s Drag Race” TV series, performs at the Transform drag show as part of Pride 2022. (Photo by Ryan McCann ’22) Image Kevin Donohoe ’21, left, and Francis Miller clean a gravestone as part of a group of volunteers working on restoration in the Dartmouth cemetery. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image Members of Dartmouth’s sailing team practice their racing tactics on Mascoma Lake last week. (Photo by Chris Johnson) Image Students gathered in the Hood Museum and created leis for Lei Day, a Hawaiian holiday in early May that was established more than 90 years ago to celebrate Hawaii’s compassionate culture. (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Image A kitten and a bunny rabbit bring out the smiles at Barn Babies at the Hitchcock Tent. (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Image The Pride flag hanging at Collis helps celebrate Pride 2022 on campus. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Categories Campus Events Tags Sense of Place Students Videos Looking Back at Spring Term 2022 6/01/2022 Description A mix of new spaces and familiar places, plus some good sunshine, marked the season. Video Thumbnail Articles John Cho ’22 Explores Identity in Politics Date 5/31/2022 Body Texas native is considering a career in voting rights law. Image Thumbnail Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube