arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Campus Life Diversity & Inclusion Image Many cultures, one community. At Dartmouth, differences are embraced and ideas are challenged. Our diverse community of students, faculty, and staff come together to share perspectives, learn, and grow. Office of Institutional Diversity & Equity The Office of Institutional Diversity & Equity (IDE) creates partnerships with offices and individuals across the institution to provide resources that promote access, respect, and community for all. Faculty of Arts and Sciences: Building a Culture of Inclusivity A diverse and inclusive intellectual community is critical to exceptional education, scholarly innovation, and human creativity. Geisel: Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement (DICE) We are responsible for developing, implementing, and overseeing diversity programs and executing our mission of promoting unity and respect within its community. DICE serves as an advisor to underrepresented students and student groups and works to support and ensure the success and retention of all minority students, faculty, and staff. Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies: Diversity Initiatives We believe that diversity is not only the inclusion of underrepresented groups (African American, Native American, Hispanic, Pacific Islanders, women, people of different ages and abilities, as well as first generation college graduates) in our student population, but, the practice of recruiting and retaining: supporting and acknowledging the differences and the commonalities of ourselves and the students from many countries from around the world that we serve. Thayer: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) We are committed to building a welcoming and inclusive place to learn, live, and work, and we strive to incorporate diverse perspectives, experiences, and inquiry in our classrooms, labs, and offices. Tuck: Diversity and Inclusion Students, faculty, and staff bring a wide range of experiences and perspectives to Tuck’s collaborative community. This is a community that thrives when its members feel engaged with each other, with their work, and with the broader world. Tuck’s commitment to diversity applies to the curriculum and to our educational approach. Our collective global mindset means that we value differences, encourage empathy towards the ideas and experiences of others, and educate leaders to successfully navigate the workforce of tomorrow while operating across different cultures, economies, and markets. Image Image Quote How do (people) have a sense of belonging? How do we ensure that their voice is heard, that they feel empowered, and that they feel a valued member of our community? Attribution Shontay Delalue, Senior Vice President and Senior Diversity Officer Image Image Alexi Abramson (Photo by Robert Gill) Quote Our goal is to build a community that reflects the rich diversity of the global workforce, and create a culture in which our individual identities are valued and treated with respect. Attribution Alexis Abramson, Dean of the Thayer School of Engineering Left Right 1 2 Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube