arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar News Media Filming and Photography on the Dartmouth Campus Campus Access Policy for News Media Dartmouth College welcomes visitors to its scenic New Hampshire campus. We are a private institution, and most of our facilities are not open to the public. Dartmouth’s credentialing procedures for news media are intended to facilitate access to campus for those who wish to film or photograph on the campus and to support the free and open expression of ideas while ensuring that such filming or photography does not interfere with the educational, scholarly, or administrative functions of the institution. In order to maintain an environment that is conducive to teaching and learning, we ask all news media who would like access to campus for filming or photography to fill out a Campus Access Request Form and submit it to the Office of Communications to secure permission before visiting. Permission to film or photograph and related arrangements must be made through that office in advance. Please note that commercial filming or photography is not permitted anywhere on campus without permission. (No permit is required for student and faculty academic projects.) For more information on commercial filming or photography, please contact the Conferences and Events Office directly at 603-646-2923 or conferences.and.events@dartmouth.edu. The use of unmanned aircraft systems (drones) is governed by the Division of Student Affairs. For more information on operating a drone on campus, read the campus policy. Anyone is free to photograph, film, or interview on public sidewalks, and on the College Green in accordance with the Dartmouth policy on the use of the College Green. News media will be granted access to Dartmouth’s campus subject to the following conditions: Access to buildings, areas and events may be denied during an emergency, crisis or unusual contingency, as determined in the College’s sole discretion. Persons present on campus who are not the subject of the shoot may not be photographed in such a way as to render them identifiable unless a release is obtained by the film/photography crew for the use of the individual’s name and/or likeness. The Office of Communications reserves the right to restrict or deny the use of campus locations if, in our judgment, such use would interfere with the educational, scholarly or administrative functions of the institution. News media must submit a Campus Access Request Form to the Office of Communications in advance of the date on which access is requested, which includes an acknowledgment noting their understanding of, and agreement to, these conditions. For more information, please contact the Office of Communications at 603-646-3661 or communications@dartmouth.edu. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube