arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Academics Majors and Minors Define yourself. As a sophomore at Dartmouth, you’ll declare a major in an academic program that excites you intellectually. You can combine any of more than 60 majors with your pick of minors; fine-tune a major by adding studies from other departments and programs; or design a special major around your particular passion. Art & Performing Arts Art History Film and Media Studies Music Studio Art Theater Engineering Engineering Sciences Biomedical Engineering Sciences Engineering Physics Human-Centered Design Materials Science Bachelor of Engineering Humanities Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Classics English French and Italian German Studies Philosophy Religion Russian Spanish and Portuguese Interdisciplinary African and African American Studies Middle Eastern Studies Comparative Literature Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Linguistics Native American Studies Quantitative Social Science Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Physical & Life Sciences Biological Sciences Chemistry Climate Science Computer Science Earth Science Environmental Studies Mathematics Physics and Astronomy Social Sciences Anthropology Economics Education Geography Government History Psychological and Brain Sciences Neuroscience Sociology The Major With or without a minor in another field, most majors call for between eight and 10 courses and a culminating project. Degree Finder Browse all undergraduate majors offered at Dartmouth. Modified major A modified major combines work in two subjects with emphasis on one—such as “economics modified with history”—to create a unified, coherent program of study. Multiple majors Students have the option to complete the requirements for two—or even three—distinct majors. Special major Special majors are student-designed programs of study involving two or more departments or programs and one to three terms of independent study or research. Minors When you add a minor to your academic portfolio, the options to tailor your studies to your interests are nearly limitless. Plan your major A concise guide to constructing and planning your Dartmouth program of study, provided by the Undergraduate Deans Office. Courses and Calendars Set your schedule. Dartmouth offers more than 2,100 undergraduate courses in the liberal arts. Image Image Image Caption With the start of winter term classes on Jan. 6, Dartmouth Library’s Baker-Berry Library is a busy place again. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image Caption JANUARY: The quiet strength of the quotidian. Things don’t have to be action packed or amazing to be perfect, poignant, and beautiful. Pictured: Camille Landon ’21, Lauren Ross ’23, Zoe Danton ’22, in Collis. — Robert Gill Image Caption Dartmouth students take advantage of same-day registration before voting in Hanover on primary day. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image Image Image Left right Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube