arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar More news Videos Looking Back at Spring Term 2022 News subtitle A mix of new spaces and familiar places, plus some good sunshine, marked the season. Video (Video by Chris Johnson) 6/01/2022 The opening of the Class of 1982 Engineering and Computer Science Center and the Arthur L. Irving Institute for Energy and Society were among the highlights of the term, as students found new places to learn, collaborate, or just hang out. But there were also plenty of traditional favorites, ranging from the Green to the Collis patio, to be with friends or do some last-minute reading. And celebrations such as Lūʻau and field work for Digging Dartmouth also were part of what helped campus pop this spring. Written by Office of Communications Share thisFacebookTwitterEmail Categories Campus Tags Video Students Arthur L. Irving Institute for Energy and Society Engineering and Computer Science Center Articles John Cho ’22 Explores Identity in Politics Date 5/31/2022 Body Texas native is considering a career in voting rights law. Image Thumbnail Articles Kudos: Mock Trial Society Makes the Case Date 5/27/2022 Body Dartmouth faculty, students, and staff are recognized for their achievements. Image Thumbnail Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube