arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar More news Articles Alumni Gifts to Support Innovation in Cancer Prevention, Treatment News subtitle Donors gave $1.4 million to launch the Dartmouth Innovations Accelerator for Cancer. Image Image Photo by Eli Burakian ’00 9/28/2020 Body Five alumni and health care investors have committed a total of $1.4 million in gifts to launch the Dartmouth Innovations Accelerator for Cancer. This new initiative will give Dartmouth cancer researchers the support and entrepreneurial guidance needed to bring innovations to the marketplace for the benefit of cancer patients, and provide Dartmouth students with learning opportunities in biomedical entrepreneurship. “The best, most efficient way for us to bring Dartmouth’s biomedical discoveries to cancer patients around the world is through entrepreneurship,” says Steven Leach, the Preston T. and Virginia R. Kelsey Professor at the Geisel School of Medicine and director of Norris Cotton Cancer Center, which is jointly operated by Geisel and Dartmouth-Hitchcock. A core component of Dartmouth’s The Call to Lead campaign, the Cancer Center aims to transform cancer care on a global scale through next-generation immunotherapy, precision prevention, entrepreneurship, and educating future leaders. Image Steven Leach is the Preston T. and Virginia R. Kelsey Professor at the Geisel School of Medicine and director of Norris Cotton Cancer Center. (Photo by Rob Strong ’04) “We are grateful to these visionary alumni who have given of their time, expertise, and philanthropy to help us launch this effort,” says Leach. “Philanthropy can literally accelerate the development of new therapies and diagnostic tools—shaving off years from the pre-clinical and clinical trials timeline.” A joint initiative of the Cancer Center, Geisel, and Dartmouth’s Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship, the Accelerator has a goal of raising $15 million in philanthropy by 2022 and is a major priority within The Call to Lead. With this first round of support, the Accelerator will be launched this fall and will sponsor its first projects this academic year. Biomedical research teams will pitch their ideas to a panel of local and national biotech leaders and venture capital investors who will select the most commercially promising projects that address unmet needs. “Much like the best companies my firm invests in, Geisel and the Cancer Center are deeply committed organizations with a really clear sense of shared purpose, and that’s exciting,” says Todd Sisitsky ’93, chair of the Geisel Board of Advisors and managing partner at the investment firm TPG Global, where he has overseen healthcare investments of more than $12 billion. Sisitsky is one of five alumni leaders who have stepped forward to launch this effort with their personal philanthropy. He is joined by fellow alumni and healthcare investors Hoyoung Huh ’91, founder of Healthcare & Humanity Foundation; Ross Jaffe ’80, co-founder and managing director of Versant Ventures; Stephen Bloch ’84, CEO of EvolveImmune Therapeutics and general partner of Canaan Partners; and Steven Rodgers ’93, head of healthcare investing for Morgan Stanley Capital Partners. This team is building a network of alumni leaders and donors who will support the Accelerator through their professional engagement and personal philanthropy. The Accelerator builds on three decades of entrepreneurial successes and innovations coming out of the Cancer Center. The oldest and most successful Cancer Center spinoff is Medarex, which developed the first approved immunotherapies for cancer and was purchased by Bristol Myers Squibb for a record price in 2009. Royalties from the sale of Medarex benefit Dartmouth researchers today in the form of grants supporting early-phase, highly innovative research at Geisel. Fourteen start-ups have their roots in the Cancer Center, many of which received early support in the form of pilot grants funded by donations from individual donors, foundations, and The Prouty—the Cancer Center’s signature community fundraising event. “We are launching the Accelerator through philanthropy. But our goal is to work toward a model where the Accelerator will eventually support itself as proceeds from these innovations flow back to the institution,” says Jamie Coughlin, director of the Magnuson Center. “This is a well-established evergreen approach to investing, and now is the time to build this at Dartmouth.” Written by Office of Communications Share thisFacebookTwitterEmail Categories Science & Health Tags Call to Lead Faculty Geisel School of Medicine Health Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Research Staff In the News An ‘Acoustic Camera’ Shows Joining the Right Band Boosts a Frog’s Sex Appeal 6/01/2022 Description Associate Professor of Biological Sciences Ryan Calsbeek credits departmental colleague Hannah ter Hofstede for telling him about the utility of an acoustic camera, which Calsbeek used to study the mating calls of wood frogs. Logo Image In the News The Commercialization of Juneteenth Backfires for Big Brands 5/31/2022 Description History professor Matthew Delmont says the new federal Juneteenth holiday is an opportunity to celebrate Black Americans who fought for freedom and equality but notes it is hard not to worry about it being “watered down or distorted.” Logo Image Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube