arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Science & Health In the News An ‘Acoustic Camera’ Shows Joining the Right Band Boosts a Frog’s Sex Appeal 6/01/2022 Description Associate Professor of Biological Sciences Ryan Calsbeek credits departmental colleague Hannah ter Hofstede for telling him about the utility of an acoustic camera, which Calsbeek used to study the mating calls of wood frogs. Logo Image In the News New England’s Electricity Transmission System Needs a Makeover 5/26/2022 Description Amro Farid, an associate professor of engineering, is quoted in a story about how the regional grid in New England needs updating to carry more renewable energy from solar, off-shore wind, and other clean-energy projects. Logo Image In the News VISTA Emerges as a Promising Immunotherapy Target in Cancer 5/24/2022 Description Professor of Microbiology and Immunology Randolph Noelle is featured in a review about the role of VISTA, V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of T-cell activation, as a promising target in cancer immunotherapy. Logo Image Quoted Quote If there are enough elements that are similar to what they experienced in the actual event, then it ends up retraumatizing that child. Byline Kay Jankowski, associate professor of psychiatry | Attribution NHPR Date 5/23/2022 Articles Karen E. Wetterhahn Science Symposium Marks Its 30th Year Date 5/23/2022 Body Undergraduates who conduct scientific research present their work and vie for prizes. Image Thumbnail Articles Making Complex Physics Pop On Screen Date 5/20/2022 Body Computer scientist Bo Zhu wins NSF funding for his work in fluid animation. Image Thumbnail Articles Off-Campus Programs Return to a New Normal Date 5/18/2022 Body After two years on COVID hold, study abroad options include a pilot offering in Berlin. Image Thumbnail Quoted Quote A fundamental question is whether there is a characteristic pattern in the pathology of the liver in these patients. Byline Daniel Lucey ’77, MED ’82, clinical professor of medicine | Attribution Fox News Date 5/17/2022 In the News N.H. Firefighters Respond to Second Wildfire in One Week 5/17/2022 Description Justin Mankin, an assistant professor of geography, is cited in a story about two wildfires in the White Mountains and says climate change is increasing temperatures during wildfire season, drying out fuels on the ground, such as leaves. Logo Image Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube