arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Department of Philosophy Articles John Cho ’22 Explores Identity in Politics Date 5/31/2022 Body Texas native is considering a career in voting rights law. Image Thumbnail Articles Three Faculty Members Win 2022 Guggenheim Fellowships Date 4/08/2022 Body César Alvarez, Brendan Nyhan, and Amie Thomasson are among 180 award recipients. Image Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth’s Adina Roskies Explores the Nature of Free Will Date 6/02/2021 Body A new article investigates the link between activity in the brain and human behavior. Image Thumbnail Articles Speaking Up to Give Voice to the Severely Disabled Date 5/10/2021 Body The question of who speaks for patients with traumatic brain injuries when considering medical decisions is the subject of a commentary in... Image Thumbnail Articles Panelists: Broader Lens Needed on Race, Crime, and Justice Date 4/23/2021 Body In a panel discussion April 22, Dartmouth faculty members shared their reactions to the conviction on Tuesday of former police officer Derek... Image Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth Reacts to the Derek Chauvin Trial Verdict Date 4/21/2021 Body The Dartmouth community responded to the news that a Minneapolis jury found former police officer Derek Chauvin guilty on all counts—second... Image Thumbnail Articles Samuel Levey Named Associate Dean for Arts and Humanities Date 4/15/2020 Body Professor of Philosophy Samuel Levey, the current chair of the Department of Philosophy, has been appointed associate dean of the faculty... Image Thumbnail Articles Philosophy Professor on Finding Comfort in Uncomfortable Times Date 3/23/2020 Body Professor of Philosophy Samuel Levey lives on a remote hill in Lyme, N.H. His internet is unstable, and he loses power when the wind blows... Image Thumbnail Videos Brad Carney ’20—From U.S. Army Ranger to Philosophy Major 11/07/2019 Description Carney came to Dartmouth after serving two tours in Iraq. Video Thumbnail Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube