arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar About Leadership Our leaders believe Dartmouth’s impact on the world is extended through interdisciplinary expertise. Faculty teams collaborate at the leading edge of discovery and give students uncommon access to new ideas around the globe through coursework and research opportunities. Download High-resolution Photos Philip J. Hanlon ’77, President Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Philip J. Hanlon ’77 became Dartmouth’s 18th president on June 10, 2013. He is the 10th Dartmouth alumnus to serve as its president. As president, Hanlon has championed academic excellence and encouraged innovation in scholarship and teaching. He has launched initiatives to build interdisciplinary strength around global challenges, expanded opportunities for experiential learning, and initiated new seed funding programs to support cutting-edge research and creative endeavors. He launched the Irving Institute for Energy and Society, established the DEN Innovation and New Venture Incubator (now known as the Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship), and is leading the expansion of the Thayer School of Engineering. He also created the Society of Fellows, an interdisciplinary community of post-doctoral scholars dedicated to the integration of research and teaching. Office of the President David Kotz ’86, Provost Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) David Kotz ’86, the Pat and John Rosenwald Professor in Computer Science, was appointed provost on Jan. 31, 2022. He had served as interim provost since July 2021. He earned his PhD from Duke University in 1991, and his research interests include security and privacy in smart homes, pervasive computing for health care, and wireless networks. As Dartmouth’s chief academic and fiscal officer, the provost reports to the president and is charged with elevating the academic profile of the institution. In consultation with the academic deans, the provost supports and advances teaching and scholarship as well as all student-related programs. Office of the Provost Scott C. Brown, Interim Dean of the College Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Scott C. Brown is the senior officer responsible for undergraduate academic and co-curricular life. As interim dean, he oversees the Student Affairs division, which includes Student Academic Support Services; Residential Life and the house communities; health and wellness; student life; community life programs that provide cultural and spiritual support; and the Center for Professional Development. He has worked for nearly three decades in university student affairs at Northern Arizona University, The College of Wooster, Colgate University, Mount Holyoke College, and at Dartmouth earlier in his career. Brown serves on the president’s and provost’s leadership teams. Dean of the College Elizabeth F. Smith, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Elizabeth Smith, the Paul M. Dauten Jr. Professor of Biological Sciences, has served as dean of the arts and sciences since 2017. She was previously associate dean of the sciences in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, and has also served as chair of the Department of Biological Sciences. As dean of the arts and sciences, Smith oversees 40+ departments and programs and more than 450 faculty members. Smith was a member of the Graduate and Advanced Studies Task Force for the development of the School of Graduate and Advanced Studies and co-chaired the Science Strategy Working Group. Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Alexis R. Abramson, Dean of Thayer School of Engineering Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Alexis Abramson is the 13th dean of Thayer School. Prior to joining Dartmouth, she was the Milton and Tamar Maltz Professor of Energy Innovation at Case Western Reserve University and served as a director of the university’s Great Lakes Energy Institute focused on creating sustainable energy technology solutions. During the Obama administration, Abramson served as chief scientist and manager of the Emerging Technologies Division at the U.S. Department of Energy’s Building Technologies Program. In 2018, she served as technical adviser for Breakthrough Energy Ventures, a $1 billion effort launched by Bill Gates to combat human-driven climate change. As a leader in sustainable energy technology and advanced energy research, Abramson has authored more than 60 peer-reviewed publications. Dean of Thayer School of Engineering Duane A. Compton, Dean of the Geisel School of Medicine Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Duane Compton is both dean of the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth and the senior associate dean for research and a professor of biochemistry. He received his PhD from the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston in 1988, and completed his postdoctoral training in the field of cell biology at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Compton joined the faculty in 1993, and is a leader in graduate and medical student education and a distinguished National Institutes of Health-funded researcher. Dean of the Geisel School of Medicine F. Jon Kull ’88, Dean of the Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Image (Photo by Rob Strong ’04) F. Jon Kull, the Rodgers Professor of Chemistry, who uses biophysical techniques to study protein structure and function, was appointed dean of graduate studies in 2012. He oversaw the transition from a graduate program to the creation of the School of Graduate and Advanced Studies in 2016. Two years later, in 2018, the school received a naming gift from former New Jersey congressman and U.S. representative to the United Nations Frank J. Guarini ’46. Dean of the Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Matthew J. Slaughter, Dean of the Tuck School of Business Image (Photo by Laura DeCapua) Matthew J. Slaughter is the Paul Danos Dean of the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, where he is also the Earl C. Daum 1924 Professor of International Business. He is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a life member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, a member of the academic advisory board of the International Tax Policy Forum, and an academic advisor to the McKinsey Global Institute. Dean of the Tuck School of Business Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube