arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar More news Articles A Reorganized Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity News subtitle The goal is a more cohesive approach to diversity, equity, and inclusion on campus. Image Image Senior Diversity Officer Shontay Delalue, Associate VP Chloe Poston, and Assistant VP Kristi Clemens. (Photos by Robert Gill) 9/30/2021 More Reading Meet Shontay Delalue, the Inaugural SVP/Senior Diversity Officer Body The Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity (IDE) has been reorganized into two main areas—equity and compliance, and diversity and inclusion, Senior Vice President and Senior Diversity Officer Shontay Delalue announced this week. The equity and compliance team will address matters related to Title IX—the law that prohibits sex discrimination in federally funded education programs—as well as discrimination and harassment broadly, affirmative action programs, and employee accommodations and appeals related to the Americans With Disabilities Act. The team will be led by Kristi Clemens, who in addition to her role as Title IX coordinator has been named assistant vice president for equity and compliance. Quote I know there is an urgency and excitement to make positive change. Attribution Shontay Delalue, senior vice president and senior diversity officer The diversity and inclusion team will be led by Chloe Poston, who joined the IDE staff in July as associate vice president for strategic initiatives. The team supports the Employee Resource Networks program and other diversity programs, consults with academic and administrative units across campus, and enhances training and professional development opportunities related to diversity, equity, and inclusion. The team will also assist with the development of a comprehensive strategic plan for diversity, building on the existing initiatives—the Campus Climate and Culture Initiative (C3I), Inclusive Excellence, and Moving Dartmouth Forward—that aim to create a more welcoming, inclusive, and equitable learning environment for the Dartmouth community. The goal of the new structure is to allow IDE to begin to develop a cohesive institutional approach to improving diversity, equity, and inclusion on campus, Delalue says. Delalue, who began her role in July, says the commitment of the Dartmouth community to diversity, equity, and inclusion is evident. “I know there is an urgency and excitement to make positive change,” she says. “Many issues organizations face do not develop overnight, and it will take time to address the important matters at hand, but in my short time at Dartmouth I’ve seen that my senior colleagues, the board, faculty, staff, students, and alumni are all passionate about the work we are set to embark on. I am confident we can make progress together.” Written by Office of Communications Share thisFacebookTwitterEmail Tags Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity Campus Climate and Culture Initiative Inclusive Excellence Moving Dartmouth Forward Quoted Quote I have allowed the mantra of taking a leap into unknown territory to guide my path—the payoff of perseverance. Byline Shontay Delalue, Senior Vice President and Senior Diversity Officer | Attribution 2022 University of Maine Graduate School Commencement Date 5/27/2022 Articles Martin Luther King III Issues Call to Action Date 5/23/2022 Body The social justice activist warns that democracy “is very much on the ballot.” Image Thumbnail Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube