arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar The Student Experience Study Abroad and Off-Campus Image From left: Noah B. David ’19, Jaden J. Young ’20, From a spring 2018 Foreign Study Program in Morocco. The program was led by Diederick Vandewalle, a professor of government. (Photo by Robert Gill) The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education provides leadership and direction for a diverse portfolio of programs. Under the D-plan, off-campus study is possible around the globe, throughout the year. We lead the nation in the close involvement of college faculty as mentors, designers, and directors of term-length programs offering both international and domestic off-campus study. 50% Students who study away from campus 30+ International and domestic study programs Image Bangkok, Thailand (Photo by Keoni Ocalvey ’20 ) Off-Campus Programs Dartmouth offers dozens of programs world-wide led by Dartmouth faculty and managed by the Off-Campus Programs Office. Off-Campus Programs Language Study Abroad Language Study Abroad (LSA) and Advanced Language Study Abroad (LSA+) programs take you deep into the culture of the language you are learning—alongside Dartmouth classmates and faculty. Language Study Abroad Foreign Study Programs Foreign Study Programs (FSPs) transform the Dartmouth experience, taking it into the heart and home of a field of study: theater in London, environmental studies in southern Africa, or biology in Costa Rica. Foreign Study Programs Exchange Exchange programs allow you to spend a term enrolled at one of Dartmouth's partner institutions from Seoul to Milan, San Diego to Atlanta. Exchange programs Transfer Terms The transfer term process allows up to four credits from an approved institution that is not part of a Dartmouth-run exchange program to be applied to your Dartmouth degree. Transfer Term Internships & Fellowships From building language skills to working abroad, Dartmouth offers meaningful opportunities for international internships and fellowships. INTERNSHIPS & FELLOWSHIPS Image Ecco Park, The Stretch (Photo by Robert Gill) Image From burning the onions to the many attempts of starting the dish over, we were finally able to “top-off-the-tortilla” the right way. Us learning how to cook reflects our learning experience here in Spain. (Photo by Ariela Kovary ’20) Image The widespread practice of watching a sunset with friends is one of my favorite parts of South African and Namibian culture. Solomon Bang ’19 and I especially enjoyed this “sundowner” in the hyper-arid Namib Desert that served as our playground and class. (Photo by Catherine Rocchi ’19) Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube