arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." James E. Wright Photos Honoring Their Service and Sacrifice 5/31/2022 Description Dartmouth celebrates veterans on Memorial Day. Thumbnail Articles The Fierce Advocacy of James Wright Date 11/09/2021 Body A new book, “War and American Life,” continues his work lifting up those who serve. Image Thumbnail Articles Three Seniors Receive Military Commissions Date 6/12/2021 Body In keeping with more than two centuries of tradition, three graduating seniors marched onto the stage of Spaulding Auditorium on Saturday in... Image Thumbnail Articles Remembering and Honoring Dartmouth’s Veterans Date 5/27/2021 Body William Eaton, Class of 1790, was just 16 when he joined George Washington’s Continental Army in 1780. Following the Revolution, he worked... Image Thumbnail Articles Author Phil Klay ’05 Begins a Virtual Montgomery Residency Date 7/29/2020 Body The award-winning novelist will talk with Dartmouth veterans and others in August. Image Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth Announces Partnership With VetLink Admissions Program Date 12/02/2018 Body Dartmouth has joined Service to School’s VetLink Program, continuing the College’s national leadership role in recruiting and supporting... Image Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth Remembers Former President George H.W. Bush Date 11/30/2018 Body Former President George H.W. Bush, who died yesterday at the age of 94, is remembered as a gracious, energetic, and patriotic man by members... Image Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth Names Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Veterans Date 8/29/2018 Body Assistant Dean Anne Hudak, who has worked with Dartmouth students in academic affairs and athletics for more than a decade, has been named... Image Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth Remembers Sen. John McCain Date 8/27/2018 Body A war hero, a senator, and a two-time contender for the presidency who criticized the current administration but never wavered in his... Image Thumbnail Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube