arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar About Liberal Arts at the Core List Items Text Founded in 1769 Text Hanover, NH Text 4,000+ Undergraduates A vibrant, inclusive learning environment where students and faculty respond with research and innovation to the most pressing challenges of our time. Our Mission Dartmouth educates the most promising students and prepares them for a lifetime of learning and of responsible leadership through a faculty dedicated to teaching and the creation of knowledge. Image Image Image Image Image Image Image Image Image 1769 Founded Charter establishing Dartmouth was signed by John Wentworth, the Royal Governor of New Hampshire. 40+ Academic departments and programs As an undergraduate you can explore the arts and sciences before declaring or designing your major. 7:1 Undergraduate student-to-faculty ratio The majority of classes have 20 or fewer students. Our Core Values Dartmouth expects academic excellence and encourages independence of thought within a culture of collaboration. Dartmouth faculty are passionate about teaching our students and are at the forefront of their scholarly or creative work. Dartmouth embraces diversity with the knowledge that it significantly enhances the quality of a Dartmouth education. Dartmouth recruits and admits outstanding students from all backgrounds, regardless of their financial means. Dartmouth fosters lasting bonds among faculty, staff, and students, which encourage a culture of integrity, self-reliance, and collegiality and instill a sense of responsibility for each other and for the broader world. Dartmouth supports the vigorous and open debate of ideas within a community marked by mutual respect. Dartmouth bridges arts and sciences. Teaching and scholarship. Learning and leading. Our region and the world. These connections thrive at the heart of our academic enterprise. 1 4 Left heading The Arts Left image Image Left body We value, nurture, and showcase creativity in every corner of the campus. Left links Hood Museum of Art| Hopkins Center for the Arts Left heading Teacher Left image Image Left body The Faculty of Arts and Sciences includes more than 420 tenured and tenure-track faculty members for whom teaching is a passion, a calling, a way of life. Left links Dean of the Faculty Left heading Learner Left image Image Left body 60% of undergraduate students do independent study with faculty mentors. Left links Senior Fellowships Left heading Upper Connecticut River Valley Left image Image Left body Mountains, rivers, lakes, scenic byways—the Upper Connecticut River Valley has it all. Left links Outdoor Programs| Mount Moosilauke| Dartmouth Skiway| Organic Farm Right heading The Sciences Right image Image Right body We don’t just lecture about science. We do science. Right Links E.E. Just Program| Women in Science Project Right heading Scholar Right image Image Right body Our faculty, including three 2021 Guggenheim recipients, are world-renowned experts who create new knowledge in the arts and sciences. Right Links Research, Scholarship & Creativity| Faculty Experts Right heading Leader Right image Image Right body 80% of students participate in internships in organizations around the world. Right Links Dickey Center| ISTS - Neukom Institute Right heading World Right image Image Right body Faculty, students, and alumni are world travelers whose projects take them to every latitude and time zone. Right Links The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education Find your way around Dartmouth’s 269-acre main campus and beyond. Campus Map Visit Campus Map is loading Image Research More than 75 centers and institutes offer expanded learning and research in areas as diverse as medicine, the arts, engineering, and business. Many are interdisciplinary and bring together faculty and students from across campus to work on complex issues. Image Leadership Meet our leaders, who believe Dartmouth’s impact on the world is extended through interdisciplinary faculty teams who collaborate at the leading edge of discovery and where students are given uncommon access to new ideas around the globe through course work and research opportunities. Image Visit Come to campus, you’re going to love it! The best way to satisfy your curiosity about learning and living at Dartmouth is to visit. We offer several options on most days, and we look forward to your participation in our programming. Image Life in the Upper Valley Our region is a lively, inclusive community, home to a vibrant arts district and surrounded by majestic mountains and rivers. Image Dartmouth Winter Carnival Learn more about the history and traditions of the greatest cold-weather celebration! Plus see photos of events, sculptures, and posters from years past. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube