arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar More news Articles Dhwani Kharel ’22 Wins Truman Scholarship News subtitle The award honors “outstanding leadership potential” in government or nonprofit service. Image Image (Photo by Jessie Young) 4/14/2021 Body Dhwani Kharel ’22, who was born in Nepal, plans to dedicate her life to protecting and advancing women’s rights around the world. This week, she received recognition and support from the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. Kharel is one of 62 new scholars who, according to the website, “demonstrate outstanding leadership potential, a commitment to a career in government or the nonprofit sector, and academic excellence.” The award funds graduate study, and Kharel plans to attend law school. “When President Hanlon called to give me the news, I was speechless,” Kharel says. “It’s really fantastic, because now I’ll be able to pursue a career in public service and not be worried about significant debt.” Kharel, who majors in government, says the global pandemic has put into sharp focus the social contributions and economic sacrifices women make on a daily basis, providing childcare and working on the front lines in health care and other essential occupations. “All of those things are interconnected,” she says. “I really want to work with an organization that advances women’s rights through an intersectional and holistic perspective.” Kharel is now developing an honors thesis along those lines. “It will take a feminist approach to examine why family is too often seen as a huge burden on women, and why women sometimes have to separate their work from their families to be taken seriously. How can we reframe family as a political unit? One that isn’t seen as baggage for women?” Kharel came to the United States from Nepal with her family when she was 3 years old, arriving first in Michigan, then moving to Nebraska. She now lives in South Dakota, where her father is a college professor. “South Dakota is predominantly white, so that shaped my experiences and made me realize how much of a sacrifice my parents made for me—especially since they don’t have family or people who look like them nearby. One of the biggest factors that contributed to my coming to Dartmouth and wanting to pursue a career in public service is that my parents have always instilled in me the fact that education can be a tool for good,” says Kharel. Kharel faced stiff competition for the Truman award. This year’s scholars were selected from 845 candidates nominated by 328 colleges and universities—a record number of applicants. “The overwhelming interest in public service from this year’s applicants is inspiring,” Terry Babcock-Lumish, the foundation’s executive secretary and a 1996 Truman Scholar from Pennsylvania, writes on the organization’s website. “This last year tested our nation with a deadly pandemic, an economic crisis, and a renewed call to address climate change and racial injustice. While these are trying times, Americans can take solace that a generation of action-oriented young leaders are already tackling today’s challenges with an eye towards bettering tomorrow’s world.” Written by Charlotte Albright Share thisFacebookTwitterEmail Categories Global Science & Health Society & Culture Tags Awards Class of 2022 Students Videos Looking Back at Spring Term 2022 6/01/2022 Description A mix of new spaces and familiar places, plus some good sunshine, marked the season. Video Thumbnail Articles John Cho ’22 Explores Identity in Politics Date 5/31/2022 Body Texas native is considering a career in voting rights law. Image Thumbnail Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube