arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar About Visit Dartmouth Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image Campus Tours Join a student-led tour of campus or attend an Undergraduate Admissions information session. Register for a Tour Image Campus Map and Directions Directions to Dartmouth by car, plane, bus, and train. Once you’re here, find your way around with the campus map. Accessibility Image Commencement Resources for students, families, and guests, including a schedule of events, lodging, parking information, and more. Hanover Inn Dartmouth Image Dartmouth Library The Dartmouth Library has a rich history that began in 1770. Come visit the José Clemente Orozco mural, the Dr. Seuss Room, and more. Baker-Berry Library Rauner Special Collections Library Image Hood Museum of Art The Hood Museum of Art is now capturing physical gallery spaces with 3D Matterport™ imaging equipment and software, offering the opportunity to enjoy selected exhibitions from home. Public Art on Campus Image Hopkins Center for the Arts The Hopkins Center is a nexus of creativity in the Upper Valley, where everyone is invited to visit and experience the performing arts. More events Image Caption More than 10,079 fans, including an eight-year record of more than 2,000 students, saw Dartmouth defeat Yale Saturday at Memorial Field in a 24-17 overtime victory. (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Caption An admissions tour crosses the Green under a beautiful blue sky. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image Caption (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image Caption (Photo by Matthew Frates ’22) Image Caption (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image Caption Members of the evening concert crowd dance on the Green. Sophomore students and their families, in town for Dartmouth Family Weekend, were welcome to join in the community celebration. (Photo by Lars Blackmore) Image Caption “This Land: American Engagement with the Natural World” will be on view through July 23. (Photo by Rob Strong) Left right Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube