arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Campus Life Residential Life Image Living and learning. At Dartmouth, you’ll be part of a close-knit community that’s anchored by campus life. Whether in the undergraduate residence halls or the graduate student apartments near campus, you’re always near friends and faculty. Undergraduate Housing Graduate Student Housing Image Religious & Spiritual Life Find meaning. Seeking answers to life’s big questions doesn’t end in the classroom. At Dartmouth, you can engage in discourse about meaning, explore spirituality, and practice your faith through the resources of the Tucker Center for Spiritual and Ethical Life. Image Dining Pick your own. Locally sourced foods, specialty dishes, vegan and veggie options, brick oven pizza. Choose from a variety of cuisines prepared by Dartmouth’s award-winning food service at several dining areas and cafés, including four in Dartmouth’s dining hub, the Class of 1953 Commons. Accessibility Dartmouth is committed to ensuring that its programs, services, and activities are accessible to all. Disability-related accommodations are delivered through a network of established programs and offices that serve undergraduate, graduate, and professional school students, faculty, staff, visitors, and guests. Accommodation needs and inquiries about accessibility assistance are welcome. Safety and Security The Department of Safety and Security provides Dartmouth with professional safety and security services that include incident response, investigation, and follow-up of all security-related matters that come to our attention. We strive to engage our community via education, information sharing, and training programs, as our strongest ally in deterrence and prevention. Health and Wellness In order to maintain a healthy lifestyle we encourage students to think about their social, mental, and physical wellness. Diversity and Inclusion Many cultures, one community. At Dartmouth, differences are embraced and ideas are challenged. Our diverse community of students, faculty, and staff come together to share perspectives, learn, and grow. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube