arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Pause Winter Carnival What Dartmouth event inspired a Hollywood movie, triggered an 8-mile traffic jam on the roads leading into Hanover in 1952, and was called “the Mardi Gras of the North” by “National Geographic?” If you guessed Dartmouth’s winter carnival, you are correct! Winter carnival has evolved over the years, with events coming and going, such as a formal dance that is no longer held. But one thing remains constant: winter carnival at Dartmouth is still one of the greatest cold-weather celebrations. Image Snow Sculptures One event Dartmouth’s 112th winter carnival will celebrate is the building of the iconic snow sculpture on the Green. Take a look back at some of the creations students have built over the years. Image Skates, Skis, and Snowshoes Required Students bravely face the polar bear plunge, skiers fly off the ski jump, and human dog sledders vie for bragging rights. Image Poster Collection This is the perfect storm of poster art, not because every poster is perfect—some, in fact, are amateurish, others exquisite—but rather because it is extremely rare to find a collection focused on a single theme spanning such a broad period of time. See all posters The History of Winter Carnival In 1922, a popular 50-meter ski jumping event debuted at winter carnival. The Vale of Tempe ski jump’s 85-foot tall steel trestle stood on the Hanover Country Club golf course for more than 70 years, with a landing area adjacent to what was the 13th green. The jump was removed in 1993 after the NCAA had dropped ski jumping as a collegiate sport eight years earlier. A plaque now marks the site where thousands once gathered to cheer the soaring ski jumpers. Image Crowds gather to watch the ski jump competition at the 1930 winter carnival. (Photo courtesy of the Dartmouth Library) Image Outdoor Evenings, 1932. The Feb. 16, 1938 edition of the New York Times said of that year’s show, “Tonight at the golf course one of the best “Outdoor Evenings” the carnival has ever had was a blaze of color. Figure skating, ski stunting and jumping under colored light, the blare of music and a final golden burst of skyrockets in the cold evening air brought roars of applause from the thousand on the hillside.” (Photo by Walter Merryman, courtesy of the Dartmouth Library) “Outdoor Evening” was a popular winter carnival figure skating show that featured members of the Skating Club at Dartmouth, as well as top figure skaters like two-time Olympic gold medalist Dick Button. In 1947, the Hanover Gazette described a crowd of “more than 2,000 spectators who sat in Dartmouth’s Memorial Stadium” to watch the figure skating performance. The 1960 winter carnival featured the Olympic figure skating team and was televised by CBS. The final “Outdoor Evening” event was held in 1961. Since the first winter carnival snow sculpture (a medieval castle) was constructed in 1925, there have been many impressive efforts, including a fire-breathing dragon. But the 1987 snow sculpture was especially impressive. The 47.5-foot, saxophone-wielding snowman—homage to the “Blizzard on Bourbon Street” theme—set the Guinness Book of World Records that year for the tallest snowman. Image (Photo by Larry Crowe/Valley News) Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube