Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Dartmouth Campaign Logo About Strategic Priorities Campaign Leadership Campaign Events Campaign Goals Dartmouth’s Distinctive Educational Model Discoveries to Benefit Humankind Educating Wise Leaders Giving Opportunities Ways to Give Your Impact Stories Why I Give Act Now Search Home Watch Video Our Top Priorities ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY Attracting the best students from around the world INTEGRATED LEARNING DISTRICTS ARTSEnhancing every academic experience through the arts TECHNOLOGYDeveloping leaders who drive change through innovation A Healthy Welcoming Community Providing a safe, equitable, diverse, and inclusive campus Inline block How will you answer the call to lead? Today, Dartmouth is an institution changed, shaped by visionary investment—but our work is not yet finished. Make an immediate impact with a gift to the Dartmouth College Fund: Give Once Give Monthly Find more ways to give: Enter search text Inline block Leadership in action Root for yourself. And root for those around you, too. Because success isn’t a zero-sum game.” Mindy Kaling '01 H’18 Campaign supporter, actress, producer Read Mindy’s story Be bold. Be smart. Be brave. Be true. Go forth and rock. Jake Tapper ’91 H’17 Journalist and author Read Jake’s story Don’t dodge the tough problems. Run towards them and encourage those around you to do likewise. Henry M. Paulson Jr. ’68 ’H07 P’97 Former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Read Hank’s story I chose to completely commit. Mateo Romero ’89 Painter Read Mateo’s story Become a leader that makes room for the idea. Shonda Rhimes ’91 H’14 Television producer, screenwriter, author Read Shonda’s story Trust is earned by the work you do, not the words you say. Austin Beutner ’82 P’19,’25 Former Superintendent, Los Angeles Unified School District Read Austin’s story Think independently and question convention. Bonnie Ann Henderson ’89 MED ’93 Eye surgeon, inventor, entrepreneur Read Bonnie’s story We are finally talking about racism as a problem worth solving. John Rich ’80 H’07 Public health expert, MacArthur Foundation Fellow Read John’s story You have to learn to deal with failure, because you’re going to fail in one way or another. Tommy Clark ’92 MED ’01 Grassroot Soccer CEO and founder Read Tommy's story Leadership requires making tough decisions. Dr. Joanne M. Conroy ’77 CEO and president, Dartmouth Hitchcock Health Read Joanne's story Leaders aren’t well served if they only hear yes. Ed Haldeman ’70 P’03,’08 Chairman, S&P Global; former CEO, Freddie Mac and Putnam Investments Read Ed’s story Leadership is about confidence and authenticity. Lisa V. Adams MED ’90 Director of the Center for Global Health Equity, Dartmouth Read Lisa's story Sometimes you need to push yourself and take chances. Geoff Ralston ’82 President, Y Combinator; entrepreneur Read Geoff’s story Our country needs a fundamental reimagining. Maya Wiley ’86 Civil rights activist, lawyer, racial justice expert Read Maya’s story Journalism is relevant and alive. Geeta Anand ’89 P’22 Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter; dean of the Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism Read Geeta’s story Your values define you as a leader in an ambiguous world. Elyse Allan ’79 TU’84 P’14 Director, Brookfield Asset Management Read Elyse’s story Curiosity opens new worlds of possibilities and human potential. Latif Nasser ’08 Podcaster, television producer Read Latif’s story We need to stand up for what we believe. Kaushal Shah MED ’00 COVID-19 frontline responder, emergency room physician Read Kaushal’s story Make people feel welcome, no matter their background. Kaya Thomas ’17 Computer scientist, app developer Read Kaya’s story Inline block Inline block $3,284,521,211 Raised to Date A record-breaking number of alumni have already given to The Call to Lead campaign, and we’ve almost reached our participation goal to engage 60% of all alumni. 95.1% TO PARTICIPATION GOAL Inline block Watch Campaign Highlights Browse the latest videos to find out what’s ahead for The Call to Lead. Dartmouth Adopts Need-Blind Admissions for All Strengthening our ability to enroll talented students from across the globe. Students React to Need-Blind Admissions for All What does the landmark announcement means for the campus community? The Call to Lead Reaches $3 Billion: Our Moment of Possibility A transformational investment in the future. A Peek Inside the Engineering and Computer Science Center The 160,000-square-foot building will anchor Dartmouth’s innovation and technology hub in the West End of campus. A Peek Inside the New Irving Institute Building The Arthur L. Irving Institute's 55,000-square-foot building will be nexus for exploring our energy future. Dartmouth Financial Aid Changes Lives Meet four remarkable alumni whose lives were forever transformed. The Enduring Legacy of Dr. E.E. Just, Dartmouth Class of 1907 How the pioneering Black scientist is inspiring underrepresented students. Dartmouth’s West End District A hub for technology and innovation. Meet Our Energy Future The students working together to make a difference. #HopLove: Welcome Students and alums share memories of creation from the Hop. #HopLove: Gather A home for creatively-minded students. #HopLove: Create How does the Hop inspire you to create? Top campaign news May 17, 2022 Dartmouth Celebrates the Melding of the Liberal Arts and Technology—to Create a Better World The Dartmouth Innovation & Technology Festival marks the opening of the new West End District, where students and faculty will shape interdisciplinary solutions to complex challenges May 16, 2022 Dartmouth College Announces Outreach, Partnership with Native American Communities Four-year pilot program will enable students to work with Native American communities on health care, economic, and governmental challenges May 4, 2022 Dartmouth Names New Technology Center for Class of 1982 State-of-the-art engineering and computer science facility honors $50 million in philanthropic leadership May 4, 2022 Meet Four E.E. Just Program Undergraduate Fellows and Learn About Their Research After a landmark gift in 2021, an expanded E.E. Just Program continues to create pathways to success for underrepresented students in STEM View All News Why I Give Dartmouth has always been a place of pure possibility to me. Its rare magic should be available to the most deserving students around the world, not the ones most able to afford it. Kimberley Tait Lowe ’01 Now more than ever we need to support Dartmouth as it continues educate and inspire the leaders, scientists, thinkers, organizers and activists of tomorrow ... W. Kyle Gore ’84 My everyday life is enriched by an inspiring backdrop of Dartmouth memories. Many of my favorites wind up and down the staircases and hidden passageways of the Hopkins Center … Glenn A. Grube ’82 TH ’83 I give because, unlike when I was on campus, there are now out and visible resources for LGBTQ+ students, staff, and faculty. Rob Saltzman ’76 Read more Inline block Give Now Support the Dartmouth College Fund Give Now View All Opportunities Home</svg></a>
      </div>

      Copyright © 2021 Dartmouth College All rights reserved About Contact Us Privacy Hanover, NH 03755 USA calltolead@dartmouth.edu (603) 646-1904 Facebook Twitter Instagram