arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar The Student Experience Summer at Dartmouth Study in the sun. With Dartmouth’s quarterly academic calendar, our campus and classrooms are buzzing year-round. Second-year undergraduates are in residence for sophomore summer; researchers keep the labs, studios, and libraries humming with activity; and visitors take in the lush beauty and full schedule of a Hanover summer. Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Dartmouth students hiking Mount Ascutney: Carly Tymm ’20, Katherine Kane ’20, and Phoebe Cunningham ’20 (Photo by Kevin Yang) Sophomore Summer The midpoint of your Dartmouth education, Sophomore Summer is an important moment to plan your major, explore career options, and even get to know your subject area librarian—a key partner for upcoming research projects. Academics First and foremost, summer term means summer study. A typical course load is three classes, just as it is for any other academic term. Thanks to Dartmouth’s distinctive D-Plan, as a rising junior you’ll be on campus together with your entire class the summer following your sophomore year. Planning The Undergraduate Deans Office provides detailed materials for sophomores to help you take advantage of all that Dartmouth has to offer. Leadership and Service With the entire campus dedicated to your class, you're in charge. It's a time when leadership positions for many student organizations transition into the hands of rising juniors. Examples of extracurricular opportunities that will be uniquely yours include leadership programming from the Rockefeller Center and volunteer service with SEAD, Dartmouth's summer enrichment program for students from under-resourced high schools. The Great Outdoors There's no denying it, summer is a beautiful time to be at Dartmouth. The skies are blue, the mountains are green, and the Connecticut River swim docks are just a few steps from the Green on a hot day. The region around Hanover is fun to explore by foot, bike, and car or through Outdoor Programs. On campus, Dartmouth's calendar is full of conferences and performances. Image Summer Term for College Students Dartmouth offers students currently attending undergraduate programs at other colleges the opportunity to take one, two, or three courses during the summer term. Image Summer Enrichment at Dartmouth (SEAD) Every summer, promising students from under-resourced high schools convene at Dartmouth for this college-prepatory program. Image Tuck Business Bridge Program An intensive, career-focused program for college juniors, seniors, and recent graduates covers the basics of accounting, marketing, finance, and leadership. Institute for Security, Technology and Society Dartmouth’s ISTS offers summer programs in cyber security for high school and undergraduate students. The Rassias Center The Rassias Center’s Accelerated Language Programs produce rapid gains in proficiency by immersing adults in a language. Osher Summer Program Each summer, the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at Dartmouth brings top experts to campus for a cohesive lecture series. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube