arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar More news Articles Maya Rulers Put Personal Stamp on Monumental Complexes News subtitle A study shows how the rulers transformed cities to reshape memories of the landscape. Image Image Maya ruins in Tikal, Guatemala 2009. (Image by chensiyuan is licensed under CC BY 4.0) 9/28/2021 Body Early Maya cities featured monumental complexes with pyramids, plazas, and other structures, which centered on a shared religion. These complexes were used for rituals, including astronomical observances. But by the time kingship emerged, in 400 B.C., many of these complexes had been radically transformed. To solidify their power, rulers throughout the Maya lowlands changed the complexes, installing their mark on the landscape to reshape how these places would be remembered, according to a Dartmouth study published in Ancient Mesoamerica. Image Ryan Collins, postdoctoral fellow in anthropology at the Neukom Institute for Computational Science, is the author of a study examining how rulers in Maya cities changed monumental complexes to install their mark on the landscape. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) “Just as political leaders today often seek to brand themselves, so too did early Maya rulers,” says Ryan H. Collins, a postdoctoral fellow in anthropology at the Neukom Institute for Computational Science. “Maya rulers seemed to have had real angst about the past world and think that it could interfere with their authority, so they would try to tweak it, or even erase it altogether. These rulers saw themselves as the embodiment of the Maya sun god and wanted to put their personal stamp on the city, so monuments and the ways people experienced the city were modified to reflect a ruler’s desires over his or her lifetime.” Quote Just as political leaders today often seek to brand themselves, so too did early Maya rulers. Attribution Ryan H. Collins, postdoctoral fellow in anthropology at the Neukom Institute for Computational Science Among the Maya pyramid plaza complexes and temple sites for which Collins examined data are the E Groups—Yaxuná, San Bartolo, and Tikal, in Mexico; Ceibal, in Guatemala; and Cahal Pech, in Belize. E Group sites are monumental complexes found at many sites with observed astronomical alignments with the equinoxes and solstices. Image Map of Maya lowlands in eastern Mesoamerica located in what is now Mexico, Belize, and Guatemala. (Illustration by Ryan H. Collins using ESRI ArcGIS with data from HERE, Garmin, FAO, USGS, NGA) According to archaeological data from Yaxuná and the other sites, Collins found that after 400 B.C., many Maya complexes in the E Group had been rebuilt on top of existing temples, dismantled, or abandoned altogether. “Over time, these temples became more about the rulers and less about the ritual and religion that once brought the communities together in the first place,” says Collins. At Yaxuná, in the original city center alone there were 11 phases of construction between 900 B.C. and 100 B.C. While new monuments within the E Group were built on top of old ones, some elements were retained over time. For example, the original eastern structure at Yaxuná contained a circular stone foundation on level eight that was preserved and emphasized by later generations through a circular line incised on the floor of level six. In addition, precious items, including magnetite and greenware beads, were found cached on levels seven and four. “The Maya would go back and mark spaces of social significance generations later, not centuries later, illustrating how people were really emphasizing memory and continuity with things that they thought were important,” says Collins. Other areas of the Yaxuná site and other E Group sites, however, contained evidence of termination rituals designed to destroy the energy of what may have been a sacred space. For example, in the eastern structure at Yaxuná, ash from incense that was likely burned was found near a grinding stone, evidence that a former ritual space was used to prepare food in later years. “In archaeology, there has been the assumption that Maya kingship represented a continuity with the past, but as Maya rulers altered people’s experience of where they lived, these rulers were actually breaking away from Mesoamerican building traditions and redefining the Maya city,” says Collins. “These changes may have driven Maya civilization’s shift from an egalitarian society to a more hierarchical structure.” Written by Amy Olson Share thisFacebookTwitterEmail Image Caption Architectural details and artifacts from Yaxuná. Circular building present on floor eight, just west of the original eastern structure. (Photo by Ryan H. Collins) Image Caption Fragment of polished magnetite found alongside other artifacts cached in a pair of intentional cuts on floor seven. (Photo by Ryan H. Collins) Image Caption Circular incised line present on floor six. (Photo by Ryan H. Collins) Image Caption Complete ceramic redware vessel cached in floor four associated with two greenstone beads. (Photo by Ryan H. Collins) Left right News contact Amy Olson can be reached at amy.d.olson@dartmouth.edu. Categories Arts & Humanities Science & Health Society & Culture Tags Department of Anthropology Scholar-Teachers Research Press Release Neukom Institute for Computational Science Videos Digging Dartmouth, Near Parkhurst 5/25/2022 Description Students unearth Hanover history alongside the Green. Video Thumbnail In the News VISTA Emerges as a Promising Immunotherapy Target in Cancer 5/24/2022 Description Professor of Microbiology and Immunology Randolph Noelle is featured in a review about the role of VISTA, V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of T-cell activation, as a promising target in cancer immunotherapy. Logo Image Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube