arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Department of Economics In the News Who Won the U.S.-China Trade War? 5/23/2022 Description An essay on the 2018-2020 trade war cites a paper co-authored by Tuck associate professor and globalization chair Davin Chor that used satellite imagery of lights in industrial areas of China to show the impact of tariffs. Economics professor Douglas Irwin is also quoted. Logo Image In the News If There’s a Loud Fight About Roe, How Will ‘Centrist America’ React? 5/13/2022 Description A column cites a 2006 study co-authored by economics professor Douglas Staiger that found children who were “born unwanted” before abortion was legalized “grew up in more disadvantaged households” and were also “more disadvantaged” as adults. Logo Image Quoted Quote The amount of investment in research and development for new pharmaceutical drugs seems to depend on how profitable those drugs are expected to be. Byline Leila Agha, assistant professor of economics | Attribution Time Date 4/25/2022 Quoted Quote This is not inflation being pushed by wage growth. There is no evidence that companies are raising prices because of increases in wages. Byline David Blanchflower, Bruce V. Rauner 1978 Professor of Economics | Attribution Reuters Date 4/11/2022 Quoted Quote It’s really the middle-income and low-income countries that are going to benefit the most. They still have very low rates of vaccination. Byline Christopher Snyder, Joel Z. and Susan Hyatt Professor of Economics | Attribution VPR Date 3/31/2022 Quoted Quote We haven’t made it easy for mothers of young children to work in the formal labor market. Byline Elizabeth Cascio, the DeWalt H. 1921 and Marie H. Ankeny Professor of Economic Policy | Attribution For All Date 3/30/2022 Articles Kudos: Garcia Named to Smithsonian Advisory Committee Date 3/22/2022 Body Dartmouth faculty and students are recognized for their achievements. Image Thumbnail Quoted Quote The main thing here is the Fed is way, way, way behind the curve. Byline Andrew Levin, professor of economics | Attribution Yahoo! Finance Date 3/17/2022 Articles Study Calls for Fractional Doses of COVID-19 Vaccines Date 3/04/2022 Body Stretching the supply of jabs globally could reduce infections and deaths. Image Thumbnail Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube