arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Office of the President Articles President Hanlon, Gail Gentes Test Positive for COVID-19 Date 5/01/2022 Body The couple is isolating at the President’s House. Image Thumbnail Quoted Quote It has taken far too long for these papers to be returned to where they have always belonged. But they are here now, accompanied by the spirit of Samson Occom that lives with them. Byline President Philip J. Hanlon ’77 | Attribution Connecticut Public Radio Date 4/28/2022 Articles ‘A Solemn and Celebratory Occasion’ Date 4/27/2022 Body Dartmouth repatriates Samson Occom papers to the Mohegan Tribe. Image Thumbnail Articles Earth Week Explores Sustainability From Many Angles Date 4/18/2022 Body A pop-up thrift shop, waste expo, and trivia contest are all on the lineup. Image Thumbnail Articles Three Faculty Members Win 2022 Guggenheim Fellowships Date 4/08/2022 Body César Alvarez, Brendan Nyhan, and Amie Thomasson are among 180 award recipients. Image Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth to Give Occom Papers to the Mohegan Tribe Date 3/30/2022 Body A delegation led by President Hanlon will attend the April 27 repatriation ceremony. Image Thumbnail Articles Qualities for Next President Set Out in Search Statement Date 3/29/2022 Body Search chair: “Input from the Dartmouth community has been invaluable.” Image Thumbnail Videos Sneak Peek at West End Buildings 3/23/2022 Description The Engineering and Computer Science Center and Irving Institute are opening to students. Video Thumbnail Quoted Quote The next year and a half will be full of action and ambition, because we have important things left to do. Byline President Philip J. Hanlon ’77 | Attribution Dartmouth News Date 2/28/2022 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube