arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Students Videos Looking Back at Spring Term 2022 6/01/2022 Description A mix of new spaces and familiar places, plus some good sunshine, marked the season. Video Thumbnail Articles John Cho ’22 Explores Identity in Politics Date 5/31/2022 Body Texas native is considering a career in voting rights law. Image Thumbnail Articles Kudos: Mock Trial Society Makes the Case Date 5/27/2022 Body Dartmouth faculty, students, and staff are recognized for their achievements. Image Thumbnail Videos Digging Dartmouth, Near Parkhurst 5/25/2022 Description Students unearth Hanover history alongside the Green. Video Thumbnail Photos Views From the Green: Sailing Through Spring 5/25/2022 Description From Lei Day to Barn Babies, May has a powerful pull. Thumbnail Quoted Quote We need to elect senators and House members who support voting rights and who will defend democracy instead of trying to kill it. Byline Martin Luther King III at the Social Justice Awards | Attribution WMUR Date 5/24/2022 Articles Karen E. Wetterhahn Science Symposium Marks Its 30th Year Date 5/23/2022 Body Undergraduates who conduct scientific research present their work and vie for prizes. Image Thumbnail In the News Valuable Pieces of Advice From the Best Graduation Speeches of All Time 5/20/2022 Description The 2014 Dartmouth commencement speech by Shonda Rhimes ’91 is cited among top 19 pieces of advice at graduation. She told graduates to “be a doer, not a dreamer,” and to seize opportunities, “staying open to trying something new.” Logo Image Articles ‘Wellbeing Week’ to Showcase Mental Health Resources Date 5/20/2022 Body The week culminates with “Unwind Your Mind,” a community gathering on Mass Row. Image Thumbnail Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube