arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences The Arts and Sciences consist of more than 40 academic departments and programs; top majors among 2020 graduates were economics, government, computer science, engineering sciences, and biology. The Arts and Sciences have 420 tenured and tenure-track faculty members and are among the leaders in the Ivy League in the percentage of tenured women. A Flexible Study Plan Pick a term, any term. With Dartmouth’s distinctive year-round system, you customize your own academic calendar. Dartmouth offers four 10-week terms per year; within some guidelines, you choose which 12 terms to enroll. The result: the ability to take full advantage of all Dartmouth has to offer, no matter the season. Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Courses and Calendars Set your schedule. Dartmouth offers more than 2,100 undergraduate courses in the liberal arts. Image Admissions Dartmouth is where you learn to think and imagine and do, where you build the resources to transform the world while transforming yourself. Image Degree Finder Find your passion here. Browse the undergraduate majors and graduate programs of study available at Dartmouth. Image Majors and Minors Define yourself. As a sophomore at Dartmouth, you’ll declare a major in an academic program that excites you intellectually. A Plan for Everyone No matter what your major, and whatever engages you outside the classroom, the D-Plan’s flexibility means you don’t have to choose between your on-campus commitments and the opportunity to work, study, or serve off-campus and abroad. Image D-Plan Your D-Plan is your personal enrollment pattern, your own mix of academic terms in residence, enrolled off-campus, and on leave. Image Leave-term Learning Use the entire year to your advantage—gain work experience in an internship, volunteer on a service project, or conduct field research. A number of Dartmouth programs even offer funding for leave-term opportunities. Image Off-Campus Programs Take your education on the road with Dartmouth’s extensive selection of language and topic-focused programs around the world. Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Dartmouth in Summer A term of your own. Thanks to Dartmouth’s distinctive D-Plan, as a rising junior you’ll be on campus together with your entire class taking a full slate of courses the summer following your sophomore year. Sophomore Summer Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube