Skip to main content EXTENSION Homegrown Menu Close About In The Garden In The Kitchen On The Farm Subscribe Homepage facebook twitter linked in email About In The Garden In The Kitchen On The Farm Subscribe Homepage The Secret Science of Fireflies (or is it Lightning Bugs?) Whatever you call them, it's a magical moment when you glimpse that first flash each year. Learn more about these beloved luminaries as our expert sheds some light on the subject. Watch Now Read More Are You Ready for Spring? From stormy afternoons and longer evenings to seasonal sniffles and fresh local produce, spring is upon us. Clocks jump forward, weeds come back, flowers burst into bloom and all of our vehicles are dyed a dull yellow. We love it! Previous Next Featured Video Homegrown Leaves of Three, Let It Be: How to Identify Poison Ivy Featured Video Homegrown Avoid Insect Invaders in Your Home During Winter, Spring Featured Video Homegrown Pollen Season Is Nothing to Sneeze at Featured Video Homegrown Foraging for Backyard Edibles Featured Video Homegrown Choosing Cool or Warm Season Grass for Your Lawn Latest Stories April 10, 2022 Starting a Backyard Chicken Flock February 26, 2022 A Budding Industry: North Carolina Hemp February 19, 2022 Air Fryers 101: Fried Foods Without All the Grease Subscribe to Homegrown Receive a monthly summary of our videos with tips and tools for gardening, cooking and sourcing food in North Carolina. Email* Δ Connect with us on Social facebook Facebook twitter Twitter youtube YouTube Learn and Explore Discover the latest findings for the kitchen, garden and farm right here. We’ll share tasty, nutritious recipes and safe food prep tips; show you what’s in season and how it’s grown; and help you learn where your food comes from and what it takes to feed North Carolina. IN THE GARDEN From growing your own produce to composting your kitchen scraps, we’ll take you through the finer points of putting your green thumb to good use. Go ahead, get your hands dirty. Most Recent More Stories has featured video Starting a Backyard Chicken Flock Whether you're in it for the eggs, companionship or simply wanting to try something new, having a backyard chicken flock can be a uniquely rewarding experience. It also poses its own unique challenges. has featured video Tips for Tidying Your Garden in Winter Spending a little time tending your tools and your beds at the end of the fall garden season will help you be ready for early spring planting without the burden of carryover clean-up chores. has featured video Growing Medicinal Plants in the Home Garden Herbs have been used in traditional medicine practices since prehistoric times. Today they're more popular than ever. Learn how to incorporate them into your home garden or landscape. IN THE KITCHEN Join us in the kitchen as we share nutritious recipes, expert cooking advice and food preservation tips to help you make the most of all our state offers. Most Recent More Stories has featured video Air Fryers 101: Fried Foods Without All the Grease Whether you're just now unboxing that air fryer from last Christmas or you're looking to take your air frying game to a new level, we'll help you make the most of your air fryer! has featured video Food Safety Tips for Home Meal Delivery Kits As home meal delivery options become available for more food products in more places, all with a quick click, how do you know if your food is safe to eat? has featured video Exploring Nutritional Half-Truths Nowadays everyone seems to be a nutrition expert, which makes finding factual information that much harder to track down. Get started by learning more about a trio of common nutrition half-truths. ON THE FARM We have a rich agricultural history in North Carolina. Journey with us across the state to discover how farmers produce many of our favorite foods and everyday products that we depend on. Most Recent More Stories has featured video A Budding Industry: North Carolina Hemp Discover how hemp has taken root in North Carolina, its future as a viable crop for growers, and what that means for consumers across the state and beyond. has featured video North Carolina Hops Are Happenin’ More than 350 craft breweries call North Carolina home. Discover how NC State is breeding better hops to help fuel the state's craft beer boom. has featured video How Sweet It Is: North Carolina’s Apple Economy NYC may be the Big Apple, but NC is big apple business. We retrace the road apples take from seed to supermarket, and explore how North Carolina helps supply America’s favorite fruit. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences NC State University Campus Box 7603 Raleigh, NC 27695-7603 Subscribe to Homegrown Email Δ About Homegrown In the Garden In the Kitchen On the Farm Comments / Ideas Employees About Extension Accessibility Our Team Connect With Us facebook twitter youtube