arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Social Justice Awards Quoted Quote She did social justice at scale. How? She taught us all to do the work. Byline Cheryl Bascomb ’82, Vice President for Alumni Relations | Attribution Valley News Date 5/26/2022 Quoted Quote We need to elect senators and House members who support voting rights and who will defend democracy instead of trying to kill it. Byline Martin Luther King III at the Social Justice Awards | Attribution WMUR Date 5/24/2022 Articles Martin Luther King III Issues Call to Action Date 5/23/2022 Body The social justice activist warns that democracy “is very much on the ballot.” Image Thumbnail Articles Martin Luther King III Speaks at Dartmouth Monday Date 5/17/2022 Body The event comes on the 60th anniversary of his father’s 1962 Dartmouth address. Image Thumbnail Articles Martin Luther King III to Speak at Dartmouth Date 4/12/2022 Body The event will take place on the anniversary of his father’s 1962 address on campus. Image Thumbnail Articles Social Justice Award Winners Announced Date 4/12/2022 Body Martin Luther King III to deliver keynote speech at the awards ceremony in May. Image Thumbnail Articles Social Justice Awards Event Will Feature Panel Discussion Date 1/19/2021 Body The recipients of this year’s Martin Luther King Jr. Social Justice Awards will be honored in a virtual award ceremony and panel discussion... Image Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth Presents Four Social Justice Awards Date 2/04/2020 Body Each year during the monthlong Martin Luther King Jr. celebration, Dartmouth honors members of the Dartmouth and Upper Valley community who... Image Thumbnail Articles Conversations With Change Makers: 2018 Social Justice Awards Date 1/30/2018 Body Each year during the College’s annual celebration of Martin Luther King Jr., Dartmouth recognizes members of the community for their... Image Thumbnail Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube