arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Admissions Financial Aid Apply for Aid Image Subtitle To make the full experience of a Dartmouth education affordable for you and your family. We know that the cost of education is considerable. We are committed to providing a need-based financial aid program that makes it financially possible for all admitted students to attend Dartmouth. Our goal is to give each student the full Dartmouth experience by removing financial barriers. Whether from Rio de Janeiro, Istanbul, or Texas, we will meet 100% of demonstrated need for every admitted student. Fact / Stat 59% Text Of the Class of 2023 offered financial aid Fact / Stat $112 million Text Amount of scholarships awarded in 2021 Image Undergraduate Financial Aid We strive to make the full experience of a Dartmouth education affordable for you and your family, for all four years. Apply for Aid Billing & Paying Tuition Image Tuck: Finance Your MBA The Tuck School of Business admits a highly qualified and diverse class of students without regard to their financial circumstances. Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Image Thayer Financial Aid & Loans In addition to loans and external funding opportunities, we also offer a range of school-based support in the form of fellowships, scholarships, and research assistant positions. Scholarship, Fellowship & Grant Programs Image Geisel Financial Aid Geisel School of Medicine supports equality of opportunity for persons, regardless of race or ethnic background. No student will be denied financial aid, or be otherwise discriminated against, because of age, disability, race, color, sexual orientation, religion, sex, or national or ethnic origin. Tuition and Costs Financing Medical School Brochure Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube