arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Undergraduate Housing Image Bildner Hall (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Welcome home. Nearly 90 percent of Dartmouth undergraduates live and learn together in residence halls; approved co-ed, fraternity, sorority houses, or undergraduate society houses; and affinity houses centered on academic or personal interests. Undergraduate Residential Life On-campus housing for undergraduates is offered within communities designed to enhance students’ academic and social experiences. See the houses Living Learning Communities Living learning communities foster a holistic and integrative learning process as part of the residential experience. Find out more about LLCs Residence Halls and Communities More than 3,000 undergraduates live in campus residence halls, which are grouped into clusters and supervised by full-time, live-in community directors. Learn more Greek Letter Organizations and Societies Students can live in College-recognized Greek houses beginning in the winter term of their sophomore year, and in undergraduate society houses beginning in the fall term of their sophomore year. Learn more Senior Apartments All students in the apartments belong to one of the six House Communities. All apartments can be selected by single gender or multi-gender roommate groups. You do not have to be part of the same House to live in the Senior Apartments. Learn more Image Caption (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Caption (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Caption Fahey Hall is a part of West House. (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Caption Carter Nelson ’22 studying inside “The Onion,” shared between South House and North Park House Communities. (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Image Caption (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Caption (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Left right Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube