arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Department of Mathematics Articles New Research Predicts Rising Political Polarization Date 3/21/2022 Body Professor Feng Fu’s lab uses mathematical models to upend the “median voter theorem.” Image Thumbnail Quoted Quote It might be the oldest problem ever. Byline Carl Pomerance, professor emeritus of mathematics | Attribution Quanta Magazine Date 3/11/2022 In the News Dinner! Drinks! Denominators! 1/10/2022 Description A “Talk of the Town” piece by math and computer science professor Dan Rockmore celebrates a regular New York City “math dinner theater” starring math professor Peter Winkler, put on for New York’s National Museum of Mathematics since 2019. Logo Image In the News New Book is ‘a Mathematical Version of Musical Variations on a Theme’ 1/03/2022 Description Math and computer science professor Dan Rockmore reviews Philip Ording’s 99 Variations on a Proof, which surveys different styles that can be used to prove a single theorem. Logo Image In the News Chaos Theory Tries to Make Climate Change a Little Less Chaotic 10/20/2021 Description Math professor Dimitrios Giannakis is quoted in a column about Dartmouth’s academic clusters, which bring together researchers from different fields to address complex issues, such as climate change. Logo Image Articles New Faculty to Apply Mathematical Thinking to Major Issues Date 9/20/2021 Body Professors Peter Mucha and Dimitrios Giannakis join the Jack Byrne Academic Cluster. Image Thumbnail Articles Have a Favorite Linguistics Meme? There’s a Club For That Date 8/17/2021 Body The Dartmouth Undergraduate Linguistics Club offers a place to learn and connect. Image Thumbnail Articles Celebrating the Careers of Faculty Retirees Date 8/09/2021 Body Nine Faculty of Arts and Sciences members retired in 2021. Image Thumbnail Articles Big Data Tells Story of Diversity, Migration of Math’s Elite Date 3/29/2021 Body Math’s top prize, the Fields Medal, has succeeded in making mathematics more inclusive, but still rewards elitism, according to a Dartmouth... Image Thumbnail Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube