arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Academics Image Hood Museum of Art (Photo by Robert Gill) Research, learning, and public dialogue intersect in our centers and institutes. Culture Bregman Media Labs: A collective of faculty, staff, and students working in music, film and media, architecture, computer science, neuroscience, and other disciplines. Center for Business, Government and Society: Creates and develops awareness, knowledge, skills, wisdom, and leadership on issues at the intersection of business, government and society. Center for Entrepreneurship: Fosters and facilitates a thriving entrepreneurial community of starters, builders, advisors, and early-stage investors committed to transforming the world through innovation and collaboration. Center for Health Equity: Works to enable people from communities large and small to overcome barriers to care and to build a healthier future for themselves and their children Center for Social Brain Sciences: A research and training center focused on the study of how the brain supports a sense of self and an understanding of others. Dartmouth Institute for Calligraphy and Manuscript Culture in China: Organizes courses, exhibitions, and workshops related to the art of Chinese calligraphy. Dickey Center for International Understanding: Aims to produce the best understanding and analysis of international issues through multidisciplinary research on complex problems. Ethics Institute: Fosters the study and teaching of ethics throughout the Dartmouth community, at the undergraduate, graduate, and professional schools. Hood Museum of Art: A teaching museum that creates an ideal learning environment that fosters transformative encounters with works of art. Hopkins Center for the Arts: The cultural hub of campus, nurturing a passion for the arts within the Dartmouth community and in the Upper Valley region. Institute for Writing and Rhetoric: Fosters the habits of inquiry, reading, writing, and speech that constitute the heart of a liberal arts education. Leslie Center for the Humanities: An interdisciplinary space for the production and advancement of humanistic knowledge, helping to define and promote the value of the humanities. Montgomery Endowment: Enriches the academic life of Dartmouth by bringing to campus leading figures in a range of fields as Montgomery Fellows. Rassias Center for World Languages and Cultures: Promotes cultural understanding and strengthens communication among people around the world. Health bioMT: Institute for Biomolecular Targeting (NIH COBRE): Accelerates the research productivity and scientific impact of junior faculty leading interdisciplinary research projects in the areas of cancer, infection, neuroscience, and biomedical engineering across the spectrum of target discovery, validation, and inhibition. Bregman Media Labs: A collective of faculty, staff, and students working in music, film and media, architecture, computer science, neuroscience, and other disciplines. The C. Everett Koop Institute at Dartmouth: Seeks to advance health and well-being through research, education, and policy efforts to protect public health and prevent disease particularly focusing on threats posed by the unhealthy promotion and use of consumer products. Center for Cognitive Neuroscience at Dartmouth: Works to understand how information is encoded in brain activity and structure. Center for Health Equity: Works to enable people from communities large and small to overcome barriers to care and to build a healthier future for themselves and their children Center for Imaging Medicine: Develops new imaging tools and methods and facilitates efforts toward the clinical translation of these new imaging and therapy tools. Center for Learning and Professional Development: Offers diverse and innovative learning opportunities to enable health care professionals to maintain and improve their knowledge, skills, and behaviors. Center for Molecular Epidemiology (NIH COBRE): Seeks to transform the research capacity at Dartmouth's Geisel School of Medicine by stimulating high impact research, and translate cutting-edge approaches to enhance human health discoveries. Center for Program Design and Evaluation at Dartmouth (CPDE): Provides effective design and comprehensive, accurate and actionable feedback to help programs achieve their goals. Center for Quantitative Biology: Supports and enhances NIH-funded quantitative biological research at Dartmouth and facilitates its integration with experimental biology. Center for Social Brain Sciences: Focuses on the study of how the brain supports a sense of self and an understanding of others. Center for Surgical Innovation: Seeks to improve surgical procedures and develop new surgical tools and technologies to improve patient care. Center for Technology and Behavioral Health: Pursues informing and enhancing the development, evaluation, and implementation of novel technology-based interventions for substance-use and related disorders. Children's Environmental Health and Disease Prevention Research Center: Researches environmental exposures to common contaminants such as arsenic during fetal development and childhood; and the impact these exposures have on childhood immunity, growth, and neurological development. Dartmouth Biomedical Engineering Center: Combines materials research, engineering design, biomechanical assessment and modeling and orthopaedic implant evaluation in an interactive teaching environment. Dartmouth Brain Imaging Center: Houses an MRI machine used strictly for research and available to students and faculty studying a wide range of topics related to neuroscience. Dartmouth Centers For Health and Aging: Aims to improve the quality of life for northern New England's more than 350,000 elderly, by fostering research, education and interdisciplinary collaboration. Dartmouth Cystic Fibrosis Research Center: Builds on our CF-related research in lung infection, inflammation/immunity and translational science, by investigating host-microbe interactions in the gut, and their impact on gut dysbiosis and overall systemic health of CF-related diabetes patients. Dartmouth Global Health Initiative: Provides opportunities for students to develop their interest and skills in global health through research partnerships and internship opportunities tailored to their educational and career goals. Dartmouth-Hitchcock ALS Center: Encompasses a comprehensive care Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis clinic and research laboratories that study the condition at Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth. Dartmouth Toxic Metals Superfund Research Program: Investigates the ways in which environmental arsenic and mercury affect ecosystems and human health. New Hampshire IDeA Network of Biological Research Excellence (NH-INBRE): Aims to develop a coordinated network of biomedical research and research training in New Hampshire. Norris Cotton Cancer Center: Works to prevent and cure cancer through pioneering interdisciplinary research, to translate new knowledge into better prevention and treatment, and to provide effective and compassionate clinical care that improves the lives of patients with cancer and their families. The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy & Clinical Practice Strives to improve population health, reduce disparities, and create high-performing, sustainable health systems. Tuck Center for Healthcare: Creates learning opportunities, generates knowledge, and serves as a forum for understanding the business of health care and the impact of health care on business. Natural Sciences Bregman Media Labs: A collective of faculty, staff, and students working in music, film and media, architecture, computer science, neuroscience, and other disciplines. bioMT: Institute for Biomolecular Targeting (NIH COBRE): Accelerates the research productivity and scientific impact of junior faculty leading interdisciplinary research projects in the areas of cancer, infection, neuroscience, and biomedical engineering across the spectrum of target discovery, validation, and inhibition. Center for Cognitive Neuroscience at Dartmouth: A community of scientists and scholars working to understand how information is encoded in brain activity and structure. Center for Imaging Medicine: Develops new imaging tools and methods and facilitates efforts toward the clinical translation of these new imaging and therapy tools. Center for Learning and Professional Development: Offers diverse and innovative learning opportunities to enable health care professionals to maintain and improve their knowledge, skills, and behaviors. Center for Molecular Epidemiology (NIH COBRE): Seeks to transform the research capacity at Dartmouth's Geisel School of Medicine by stimulating high impact research, and translate cutting-edge approaches to enhance human health discoveries. Center for Quantitative Biology: Supports and enhances NIH-funded quantitative biological research at Dartmouth and facilitates its integration with experimental biology. Center for Social Brain Sciences: Focuses on the study of how the brain supports a sense of self and an understanding of others. Center for Surgical Innovation: Seeks to improve surgical procedures and develop new surgical tools and technologies to improve patient care. Center for Technology and Behavioral Health: Pursues informing and enhancing the development, evaluation, and implementation of novel technology-based interventions for substance-use and related disorders. Children's Environmental Health and Disease Prevention Research Center: Researches environmental exposures to common contaminants such as arsenic during fetal development and childhood; and the impact these exposures have on childhood immunity, growth, and neurological development. Cook Engineering Design Center: Connects Dartmouth students with industry partners to solve real-world problems quickly and economically. Dartmouth Biomedical Engineering Center: Combines materials research, engineering design, biomechanical assessment and modeling, and orthopaedic implant evaluation in an interactive teaching environment. Dartmouth Brain Imaging Center: Houses an MRI machine used strictly for research and available to students and faculty studying a wide range of topics related to neuroscience. Dartmouth Centers For Health and Aging: Aims to improve the quality of life for northern New England's more than 350,000 elderly, by fostering research, education and interdisciplinary collaboration. Dartmouth Cystic Fibrosis Research Center: Builds on our CF-related research in lung infection, inflammation/immunity and translational science, by investigating host-microbe interactions in the gut, and their impact on gut dysbiosis and overall systemic health of CF-related diabetes patients. Dartmouth-Hitchcock ALS Center: Encompasses a comprehensive care Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis clinic and research laboratories that study the condition at Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth. Dartmouth Toxic Metals Superfund Research Program: Investigates the ways in which environmental arsenic and mercury affect ecosystems and human health. Institute for Security, Technology, and Society (ISTS): Advances privacy and information security through interdisciplinary research, education, and outreach. Institute of Arctic Studies: Provides interdisciplinary research opportunities, discussion, and education in polar studies, highlighting the importance of polar regions. Irving Institute for Energy and Society: A hub of collaboration preparing the next generation of energy experts. Neukom Institute for Computational Sciences: Works to enable Dartmouth students and faculty to integrate computational technology into their scholarship. Revers Center: Cultivates leaders prepared to make informed energy, climate change and sustainability decisions during their careers that drive innovation for a sustainable future. Community Engagement Center for Autism: Leads programs in both basic research – understanding autism from a biological perspective – and translational research – developing tools that improve peoples’ lives. Center for Digital Strategies: Helps leaders better understand the impact of digital technologies on business strategy, enabling them to ask the right questions when faced with critical decisions. Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital: Supports Tuck students by providing programming and other experiential learning opportunities and connects them with the broader community of private equity and venture capital professionals. Cook Engineering Design Center: Connects Dartmouth students with industry partners to solve real-world problems quickly and economically. Dartmouth Toxic Metals Superfund Research Program: An interdisciplinary team of researchers that investigates the ways in which environmental arsenic and mercury affect ecosystems and human health. Hood Museum of Art: A teaching museum that creates an ideal learning environment that fosters transformative encounters with works of art. Hopkins Center for the Arts: The cultural hub of campus, nurturing a passion for the arts within the Dartmouth community and in the Upper Valley region. Institute of Arctic Studies: Provides interdisciplinary research opportunities, discussion, and education in polar studies, highlighting the importance of polar regions. Irving Institute for Energy and Society: A hub of collaboration preparing the next generation of energy experts. Leslie Center for the Humanities: Seeks to provide a space for the production and advancement of humanistic knowledge, helping to define and promote the value of the humanities. Montgomery Endowment: Enriches the academic life of Dartmouth by bringing to campus leading figures in a range of fields as Montgomery Fellows. Neukom Institute for Computational Sciences: Works to enable Dartmouth students and faculty to integrate computational technology into their scholarship. Rassias Center for World Languages and Cultures: Promotes cultural understanding and strengthens communication among people around the world. Revers Center: Cultivates leaders prepared to make informed energy, climate change and sustainability decisions during their careers that drive innovation for a sustainable future. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy and the Social Sciences: Educates, trains, and inspires the next generation of public policy leaders in all fields through education, lectures, skills training, and research. Social Science & Policy Center for Business, Government and Society: Creates and develops awareness, knowledge, skills, wisdom, and leadership on issues at the intersection of business, government and society. Center for Health Equity: Works to enable people from communities large and small to overcome barriers to care and to build a healthier future for themselves and their children Center for Program Design and Evaluation at Dartmouth (CPDE): Provides effective design and comprehensive, accurate and actionable feedback to help programs achieve their goals. Center for Social Brain Sciences: A research and training center focused on the study of how the brain supports a sense of self and an understanding of others. The C. Everett Koop Institute at Dartmouth: Seeks to advance health and well-being through research, education, and policy efforts to protect public health and prevent disease particularly focusing on threats posed by the unhealthy promotion and use of consumer products. Dartmouth Center for Social Impact: Prepares students to lead lives of purpose in the world through engagement in service to others. Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning (DCAL): Facilitates professional development for Dartmouth's faculty and cultivates a community of conversation about how people learn. Dartmouth Global Health Initiative: Provides opportunities for students to develop their interest and skills in global health through research partnerships and internship opportunities tailored to their educational and career goals. The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy & Clinical Practice: Strives to improve population health, reduce disparities, and create high-performing, sustainable health systems. Dickey Center for International Understanding: Aims to produce the best understanding and analysis of international issues through multidisciplinary research on complex problems. Ethics Institute: Fosters the study and teaching of ethics throughout the Dartmouth community, at the undergraduate, graduate, and professional schools. Institute for Writing and Rhetoric: Fosters the habits of inquiry, reading, writing, and speech that constitute the heart of a liberal arts education. Revers Center: Cultivates leaders prepared to make informed energy, climate change and sustainability decisions during their careers that drive innovation for a sustainable future. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy and the Social Sciences: Educates, trains, and inspires the next generation of public policy leaders in all fields through education, lectures, skills training, and research. Tucker Center: Educates Dartmouth students for lives of purpose and ethical leadership, rooted in service, spirituality, and social justice. Image Image Image Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube