arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Veterans Stories Articles Veterans Day: Duty, Honor, Service Date 11/10/2021 Body At Dartmouth, remembering those who serve goes beyond a single day. Image Thumbnail Articles The Fierce Advocacy of James Wright Date 11/09/2021 Body A new book, “War and American Life,” continues his work lifting up those who serve. Image Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth Honors Veterans with Ceremonies and Events Date 11/08/2021 Body The community comes together to say, “Thank you for your service.” Image Thumbnail Photos Dartmouth’s Mosel Runs 100 miles, Raises Flag to Honor Veterans 11/10/2020 Description Jason Mosel, a Marine veteran and a network engineer for Information, Technology, and Consulting, ran 100 miles around campus. Thumbnail Videos From Service to Scholar: Stories of Dartmouth’s Veterans 11/10/2020 Description Six veterans share how they went from serving their country to studying at Dartmouth. Video Thumbnail Photos Their Names Will Not Be Forgotten: Dartmouth’s War Memorials 11/05/2020 Description The markers to Dartmouth’s veterans stand in silent tribute to their sacrifice. Thumbnail Articles Author Phil Klay ’05 Begins a Virtual Montgomery Residency Date 7/29/2020 Body The award-winning novelist will talk with Dartmouth veterans and others in August. Image Thumbnail Photos Honoring Veterans for Their Service 11/13/2019 Description Campus Veterans Day commemorations included a student-veteran panel, a conference on the College’s military history, and a Q&A session with retired four-star Gen. Carter Ham. Thumbnail Videos Two Student-Veterans Share Memories and Hopes 11/10/2019 Description Karla Rosas ’20 and Brad Carney ’20 reflect on the sacrifices of the military and families. Video Thumbnail Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube