arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Arts | Exhibitions | Workshops & Training ADULT WORKSHOP: Expressive Writing This in-person workshop fuses explorations of works of art in the galleries with fun and meaningful expressive writing exercises. More events June 2, 2022 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm Add to Calendar Location Hood Museum of Art Sponsored by Hood Museum of Art Audience Public Registration required More information Randall Kuhlman Randall.A.Kuhlman@dartmouth.edu 603-646-2808 This in-person workshop fuses explorations of works of art in the galleries with fun and meaningful expressive writing exercises. No writing experience required, just a willing pen and curious mind. Facilitated by Vivian Ladd, teaching specialist, Hood Museum of Art, and author Joni B. Cole, founder of the Writer’s Center of White River Junction. Space is limited. CLICK HERE to register. Please note: Per College policy, face coverings are welcome but not required in Dartmouth's indoor spaces. Proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test are no longer required for visitors either. Dartmouth still recommends all visitors are up to date with their COVID-19 vaccinations or have received a negative COVID-19 test result within 72 hours prior to accessing Dartmouth locations or Dartmouth-sponsored in-person events. Click here to read Dartmouth's COVID-19 policies. Image: Louise Hamlin, Crew, 2021, oil on canvas. Courtesy of the artist. Photo by Jeffrey Nintzel. Location Hood Museum of Art Sponsored by Hood Museum of Art Audience Public Registration required More information Randall Kuhlman Randall.A.Kuhlman@dartmouth.edu 603-646-2808 Share This Facebook Twitter Email Permalink Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube