arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." election Articles Dartmouth Was an Early Stop in Dole’s Presidential Runs Date 12/06/2021 Body Political observers say the senator was a fierce conservative who welcomed debate. Image Thumbnail Articles Michael Herron Testifies Before Congress on Elections Date 6/21/2021 Body Michael Herron, the Remsen 1943 Professor of Government, appeared June 11 at a U.S. House hearing on voting rights, testifying that limits... Image Thumbnail Videos Video: Linda Fowler and Jennifer Miller on Biden’s First Days in Office 1/25/2021 Description With Joe Biden sworn in as the 46th president two weeks after the attack on the U.S. Capitol, and amid surging COVID-19 cases in the U.S, Li... Video Thumbnail Articles Professors Say Political Leaders Must Confront Capitol Attack Date 1/18/2021 Body Since 2016, government professors John Carey and Brendan Nyhan have been tracking the erosion of democratic norms in America through the... Image Thumbnail Videos Video: John Carey on the Attack on the U.S. Capitol 1/07/2021 Description John Carey, the associate dean for the social sciences and the John Wentworth Professor in the Social Sciences, talks about the storming of... Video Thumbnail Articles Jake Tapper ’91 Muses on Biden’s Win, Politics, Career Tips Date 11/12/2020 Body Dartmouth students had the chance to talk over the election of Joe Biden as the 46th president of the United States, discuss the state of... Image Thumbnail Videos Video: Dartmouth Students Volunteer on Election Day 11/08/2020 Description On Tuesday, local community members turned out to vote in the 2020 presidential election at Leverone Field House. Several Dartmouth students... Video Thumbnail Articles Election 2020: Live Updates From Dartmouth Date 11/03/2020 Body 11/4/2020 12 p.m. Muirhead Wins in Hanover Amid Record Absentee Voting Total voter turnout in Hanover was 7,171, just shy of the 2016... Image Thumbnail Videos Professor Brendan Nyhan on the Aftermath of Election Day 11/03/2020 Description While voters across the country took to the polls on Nov. 3, there were, as expected, no definitive results on election night. Professor of... Video Thumbnail Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube