arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Academics We Stand Apart Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Image Twisha Bhardwaj ’22, Leeza Petrov ’22; R. Hill Laboratory (Photo by Robert Gill) A Dartmouth education is unlike any other. Through person-to-person teaching and opportunities to create and apply knowledge on campus and across the globe, we instill a love of learning and a passion for success. We educate global citizens, gifted writers and artists, wise business leaders, thoughtful doctors, and compassionate engineers. Our faculty are deeply invested in nurturing creativity as well as critical thinking. You can explore the cultural underpinnings and economic impacts of great works while creating your own masterpiece, all with the guidance and support of world-class masters of their crafts. Fact / Stat 222 Text Students and young alumni who have received Fulbright scholarships Fact / Stat 60% Text Undergraduate students who do independent study in a typical year. Graduate and Professional Schools Image Geisel School of Medicine We empower a diverse, inclusive, and vibrant community of physicians and scientists to improve health locally and globally and tackle the most vexing challenges in health care. Image Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies We inspire students to blaze their own trails in postgraduate research and teaching, and award all PhD, MS, MA, and MALS (Master of Arts in Liberal Studies) degrees at Dartmouth. Image Thayer School of Engineering Taking a human-centered approach to design in both undergraduate and graduate courses, Thayer was the first national research institution to award more bachelor’s degrees in engineering to women than men. Image Tuck School of Business The world’s first graduate school of management, Tuck remains a global leader in business education, where you can earn your MBA or enroll in shorter-term executive education and other non-degree programs. Image In our close-knit academic community, there are many paths to both disciplinary and interdisciplinary study, and no barriers to curiosity. Innovative scholars who love to teach motivate students to work together in state-of-the-art labs and classrooms. Learn More Image Image Quote One major reason I came to Dartmouth is that my parents have always instilled in me the fact that education can be a tool for good. Attribution Dhwani Kharel ’22 Image Image Quote I grew up in a low-income family but was able to attend Dartmouth on full scholarship. Many things had to work together in just the right way to get me here. Attribution Syed Rakin Ahmed, Geisel ’22 Image Image Quote I didn’t want to just go to Everest and climb Everest. I think combining it with the research we did was a unique part of the journey. Attribution Matt Moniz ’20 Left Right 1 3 Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Learn more Image Departments & Programs At Dartmouth, education happens not only within traditional academic departments, but also at the intersections between them. Explore the 40+ departments and interdisciplinary programs of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences. Image Degree Finder Find your passion here. Browse the undergraduate majors and graduate programs of study available at Dartmouth. Image Research More than 75 centers and institutes offer expanded learning and research in areas as diverse as medicine, the arts, engineering, and business. Many are interdisciplinary and bring together faculty and students from across campus to work on complex issues. Image Dartmouth Library With more than 2 million volumes and expert one-on-one support from subject-specific librarians, the extensive print and digital collections of the Dartmouth Library expand intellectual horizons in an inviting, collegial setting. Image Undergraduate Arts & Sciences The Arts and Sciences consist of more than 40 academic departments and programs; top majors among 2020 graduates were economics, government, computer science, engineering sciences, and biology. Image Courses and Calendars Set your schedule. Dartmouth offers more than 2,100 undergraduate courses in the liberal arts. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube