arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar For You: Friends & Neighbors Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Latest news View News In the News An ‘Acoustic Camera’ Shows Joining the Right Band Boosts a Frog’s Sex Appeal Description Associate Professor of Biological Sciences Ryan Calsbeek credits departmental colleague Hannah ter Hofstede for telling him about the utility of an acoustic camera, which Calsbeek used to study the mating calls of wood frogs. Logo Image Videos Looking Back at Spring Term 2022 Description A mix of new spaces and familiar places, plus some good sunshine, marked the season. Video Thumbnail Articles Geisel Researchers to Share $4 Million Grant for Dementia Research Body The team will study how to improve “triadic” interactions between patients living with dementia, their care partners, and their clinicians. Image Thumbnail Geisel Facilities Image Library Friends and neighbors of Dartmouth can purchase a library card from the Circulation Desk in Baker-Berry Library. José Clemente Orozco Mural Image Sports Camps There are a variety of sports camps offered on Dartmouth campus. Some are even run by our very own coaches! Fitness and Lifestyle Improvement Program Adult Learning Image Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Osher at Dartmouth is a volunteer, non-profit organization that provides educational programs year-round. Opportunities include studying timely and provocative subjects by participating in courses, attending lectures, interacting at social events, and more. Join Osher Image DartmouthX Dartmouth offers online courses in a variety of subjects through DartmouthX, a partnership with “online learning destination and MOOC (massive open online course) provider,” EdX. DartmouthX courses are open and free for all. See courses More Resources Image Events See all the events and activities happening on campus every day—guest lectures, student presentations, performances, arts events, athletic contests, and more. Athletics Tickets Dartmouth Skiway Hopkins Center for the Arts Hood Museum of Art Image Life in the Upper Valley Swim, sail, paddle, skate, ski, hike, ride, climb—there’s no limit to outdoor adventure. There’s lots to do indoors too, in this hub for art, music, theater, dance, fine dining, and much more. Dartmouth Boathouse Moosilauke Ravine Lodge Dartmouth Skiway Ledyard Canoe Club Greenhouse News Stay connected. Dartmouth News is your source for news, stories, and ideas from Dartmouth College. Subscribe to Dartmouth News Dartmouth Together COVID-19 Visit The best way to satisfy your curiosity about learning and living at Dartmouth is to visit. On most days, we offer several options and we look forward to your participation in our programming. Campus Map Campus Tours Hanover Inn Dartmouth Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube