arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Scholar-Teachers Articles William Cheng Named a Radcliffe Fellow Date 5/24/2022 Body The professor of music will spend a year in residence at Harvard’s Radcliffe Institute. Image Thumbnail Articles Emily Walton Named Society of Fellows Director Date 4/29/2022 Body The sociologist says the interdisciplinary project spurs creation of new knowledge. Image Thumbnail Articles Three Faculty Members Win 2022 Guggenheim Fellowships Date 4/08/2022 Body César Alvarez, Brendan Nyhan, and Amie Thomasson are among 180 award recipients. Image Thumbnail Articles Tanaka Chikati ’25 Featured on Google Arts and Culture Date 4/07/2022 Body The music major wants to support other aspiring artists in Zimbabwe. Image Thumbnail Articles The Algorithm for Publishing Success Date 4/05/2022 Body Professor emeritus of computer science sees his introductory textbook reach a fourth edition. Image Thumbnail Articles Events to Mark Recommitment to Native American Education Date 4/01/2022 Body The lawyer in a major lawsuit over Indian trust funds will speak next week. Image Thumbnail Quoted Quote We haven’t made it easy for mothers of young children to work in the formal labor market. Byline Elizabeth Cascio, the DeWalt H. 1921 and Marie H. Ankeny Professor of Economic Policy | Attribution For All Date 3/30/2022 Articles Meet Dartmouth’s Newest Faculty Members Date 3/29/2022 Body Twenty-eight teacher-scholars joined the community this year. Image Thumbnail In the News Being Read on Reddit: How an AI Model Can Predict a User’s Mental Health 3/25/2022 Description Xiaobo Guo, Guarini ’24, and computer science professor Soroush Vosoughi are quoted about a study they and another researcher co-authored describing the AI model they developed to detect emotional mental disorders based on web posts. Logo Image Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube