arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Arts Articles Hopkins Center Hopes to Lift Up Music From Mexico Date 5/25/2022 Body A symposium this week will include the launch of the Mexican Repertoire Initiative. Image Thumbnail Quoted Quote We’re making the building more of a destination in every way possible. It really is at the center of life here. Byline Mary Lou Aleskie, Howard L. Gilman ’44 Director of the Hopkins Center for the Arts | Attribution The Boston Globe Date 4/08/2022 In the News Looking Back on 50 Years of Making Beautiful Books 3/17/2022 Description Publisher David Godine ’66 is featured in a story about his new book, Godine at Fifty. His interest in making books started in a class with art professor Ray Nash, who in 1937 founded what is now known as the Book Arts Workshop. Logo Image Articles COVID, Begone. Bring on Cupid. Date 2/11/2022 Body Book Arts Workshop is reviving the art of handmade valentines. Image Thumbnail Photos Winter Carnival Posters Through the Years 2/09/2022 Description Designs show interests and popular culture of the times. Thumbnail Articles New Arts Initiative Funding Nine Inaugural Projects Date 2/03/2022 Body The arts-centric research will explore Asian identity, Black ecologies, and more. Image Thumbnail Articles Soo Sunny Park Creates New Work for the Smithsonian Date 1/26/2022 Body Studio art professor’s exhibit graces entrance of the Arts and Industries Building. Image Thumbnail Photos Dance Showcase: Lights, Leaping, and Action 12/09/2021 Description Student-led troupes and the Dartmouth Dance Ensemble rock the stage at the Hop. Thumbnail In the News Hood Adds Works from Souls Grown Deep Foundation 12/03/2021 Description The Hood Museum of Art is one of five university collections to receive works from the Souls Grown Deep Foundation, which advocates for equity and recognition for Black artists from the South. Logo Image Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube