arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Pause Be Extraordinary Here Undergraduate Studies Over 40 departments and programs constitute Dartmouth’s liberal arts core, which promotes critical thinking, creativity, and collaboration among our students. The liberal arts imperative informs every field of study and crosses departments, programs, and schools. Our students learn to ask bigger questions and apply more perspectives to the answers. They gain a deeper understanding of humanity and a broader view of what’s at stake for societies and throughout the world. See All Departments & Programs African & African American Studies Image Anthropology Image Art History Image Asian Societies, Cultures, & Languages Image Biological Sciences Image Chemistry Image Classics Image Cognitive Science Image Comparative Literature Image Computer Science Image Earth Sciences Image Economics Image Education Image English & Creative Writing Image Engineering Environmental Studies Image Film & Media Studies Image French & Italian Image Geography Image German Studies Image Government Image History Image Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Image Jewish Studies Image Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Image Linguistics Image Mathematics Image Middle Eastern Studies Image Music Image Native American & Indigenous Studies Image Philosophy Image Physics & Astronomy Image Psychological and Brain Sciences Image Quantitative Social Science Image Religion Image Russian Image Sociology Image Spanish & Portuguese Image Studio Art Image Theater Image Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Image Graduate and Professional Studies Image Geisel School of Medicine Image Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Image Thayer School of Engineering Image Tuck School of Business Latest News View News Image Thumbnail Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read More In the News The Commercialization of Juneteenth Backfires for Big Brands Description History professor Matthew Delmont says the new federal Juneteenth holiday is an opportunity to celebrate Black Americans who fought for freedom and equality but notes it is hard not to worry about it being “watered down or distorted.” Logo Image Photos Views From the Green: Sailing Through Spring Description From Lei Day to Barn Babies, May has a powerful pull. Thumbnail Articles Martin Luther King III Issues Call to Action Body The social justice activist warns that democracy “is very much on the ballot.” Image Thumbnail Quoted Quote What they’re trying to do is stop the clock on what counts as ‘canon.’ Byline Bethany Moreton, Professor of History | Attribution Salon Upcoming Events View Events 1 Jun Technigala, tech and design innovations built by students 2 Jun Outdoor yoga on Baker Lawn 2 Jun Workshop: Expressive Writing 4 Jun Met Opera in HD: “Hamlet Brett Dean” Image (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) The Call to Lead: A Campaign for Dartmouth Dartmouth is doubling down on its commitment to provide the financial support that will make every student’s education possible. Act Now Scholars Who Love to Teach The closeness of Dartmouth’s academic community and the proximity of its resources have a way of bringing individual students together with the scholar or researcher who can ignite an unquenchable curiosity. Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Soo Sunny Park “Sculpture is about conceiving an abstract idea and being willing to trust yourself so that you can bring your idea to life in the physical world.” See Park’s art Image Close-up of neon green, dichroic red, and gray plexiglass tiles in Expanded Present by Park during daytime. (Photo by Albert Ting) Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Brendan Nyhan “One of the most important things we can teach in a liberal arts education is how to be an effective writer.” Read about research by Nyhan and his students Image Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Feng Fu “If we really want to make an impact on the world we live in, if we are really trying to make the world a better place, then fundamentally, this becomes a morality problem, an ethics problem.” Read about Fu’s research Image Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Amie Thomasson “I’m extremely grateful to have the opportunity to do some focused thinking and writing, as I work on my project, a new book tentatively entitled ‘Rethinking Metaphysics.’ ” Read about Thomasson’s work Image Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) César Alvarez “What’s so incredible about art is that it actually expands the possible in your own mind. I’m trying in my work to cause empowerment around who we get to be, and how.” Read about Alvarez’s musical Image Left Right Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Go to slide 5 Connect With Us No matter where you roam, stay connected with @dartmouthcollege Instagram. Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Inspired. Be Yourself. You’ll bring unique talents and perspectives to our diverse, dynamic community. Wherever you’re from, you’ll fit right in. APPLY Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube