arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar News Media Broadcast Studios We apologize, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we are not currently accepting bookings, and the radio and TV studios will be unavailable until further notice. Dartmouth has broadcast-quality radio and television studios that are used primarily by members of the news media to conduct remote or in-person interviews with Dartmouth experts. Our studio facilities are available Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5:00 p.m, Monday to Friday and are managed by Communications staff members. Depending on staff availability, studios may also be booked after hours for Dartmouth-affiliated interviews. To book: Please email studiobooking@dartmouth.edu (this account is monitored regularly seven days a week) or call 603-646-3661. Television Dartmouth has partnered with VideoLink to provide reliable, responsive television shots via a ReadyCam® studio. This setup allows for both live broadcasts and taped segments. During each interview, VideoLink operates shots remotely, with a Dartmouth Communications staff member in the studio to assist the guest. TV STUDIO LOCATION Office of Communications 7 Lebanon Street, Suite 201 Hanover, N.H. 03755 Once you have booked the television studio with Dartmouth, you must call VideoLink at (617) 340-4300 to schedule the EIP. If VideoLink can accommodate this, the booking contact at Dartmouth will receive a confirmation email no later than 30 minutes prior to the live shot. FEES There is no studio fee for Dartmouth-affiliated faculty, staff, or students. (Please note that while Dartmouth does not charge for college-affiliated interviews, VideoLink applies its own fee for every live shot it operates in our studio.) $500 per hour for interviewees who are not Dartmouth-affiliated faculty, staff, or students, one hour minimum. STUDIO EQUIPMENT DETAILS This is an insert broadcast studio controlled remotely over EIP by VideoLink operators. Networks have the option of booking over our EIP or through LTN, a third-party transmission company. The system broadcasts in HD720, and can be up-converted or down-converted to the network’s preference. The studio is set up for a single talent shot, and is not recommended for a two-person shot, as the lighting was set for one person only. Live shots are built to be hands-off for the client. If troubleshooting is required, VideoLink may ask a Dartmouth employee to assist with looking at equipment involved in the system. Radio Dartmouth's radio studio can accommodate both live and recorded interviews and podcasts. The studio is managed during each interview by a 99Rock WFRD-FM engineer and a Communications staff member. RADIO STUDIO LOCATION 99Rock WFRD-FM 6176 Robinson Hall, 3rd Floor, Dartmouth College Hanover, N.H. 03755 FEES There is no studio fee for Dartmouth-affiliated faculty, staff, or students. Fees apply for interviews with non-Dartmouth guests as follows: One hour minimum: $225 per hour with a 30% discount for non-commercial broadcasters. Additional time billed in half-hour increments. Availability: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm, Monday to Friday. Call or email for after-hours rates and availability. An engineer is available to record sessions and to assist with ISDN, IP, codec. Connections included in rental fee. Internet Uploads: Process audio and upload to Internet: $25.00. Fiber to studio cost may be higher depending on volume. ISDN NUMBERS The radio station should call 99Rock WFRD-FM and send a mix-minus signal. There are multiple lines. Once the studio space is booked, we can connect you with our broadcasting director for the appropriate ISDN number and connection settings. RADIO STUDIO EQUIPMENT DETAILS Telos System's Zephyr: Supports the MPEG AAC, AAC-LD and CT-aacPlus, Layer-2, Layer-3 and G.722 coding standards in POTS and ISDN formats Telos Z/IP One The Telos Z/IP ONE combines RTP/UDP streaming capabilities with MPEG coding to deliver broadcast-quality audio over IP connections. Full POTS modern Comrex capabilities as well as the legacy field units Red Box & Blue Box LuciLIve capabilities ipDTL SIP connection capabilities Please review the following to determine your station’s technical needs. Our engineers will then provide the appropriate numbers for each option. OPTION A: WFRD ISDN 1: Contact us for number. Telos System's Xport supports MPEG AAC, AAC-LD and CT-aacPlus, Layer-2, Layer-3 and G.722 coding standards in POTS and ISDN formats. OPTION B: WFRD ISDN 2: Contact us for numbers. Telos Zephyr. OPTION C: Telos Z/IP The Telos Z/IP ONE combines RTP/UDP streaming capabilities with MPEG coding to deliver broadcast-quality audio over IP connections. The ZIP/One is located at Telos’ SIP server; contact us for address. However, we've had several occasions (mostly from overseas and/on Northern European Continent) where we were unable to connect. We have a default by direct: contact us for address, as an RTP push stream—the unit will respond on port 9151 with G.722 { your Bric (as an example) would ‘dial’ our address }. The unit is presently at 64kbps, AAC-ELD, stereo (medium to very good quality). We can upgrade that easily at our end up to 320 or higher. This is quite successful with LuciLITE or /Pro. ZIP’s can connect. OPTION D: Full POTS modem Comrex capabilities (Matrix) as well as the legacy field units Comrex Red Box & Blue Box. Contact us for number. OPTION E: We also use and have LuciLIve capabilities. Many of our contributors have the iPhone or Android app and do remotes from time to time back to Telos Z/IP One. Contact us for address. OPTION F: ipDTL SIP connection capabilities. Contact us for ipDTL logon, (call in and we'll open it up for acceptance). We have several BBC auto-answer connections already programmed into ipDTL. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube