arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Accessibility Dartmouth is committed to ensuring that its programs, services, and activities are accessible to all. Disability-related accommodations are delivered through a network of established programs and offices that serve undergraduate, graduate, and professional school students, faculty, staff, visitors, and guests. Accommodation needs and inquiries about accessibility assistance are welcome. Please see the following listing for the Dartmouth resources available to assist students, faculty, staff, visitors, and guests with disabilities. ADA/504 COMPLIANCE PROGRAM The ADA/504 Coordinator (ADAC) in the Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity (IDE) ensures compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and other federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to persons with disabilities. The ADAC oversees and implements a campus-wide compliance program, including managing all disability-based grievance processes related to the provision of disability-related accommodations, delivering campus-wide disability compliance training, promoting physical and digital access enhancements, and providing effective leadership to promote cross-divisional collaboration and consistency. Contact: Linda Sullivan, ADA/504 Coordinator (603) 646-3920 | ada.ide@dartmouth.edu | Linda.M.Sullivan@Dartmouth.edu Employment Accommodations Employment accommodations are overseen by the IDE Employment Accommodations Coordinator who receives requests for workplace accommodations and recommends reasonable accommodations for faculty, staff, and student employees, and applicants for employment. The Employment Accommodations Coordinator also serves as a resource to departments and programs in providing accommodations to visitors and guests. This position works with partners across the institution to promote an accessible and inclusive working environment. Contact: Linda Sullivan, ADA/504 Coordinator (603) 646-3920 | Linda.M.Sullivan@Dartmouth.edu Student Accommodations Accommodations for prospective and enrolled students with disabilities are supported through specific programs within the undergraduate, graduate, and professional schools. The following offices are the first point of contact for applicants for admissions and currently enrolled students to inquire about disability-related accommodations and begin the interactive process. College of Arts and Sciences Student Accessibility Services (SAS) supports undergraduate students with disabilities including 5th year (B.E.) Thayer School of Engineering students. Contact: (603) 646-9900 | student.accessibility.services@dartmouth.edu Links Student Accessibility Services Geisel School of Medicine The Geisel School of Medicine supports medical students with disabilities and other learning needs through the Geisel Office of Student Accessibility Services (GSAS). Contact: William H. Eidtson, Director of Learning Support and Student Accessibility Services (603) 650-1125 | william.eidtson@dartmouth.edu Links Geisel Office of Student Accessibility Services Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Accommodations for Guarini graduate students are determined and provided through the Assistant Dean of Graduate Studies. Contact: Gary Hutchins, Registrar and Assistant Dean of Graduate Studies (603) 646-2107 | gary.hutchins@dartmouth.edu Links Resources for Students with Disabilities Thayer School of Engineering Accommodations for Thayer graduate students are determined and provided through the Assistant Dean for Academic and Student Affairs. Contact: Holly Wilkinson, Assistant Dean for Academic and Student Affairs (603) 646-3483 | holly.wilkinson@dartmouth.edu Links Resources for Students with Disabilities Tuck School of Business Accommodations for Tuck graduate students are determined and provided through the Assistant Dean for Academic and Student Affairs. Contact: Sally Jaeger, Associate Dean, MBA Program (603) 646-2190 | sally.o.jaeger@tuck.dartmouth.edu Links Resources for Students with Disabilities The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice Accommodations for TDI graduate students are determined and provided through the Director of Admissions. Contact: Courtney Theroux, Director of Admissions (603) 650-1530 | courtney.l.theroux@dartmouth.edu Links Resources for Students with Disabilities Visitor and Guests Requests for accommodations to participate in a Dartmouth-sponsored program, service or activity are made directly to the event host or sponsor. The IDE Employment Accommodations Coordinator serves as a resource to departments and programs in providing accommodations to visitors and guests as does the ADAC. Contact: Program host/ sponsor or ada.ide@dartmouth.edu Website Accessibility If you encounter any accessibility issues with a Dartmouth Website, please contact us using our Site or Accessibility Feedback Form. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube