arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Admissions The Student Experience See Views From the Green Image Caption (Photo by Robert Gill) Explore. Engage. Excel. Deans and other advisors are here to help you make the most of your college experience, both on and off campus. Picture yourself here, stepping into the role of researcher, bonding with your professor over coffee, exploring new intellectual frontiers, and thriving in a diverse community. Want to change the world? We’ll give you the tools and inspiration to make that happen. See the latest photos of life on campus. Fact / Stat 4,556 Text Undergraduates enrolled in 2021 Fact / Stat 68 Text Countries represented by the Class of 2024 81% Students who pursue internships 2100+ Undergraduate courses offered each year Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Image A Flexible Study Plan Dartmouth’s year-round academic calendar of four 10-week terms allows you to decide when to study on campus—and when to use time away from Hanover to gain work experience, engage in service, be an intern, or study abroad. Image Majors and Minors Build the academic program that excites you intellectually; combine one of more than 60 majors with your pick of minors, fine-tune a major with another discipline, or design a special major around your own passion. Image Participate in Research Under the mentorship of a Dartmouth professor, you can contribute to the creation of new knowledge through hands-on research. Meet the Class of 2026 Every state in the United States is represented in the Class of 2026. Among those from the U.S., 53% identify as BIPOC. Tying the Class of 2025, 17% are first generation students. The United Kingdom, Canada, China, and India are the top international cohorts. Internships and Careers At Dartmouth, you’ll have opportunities to gain real-world experience that prepares you for success after college. Advising Explore, Engage, Excel: Deans and other advisors are here to help you make the most of your Dartmouth experience. Apply to Dartmouth Tell us about yourself in your own way. We want to hear about your lives, not just your grades and scores. After Dartmouth: Alumni Careers The possibilities are endless, and the network spans the globe. Image Summer at Dartmouth Study in the sun. With Dartmouth’s quarterly academic calendar, our campus and classrooms are buzzing year-round. Second-year undergraduates are in residence for sophomore summer; researchers keep the labs, studios, and libraries bustling with activity; and visitors take in the lush beauty and full schedule of a Hanover summer. Image Study Abroad and Off-Campus Dartmouth’s distinctive off-campus programs offer more than 30 options for studying other cultures and disciplines in depth. Image Libraries The extensive print and digital collections of Dartmouth’s libraries serve as vital extensions of the campus’s teaching and research facilities. With subject-specific guidance and support from Dartmouth’s librarians, intellectual curiosity is rewarded here. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube