arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar For You: News Media Browse a collection of resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, facts, and more. For all media inquiries, contact Media Relations at 603-646-3661 or communications@dartmouth.edu. Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Latest news View News Articles Geisel Researchers to Share $4 Million Grant for Dementia Research Body The team will study how to improve “triadic” interactions between patients living with dementia, their care partners, and their clinicians. Image Thumbnail Geisel Articles Geisel School of Medicine Celebrates the Class of 2022 Body The 99 graduates gathered on Saturday to mark the close of their academic studies and the beginning of their careers as physicians. Image Thumbnail Geisel Articles John Cho ’22 Explores Identity in Politics Body Texas native is considering a career in voting rights law. Image Thumbnail More Resources Image Broadcast Studios Use our broadcast-quality radio and television studios to conduct remote or in-person interviews with our experts. Filming and Photography policies Campus Access Request Form Image Faculty Experts Faculty and administrators are available to comment on a variety of topics and current events. Hot Topics Directory Image About Dartmouth Dartmouth educates the most promising students and prepares them for a lifetime of learning and of responsible leadership through a faculty dedicated to teaching and the creation of knowledge. Leadership Office of Communications Fact Book Dartmouth Together COVID-19 Photos for Media Browse high-resolution images of Dartmouth’s leadership and campus. For help or to request other images, contact the Office of Communications at communications@dartmouth.edu. Image Campus in Winter Image Campus in Spring Image Campus in Summer Image Campus in Fall Image Dartmouth Leadership Communications Teams Office of Communications Advancement Communications Alumni Relations Dartmouth Athletics Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health System Dartmouth-Hitchcock Norris Cotton Cancer Center The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice (TDI) Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Hopkins Center for the Arts Hood Museum of Art Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube