arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar More news Articles The Fierce Advocacy of James Wright News subtitle A new book, “War and American Life,” continues his work lifting up those who serve. Image Image President Emeritus James Wright takes a moment to talk with visitors in his Hanover office. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) 11/09/2021 More Reading From Service to Student Life: Veterans Discuss the Transition to College Body President Emeritus James Wright had already submitted the final draft of his forthcoming book, War and American Life: Reflections on Those Who Serve and Sacrifice, when the chaotic final withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan unfolded over 11 days at the end of August. “After Labor Day, I wrote the publisher and said, ‘I think I need to have some of this back. I want to revise something,’ ” says Wright, a Marine Corps veteran, historian, and president of Dartmouth from 1998 to 2009. “I was able just in the last few weeks of September to reflect again on the war in Afghanistan, and I was able to think once more about my own experience with some of the veterans, and also, my perspective as a historian and somebody who’s lived through this for a number of years.” Image James Wright’s two recent books are shown with a cover proof for his forthcoming work, War and American Life. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Former trustee Nate Fick ’99, a Marine Corps veteran who served in Afghanistan, has said on many occasions that James Wright is very probably the only Marine lance corporal to become a college president. Wright was also the first in his family to graduate from college. He went on to earn a PhD in American history, became an Ivy League president, and remains a fierce advocate for veterans in higher education. Quote The work that President Wright does for veterans cannot be overstated. Attribution Ryan Irving ’24, a Marine Corps veteran who served in Afghanistan He was an early advocate for the Post 9/11 GI Bill and he worked with U.S. senators to develop the Yellow Ribbon Program, which encourages private colleges and universities to cover additional costs beyond what the Veterans Administration would pay for veterans’ education. “The work that President Wright does for veterans cannot be overstated,” says Student Veterans Association President Ryan Irving ’24, a Marine Corps veteran who served in Afghanistan. “President Wright was the first leader of an Ivy League school to openly encourage veterans attending their schools or their programs. His work even went further. Once you got them in these schools, his work with the Yellow Ribbon Program allowed them to come free of any financial barriers.” Wright will speak in Filene Auditorium on Thursday at 5:30 p.m. The program, Veterans Today and the Wars in Which They Have Served, is hosted by the Nelson A. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy and the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding. Brandeis University Press is the publisher of Wright’s forthcoming book, War and American Life: Reflections on Those Who Serve and Sacrifice. (Spring 2022) Written by Bill Platt Share thisFacebookTwitterEmail News contact William Platt can be reached at william.c.platt@dartmouth.edu. Categories Campus Society & Culture Tags Veterans Stories Veterans Staff Alumni James E. Wright Photos Honoring Their Service and Sacrifice 5/31/2022 Description Dartmouth celebrates veterans on Memorial Day. Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth Aires Celebrate 75th Anniversary Date 5/27/2022 Body More than 120 Dartmouth Aires alumni, and the current Aires, joined forces for a concert, with the “Alma Mater” captured on video. Image Thumbnail Alumni Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube