arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Campus Life Student Groups & Activities Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Expand your limits. Write for a literary magazine, work on a political cause, play in a musical ensemble, organize a backcountry ski trip. As a Dartmouth student, you’ll have every opportunity to involve yourself in an extraordinarily rich range of student clubs and activities that connect you with the community and with your strengths. The Student Experience Athletics and Recreation Collis Center for Student Involvement From grabbing a quick meal in the Café to attending student-sponsored activities, the Collis Center is your home away from home. Dartmouth Outing Club The largest and oldest collegiate outing club in the country, the DOC sponsors outdoor recreation and environmental stewardship. House Communities All students are members of one of six house communities, each of which is based in a cluster of residential buildings with an affiliated faculty residence. Living Learning Communities The Dartmouth Founded in 1799, The Dartmouth is the first collegiate newspaper in America. Clubs and Organizations Undergraduate students manage more than 160 groups and organizations. Greek Letter Organizations and Societies The relationships developed in a fraternity, sorority, or co-ed Greek organization can be a meaningful and rewarding aspect of the Dartmouth experience. Arts Across Campus Hopkins Center for the Arts One of the nation’s foremost campus-based arts centers, the “Hop” presents a broad array of world-class music, dance, theater, and film programs. Performing groups offer students the chance to participate in choral music, jazz, gospel, pop, symphonic music, wind band music, and contemporary dance. Students can join workshops with hands-on projects in wood, metal/jewelry and clay. Hood Museum of Art Housing one of the oldest and largest (more than 70,000 works) American university art collections, the Hood facilitates meaningful encounters with art for the campus and greater communities. Public Art on Campus A distinguished collection of works of public art grace Dartmouth’s campus, including Ellsworth Kelly’s Dartmouth Panels, a major site-specific piece. Arts Directory A comprehensive list of arts-related organizations, programs, and opportunities at Dartmouth. Graduate Organizations Geisel School of Medicine Student Organizations Professional organizations, community service groups, and student government offer extracurricular options for Geisel students. Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Student Organizations From tango to ice hockey to community service, the student clubs and organizations at the graduate school cover a wide array of interests. Thayer School Student, Professional, Social, and Service Organizations Thayer School of Engineering students participate in robot clubs, Dartmouth Humanitarian Engineering, formula hybrid racing, and more. Tuck School of Business Student Activities and Clubs Tuck students run more than 70 groups, including the popular all-ability, coed Tuck Tripod Hockey League. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube