arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Dartmouth News Image Thumbnail Caption President Emeritus James Wright has just published his third book on the veteran experience, “War and American Life.” (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Articles Vox Populi: Honoring Those in the ‘Boots on the Ground’ Body A Memorial Day essay from James Wright’s new book, “War and American Life.” Read Article Earliest Date to Latest Date Clear filtersSearch & Filter Close Content types Expand Article In the News Quoted Content Photos Video Categories Expand Arts & Humanities Campus Events Global Science & Health Society & Culture Voices Submit Search by Keyword Submit Search by Tags To search by tags, enter your search criteria and select from the drop down. To search for multiple topics, separate tags by a comma, for example: “arts, academics." Nelson A. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy and the Social Sciences Articles Martin Luther King III Issues Call to Action Date 5/23/2022 Body The social justice activist warns that democracy “is very much on the ballot.” Image Thumbnail Quoted Quote While two years into this pandemic, judicial deference to public health officials may be waning, future crises are likely to somewhat reset the clock. Byline Herschel Nachlis, research assistant professor of government | Attribution Healthline Date 4/20/2022 Quoted Quote As much as we wouldn’t like to believe it, we still need a society-wide approach to the pandemic, especially to protect those who can’t benefit fully from vaccination. Byline Anne Sosin ’02, Policy Fellow, Nelson A. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy | Attribution The New York Times Date 4/19/2022 Articles Former Secretary of State Bill Gardner to Speak at Rocky Date 4/04/2022 Body The longtime protector of the N.H. primary named Perkins Bass Distinguished Visitor. Image Thumbnail Articles Nikole Hannah-Jones to Speak at the Hopkins Center Date 3/31/2022 Body “The 1619 Project” creator will be joined by students and faculty at the event. Image Thumbnail Articles The Dartmouth Olympic Tradition Continues Date 2/01/2022 Body The Winter Games, which begin Friday, include eight competitors with Big Green ties. Image Thumbnail Articles Dartmouth Was an Early Stop in Dole’s Presidential Runs Date 12/06/2021 Body Political observers say the senator was a fierce conservative who welcomed debate. Image Thumbnail Videos Greg Garre ’87 and Neal Katyal ’91 Unpack the High Court 11/03/2021 Description At Dartmouth, the past solicitors general share insights on the U.S. Supreme Court. Video Thumbnail Articles Policy Research Shop: One Day, Two States, Four Hearings Date 6/02/2021 Body Students in the Class of 1964 Policy Research Shop notched a first in the program’s 16 years of working with legislative policymakers by... Image Thumbnail Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 … Next page > Last page Last » Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Webform You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form. First Name Next 01/05 Image Events Find an array of in-person or virtual happenings at Dartmouth. Image Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Information Dartmouth’s plan to bring students back to campus emphasizes the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff and includes vaccination requirements and ongoing COVID-19 testing. Image For News Media Resources for journalists, including faculty experts, photos, and facts. Image Subscribe to Dartmouth News Receive our most recent stories, photos, and videos in your email daily or once a week. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube