arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Campus Life Athletics and Recreation Image (Photo by Rob Migliacco) Get moving. You’ll find plenty of motivation to participate in Dartmouth’s athletics—more than 75 percent of undergraduate students are involved in sports. Dartmouth boasts national and Ivy League champions among its 35 Division I varsity teams and 33 club sports. Student Groups & Activities Dartmouth Athletics Image Varsity Sports Keep up with the latest news about Big Green teams at Dartmouth Big Green. Admission to all regular season contests is free for Dartmouth students Image Club Sports Dartmouth’s 33 club sports range from purely recreational to nationally competitive. Image Intramural Sports Form a team and participate in an intramural league with undergraduate and graduate students. Physical Education From dance to martial arts, check out the more than 80 classes that will satisfy Dartmouth’s three-credit physical education requirement for undergraduates. Fitness and Wellness Classes From ballroom dance to strength training, “FLIP” classes are open to the campus and local communities. Athletic Facilities Dartmouth’s facilities are among the finest in the Ivy League and include a skating rink, squash and racquetball courts, two indoor swimming pools, a sailing facility, and numerous multi-purpose spaces. Zimmerman Fitness Center This 16,000-square-foot facility houses state-of-the-art equipment. Memberships and day passes are available to the Dartmouth community and the public. Boss Tennis Center and Gordon Pavilion The award-winning Alexis Boss Tennis Center and Alen Gordon Pavilion is open to the public and includes six indoor courts as well as locker rooms. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube