arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar Campus Life You’ll Love Being Surrounded by Nature See Photos from the Green Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) You’ll become part of a close-knit community. Walk, bike, or ride the shuttle around campus. Enjoy live performances at the Hopkins Center for the Arts. Stroll through the Hood Museum of Art. Harvest veggies from our organic farm. You’re always near friends and faculty. In a peaceful New England setting routinely ranked as one of the nation’s most beautiful campuses, we live where we learn. From the first moment you step foot on our tree-lined Green, you’ll develop close, enduring connections through intellectual discovery, the arts, community service, athletics, and more. Fact / Stat 1,310 Text Students who lived in residence halls in 2020-21 Fact / Stat 160 Text Clubs and organizations managed by students Image Student Groups and Activities After classes, there’s still a lot of learning—and leading—to do. Student activities are boundless. Discover Opportunities Summer at Dartmouth Image Health and Wellness In order to maintain a healthy lifestyle we encourage students to think about their social, mental, and physical wellness. Image Sustainability Green by choice. From what we study to how we live, sustainability impacts every aspect of life at Dartmouth. Dartmouth’s Energy Future Dartmouth Organic Farm Green Commute House Communities All students are members of one of six house communities, each of which is based in a cluster of residential buildings with an affiliated faculty residence. Living Learning Communities Center for Social Impact From helping to maintain the Appalachian Trail, which runs through campus, to serving dinners to people experiencing homelessness, you’ll find ways to transform lives. Including your own. Internships and fellowships Educational service trips Social impact practicums Geisel community service committee Appalachian Trail Athletics About 25% of students participate in intercollegiate sports, and 75% take part in other kinds of recreation, including skiing on our very own mountain. Varsity Athletics Calendar Fitness & Lifestyle Improvement (FLIP) Image When the Baker Bells play the ‘Alma Mater’ every day, you know you’re home. Learn More Image Events See events and activities happening on campus every day—guest lectures, student presentations, performances, arts events, athletic contests, and more. View Events Hood Museum of Art Hopkins Center for the Arts Image Live Views of the Green Catch a glimpse of life on the crossroads of campus via our Hanover Inn webcam. Robinson Hall webcam Hanover Inn webcam Baker Tower webcam Image Caption (Photo by Ryan McCann ’22) Image Caption (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Image Caption Student practicing his saxophone while sitting on a stump outside the Shattuck Observatory. (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Caption It was colder than normal, but friends could still catch up outside on the early spring day. (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Caption (Photo by Robert Gill) Image Caption (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Image Caption (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Left right Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube