arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar More news Articles Computer Science Has a Genuine Rock Star: Xia Zhou News subtitle International computer society gives the associate professor its “RockStar Award.” Image Image “I am truly honored to join the ranks of other RockStars,” says Associate Professor of Computer Science Xia Zhou. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) 3/25/2019 Body Associate Professor of Computer Science Xia Zhou is a rock star, and now she has an award to prove it. The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), the largest educational and scientific computing society in the world, has awarded Zhou the ACM SIGMOBILE’s RockStar Award. SIGMOBILE is the ACM’s organizational division “dedicated to all things mobile.” The ACM SIGMOBILE’s RockStar award committee selected Zhou “in recognition of her outstanding early-career contributions and impact on our field: for multidisciplinary research examining unconventional wireless spectrum frequencies to build next-generation wireless systems and spearheading the field of ‘visible light sensing,’ which turns the ubiquitous light around us into a powerful medium that integrates data communication and human behavioral sensing. The RockStar Award is our community’s acknowledgement of the depth, impact, and novelty of Xia’s research,” writes Edward Knightly, chair of the award committee. Professor Dan Rockmore, associate dean for the sciences, says the award is well deserved. “Professor Zhou is an extraordinarily creative computer scientist who is continually looking to push the boundaries of mobile communication,” he says. “This award is a testament to her place in the top rank of the field.” “I am truly honored to join the ranks of other RockStars,” says Zhou. “I sincerely thank the committee and the SIGMOBILE community for the award. I could not have made it without the continuing support and inspirations from my mentors, colleagues, and students. They are the real stars to me.” The RockStar award is the latest in a series of accolades Zhou has earned. Her co-authored paper on a new wireless communication technology won the “best video” award at “MobiCom 2016: The 22nd Annual International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking.” Known as “DarkLight,” this technology employs short, almost imperceptible light pulses to transmit information. The research demonstrated for the first time how visible light could be used to transmit data even when the light appears to be extremely dim or nonexistent. In 2017, Zhou won a Sloan Research Fellowship in computer science, one of the 126 two-year, $60,000 fellowships to be awarded that year. Nominated by fellow scientists, Sloan fellows are selected on the basis of their independent research accomplishments, creativity, and potential to become leaders in their fields, according to the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Most recently, her work was highlighted in the National Science Foundation-sponsored video “Using Light to Move Wireless Data Faster.” The RockStar award will be presented during the opening ceremony of ACM MobiCom 2019 meeting in Mexico. Zhou has been invited to speak at the meeting. Written by Joseph Blumberg Share thisFacebookTwitterEmail Categories Science & Health Tags Department of Computer Science Faculty Research Science Technology In the News An ‘Acoustic Camera’ Shows Joining the Right Band Boosts a Frog’s Sex Appeal 6/01/2022 Description Associate Professor of Biological Sciences Ryan Calsbeek credits departmental colleague Hannah ter Hofstede for telling him about the utility of an acoustic camera, which Calsbeek used to study the mating calls of wood frogs. Logo Image In the News The Commercialization of Juneteenth Backfires for Big Brands 5/31/2022 Description History professor Matthew Delmont says the new federal Juneteenth holiday is an opportunity to celebrate Black Americans who fought for freedom and equality but notes it is hard not to worry about it being “watered down or distorted.” Logo Image Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube