Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Clark Honors College Search Search Site Navigation Admissions & Financial Aid Visit Us Admissions Requirements How to Apply Residential Life Tuition & Financial Aid AP, IB, and Transfer Credits Transfer Students International Students Admissions FAQs Academics Advising Signature Programs New Students People Community Equity & Inclusion Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Clark Honors College Main navigation Admissions & Financial Aid Academics Advising Signature Programs New Students People Community Equity & Inclusion Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions & Financial Aid How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Differential Tuition Merit Scholarships Need-Based Scholarships Diversity Scholarships Admissions FAQ Application Timeline UO Virtual Visits Duck Preview Are We Right For You? Do you feel energized by new ideas? Do you find yourself always wanting to dig deeper into a topic? Do you care deeply about social problems and want to work with others to find solutions? At Clark Honors College, you will join a community of students and faculty who are brimming with thoughts, opinions, and approaches, but are also eager to listen to others, consider facts, and grow. Our students challenge and embrace opportunities to consider scholarship, engage in criticism and analysis, and arrive at research-based solutions. In CHC classes, you work together in and out of the classroom to share experiences and exchange perspectives. Admissions into the Clark Honors College is highly competitive. Each year, more than 4,000 students apply for a limited number of spots in our incoming class. Admissions looks for evidence of academic motivation, creativity, and critical thinking in each application, valuing diverse experiences, backgrounds, and interests. Our success, and yours, is in the mix of how our students come together and join one another on academic and intellectual adventures. Admissions Requirements First-Year Students International Students Transfer Students The CHC is "Just Right" At the CHC, you enjoy the resources of a major research university, like a prestigious and growing environmental studies program, zebra fish labs, innovation incubators, and a 3+3 law school program. You also receive the personalized attention of a small liberal arts college: classes in the CHC are capped at 19 students, but average 15 students per class, which are always taught by professors with a passionate interest in their fields and a desire to teach material in new and engaging ways. At CHC, our students have access to signature teaching programs, like the Calderwood Seminars for Public Writing in which students take academic subjects and reconstruct the information for a public audience; the Inside/Out Program in which CHC students and incarcerated people learn together, side by side; the Mentored Research Program that pairs students and professors to work on in-depth research projects; the Internship Funding Program that supports students with unpaid internships so that no great opportunity is missed because of lack of financial return; and the Knight Campus Undergraduate Scholars Program, which awards  two mentored research opportunities for second- and third-year CHC students with $8,000 in support. Of course, you will write a thesis—the capstone experience of the CHC—an undertaking that hones your research and writing skills and allows you to dig even deeper into a topic about which you are passionate. CHC theses can lead to career outcomes and serve as the springboard for graduate school research. Does any of this strike a chord? If so, the Clark Honors College may well be the place for you. We look forward to reading your application. How to Apply Curriculum Overview "I wouldn’t be here, with a thesis successfully defended and submitted, without the guidance of my advisors. They believed in the merits of my research, which at times I couldn’t see myself. Barring personal motivation and ability, I think a good committee is the difference between a bad thesis and a good one and a good one from a great one. Go to those office hours and make those connections: you’ll be thankful for it, I’m sure." — Lauren Jin, Class of 2021 "My four years in the CHC prepared me for the fast-paced and competitive world of graduate school. The CHC's liberal arts approach instilled in me the importance of academic discipline and writing. I learned how to write on a higher academic level which benefited me in the long run. Because I wrote and defended an honors thesis, it made me a more competitive applicant when it came to graduate school as other incoming undergraduates who may not have had the same experience of conducting their own original research. This opened doors for me to apply to top PhD. anthropology programs. Out of the four schools I applied to, I was accepted into three, fully funded!" — Jyhreh Johnson, Class of 2021 “I am deeply interested in mass-incarceration and often find myself questioning common representations of incarcerated individuals as “criminals,” “murderers,” or “bad people.” Little did I know I would have similar experiences in other CHC courses, through which passionate professors offered alternative insights that helped me develop ideas of my own. Consequently, I credit the CHC for the confident, well-rounded, and independent student I am today.” — Claire Warner, Class of 2024 Investing in Your Future at CHC The price tag on your college education does not necessarily guarantee its quality. In the Clark Honors College, you get the small, private liberal arts experience at a public university price. Still, figuring out how to pay for college is an important consideration. We make it easy for CHC students to take advantage of all the scholarship and financial aid resources available to them. Costs & Financial Aid More than 90% of our latest incoming class received financial- and merit-based scholarships which include: Stamps Scholarship (Oregon residents and non-residents) Presidential (Oregon residents only) Summit (Oregon residents and non-residents) Apex (Oregon residents and non-residents) Diversity Excellence (Oregon residents and non-residents) PathwayOregon (Oregon residents) We'd Love To Meet You! Come to Eugene, Oregon and visit us—right now! You don’t even need to leave your chair. Request Information Take a Tour or Sit in on a Class! Additional Resources University Admissions Online Application Student Orientation Financial Aid & Scholarships University Housing Admissions FAQ CLARK HONORS COLLEGE Alumni Invest in CHC Faculty Opportunities Newsletter Sign-up Visit Us FRONT DESK HOURS 8:30am - 5:00pm Monday - Friday CAMPUS TOOLS Webmail Canvas Duckweb One Stop Student Resources UO COVID Response CHC on Twitter Robert D. Clark Honors College 1293 University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403-1293 Office: Chapman Hall P: 541-346-5414 F: 541-346-0125 Contact Us honors@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.