Skip to content Honors Program Websites Honors Thesis Civic Home Honors Thesis Civic About Renée Crown Honors Staff & Core Faculty Donate to Honors Admissions Joining Honors Current SU Students High School Applicants Transfer Applicants Advising FAQ – Advising Chart Your Course Through Honors Good Standing in Honors Course Loads & Registration Academic Integrity Student Code of Conduct Writing Help Off Campus Study Honors Grants Academics Requirements Honors Courses Contract Courses Research and Funding Development Grants Study Abroad Funding Internship Funding Thesis Funding SOURCE Funding Faculty Virtual Teaching Resources For Faculty Teaching Class Rooms & Schedules The Honors Van Alumni Events Student Community Honors Advisory Board Honors Ambassadors Honors Pre-Health Society CORONAVIRUS UPDATES: For the latest updates on university operations and response to COVID-19 click here Honors News A Joyful Convocation Celebrates Honors Graduates Posted in Announcements, Awards, Event, honors, Honors Faculty, Recognition A Joyful Convocation Celebrates Honors Graduates Members of the Honors community, Honors core faculty, esteemed deans and family and friends happily celebrated the graduation of nearly 170 Honors graduates in the class of 2022 on… Read More ... Ice Cream Sundae Bar Posted in Event, Students Ice Cream Sundae Bar Come join Honors on the last day of classes for an Ice Cream Sundae Bar! Wednesday, May 4, 2022 from 11AM to 2PM Atrium outside 306 Bowne Hall Read More ... Four Honors Students/Alum Named Fulbright Recipients Posted in Uncategorized Four Honors Students/Alum Named Fulbright Recipients Current Honors Seniors Gretchen Coleman and Alyssa Grzesiowksi were recently named 2022 recipients of Fulbright U.S. Student Program awards. In addition, two Honors alumni were named: Anna Poe ’20,… Read More ... Burak Receives Chancellor’s Forever Orange Award Posted in Announcements, Awards, honors, Honors Faculty, Recognition Burak Receives Chancellor’s Forever Orange Award The Chancellor’s Forever Orange Award is conferred on individual students, faculty or staff who—by virtue of extraordinary hard work, good values and commitment to excellence—embody the best of Syracuse… Read More ... Can Responsible Journalism Shape Climate Change? Posted in Funding, honors, Honors Faculty, Recognition, Student Projects, Students, Thesis Can Responsible Journalism Shape Climate Change? For his Honors thesis, Gaurav Shetty (journalism and international relations double major) is studying how the power of journalism can produce clarity in our understanding of climate change, and… Read More ... Theoharis Examines School Equity, Pandemic Parenting Posted in Announcements, honors, Honors Faculty, Recognition, Uncategorized Theoharis Examines School Equity, Pandemic Parenting Honors Core Faculty George Theoharis is co-editor with Rebecca Lowenhaupt of the recently published book, Parenting in the Pandemic: The collision of school, work, and life at home, published… Read More ... A Day at the MET Posted in Announcements, Courses, honors, Honors Faculty, Students, Uncategorized Honors Class Visits MET Professor Jim Watts and students in the Honors class Writing, Scripture Law visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art (MET) in New York City in early April. Students have been studying the… Read More ... Students Tell Their Stories Walking Posted in Civic Engagement, Courses, honors, Honors Faculty, Student Projects, Students, Uncategorized Students Tell Their Stories Walking Tell Your Story Walking is a collection of creative work by Syracuse University honors students and alumni, curated by current honors students. Guided by Honors instructor Jeffrey Pepper Rogers, Tell Your… Read More ... 1 2 3 … 80 Next » Honors Funding Opportunities In the Honors Program we are dedicated to supporting our students in their research endeavors, study abroad, and their overall professional development. Through our generous donors and supporters, we have the privilege of extending these opportunities to students in the Renée Crown University Honors Program. If you are a student and would like to attend a conference, professional training, or a program that would help you get ahead in your career, consider applying for an Honors grant. If you are planning to study abroad and could use some extra funding to help defray travel costs, you may be eligible for an Honors grant to support your academic and professional development! Learn More and Apply Need help? Come See Us! Instructions for Making an Advising Appointment in Orange Success: Go Donate to Honors Archives Alumni News Student News Events Find Honors The Honors Program is located at: 306 Bowne Hall Syracuse University Syracuse, NY 13244 315.443.2759 honors@syr.edu Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Get in Touch with Honors 315.443.2759 306 Bowne Hall, Syracuse University honors@syr.edu Popular Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Find People (Directory) Academic Departments Schools & Colleges Sitemap Search Syracuse Contacts Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Website Feedback Make a Gift Login MySlice Blackboard Student Email Faculty & Staff Email © 2020 Renée Crown University Honors Program. All Rights Reserved.