Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Oklahoma State University The Honors College Main Menu In this section About Us Community Honors Credits Outreach Info for Current Students Faculty Future Students Broader. Deeper. Different. Who We AreHelping students realize their intellectual and personal potential. The Honors College at Oklahoma State University is a unique, immersive educational opportunity. We are committed to a high-quality, enhanced intellectual experience for students from diverse backgrounds. The Honors College provides a living/learning environment that fosters a strong sense of community. We seek to challenge students in dynamic ways, encourage non-traditional learning experiences, and support students' personal and professional development. About Us Welcome to Honors! "An honors education is defined as a broader, deeper, and different education, and that is precisely what we hope to give you during your time as an honors student. The Honors College at Oklahoma State University is a place for people who are intellectually curious, who want something different out of their education, and who want to go beyond the daily and mundane." -Dr. Keith Garbutt, Dean of the Honors College Why Honors? Forget your high school AP classes. This isn't like that. Our goal is to provide students all of the benefits of a small, liberal arts education, while also offering the vast resources of a large, land-grant institution within the Big XII. Honors classes are designed to be engaging and discussion-based, and our top teaching faculty are encouraged to present material in new and interesting ways. The classroom can be an exciting place when full of motivated and intellectually curious students. Why Honors? Our College Advantages Honors College students enjoy a number of fringe benefits for their participation, including priority enrollment, small class sizes, the option to live in honors housing, additional scholarship opportunities and more. Awards The Honors College Degree is the highest institutional academic achievement that an undergraduate student can be awarded. Student Stories Hear from some of our very own Honors students about how their experiences have helped shape them. How to Apply There is a place for every type of student in Honors. The Honors College currently has students majoring in over 175 different academic disciplines. We recognize that every student's journey is unique and offer multiple paths for admission into Honors. Eligibility Information Apply Now Student Successes Our students earn recognition as Fulbright, Truman, Goldwater and Gates Cambridge Scholars. Alexandria Bias Bias was awarded a 2022 Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship, the most prestigious undergraduate scholarship in natural sciences, mathematics, and engineering in the nation. She conducted research in multiple chemistry, physics, and egineering labs as a Niblack Research Scholar. Kayla Dunn Dunn received a Fulbright U.S. Student Program award for the 2021-2022 academic year from the U.S. Department of State and the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. She will teach English in La Rioja, Spain, the same nation where she completed a study abroad program. Adrienne Blakey Blakey received a Truman Scholarship, the premier U.S. graduate fellowship for those pursuing careers as public service leaders. She has used her research in combination with communication skills to serve as an advocate for agricultural research. Josh Anadu Anadu won a Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship, the preeminent undergraduate award for outstanding students who seek research careers in the natural sciences, mathematics and engineering. Anadu worked in multiple science labs at OSU and participated in a National Science Foundation project at the University of Texas. Blake Bartlett Bartlett also received a Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship. He has been both a CEAT Scholar and a Freshman Research Scholar, and he won a Wentz Research Scholarship for his work in OSU’s Systems Biomedicine and Pharmaceutics Lab. Ashley Gin Gin, a Goldwater Scholarship winner, has worked in a biomedical research lab at the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation as a member of the Fleming Scholars Program. She also participated in the 2019 Cambridge Scholars Program, studying health care systems of the United States and United Kingdom at the University of Cambridge. Collin Thornton Thornton, who received a Goldwater Scholarship, engaged in extensive research projects on OSU’s autonomous golf cart and unmanned aerial systems in the School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. He was also a CEAT Scholar, a Freshman Research Scholar and a Wentz Research Scholar. Alexis Vance Vance, a 2021 Goldwater Scholar, was the first OSU student to combine chemical, mechanical and aerospace engineering programs at the undergraduate level. She has supplemented her coursework with an extensive history of research projects. Cole Replogle Replogle was one of only 34 U.S. students to be selected for the Gates Cambridge Scholarship in 2020. He plans to pursue a master’s degree in research in future propulsion and power at the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom. NEWS VIEW ALL Honors College students hooded for spring 2022 semester May 13 Scholarship dates/deadlines for continuing OSU students Jan 10 EVENTS VIEW ALL Unsupported browser detected. Please use a supported browser such as Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, or Apple Safari or View the calendar. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Events calendar powered by Trumba Give to our college. Honors students often become leaders in their academic fields and in their communities, so by supporting OSU's top students today, you can help them have a greater impact tomorrow. Go Pokes! Ways to give Information for: Current StudentsProspective StudentsOSU Faculty & StaffAlumniCommunity Members Home Back To Top Back To Top Honors College Part of theDivision of Academic Affairs 101 Old Central Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-6799 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEventsNewsletter Signup Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©