Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth HOOD click to close Hood Museum Menu Visit Now Directions & Information Museum Rules Accessibility FAQ Explore The Museum Mission Staff, Interns, Board & Volunteers Building & Expansion Press Room On View Upcoming Exhibitions Archive The Collection Africa Ancient Art Asia Europe Mexico, Central, & South America Modern & Contemporary Art Native America Oceania United States & Canada Featured Collections Policies & Image Requests Stories & News Museum Blog Print Archive Digital Publications Events & Programs About Our Events & Programs Learn Bernstein Center for Object Study College Students Senior Internships Museum Collecting 101 The Museum Club Art & Wellness Faculty K-12 Educators Educator Resources Join & Support Become a Friend Director's Circle Membership Director's Circle Travel Other Ways to Give Dartmouth Click to search the Hood Museum Site click to open Hood Museum Menu HOOD More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Main menu Explore The Museum On View The Collection Africa Ancient Art Asia Europe Mexico, Central, & South America Modern & Contemporary Art Native America Oceania United States & Canada Featured Collections Environmental Art Japanese Prints Ledger Drawings Orozco’s Epic Scientific Instruments Public Art on Campus John Kobal Foundation Collection Policies & Image Requests Stories & News Events & Programs Search the Collection the collection go One-word searches work best. Use AND to require multiple terms: ceramics AND vase More Close Overlay Keyword Search Information For best results, use one word: Yoruba Baroque Rembrandt Use AND for combinations: American AND ceramics AND vase Birch AND bark AND container Picasso AND photograph Use quotes for phrases and full names: "Bark Painting" "English Sheraton Barometer" "Tuning Fork Mallet" If your search includes 3 or more words, you may use a mix of quotes and AND: "birch bark" AND container Explore Orozco's "Epic" virtually through a 3D tour ADVANCED SEARCH of the Hood's Permanent Collection Orozco's Epic José Clemente Orozco's extraordinary mural cycle The Epic of American Civilization (1932-34) is located in Dartmouth's Baker Library. LEFT Detail from José Clemente Orozco, The Epic of American Civilization, 1932-34, fresco. Hood Museum of Art, Dartmouth: Commissioned by the Trustees of Dartmouth College; P.943.13.1–24. Photo by Jeffrey Nintzel. LEFT Detail from José Clemente Orozco, The Epic of American Civilization, 1932–34, fresco. Hood Museum of Art, Dartmouth: Commissioned by the Trustees of Dartmouth College; P.943.13.1–24. Photo by Jeffrey Nintzel. LEFT Detail from José Clemente Orozco, The Epic of American Civilization, 1932-34, fresco. Hood Museum of Art, Dartmouth: Commissioned by the Trustees of Dartmouth College; P.943.13.1–24. Photo by Jeffrey Nintzel. LEFT Detail from José Clemente Orozco, The Epic of American Civilization: The Coming of Quetzalcoatl (Panel 5), 1932–34, fresco. Hood Museum of Art, Dartmouth: Commissioned by the Trustees of Dartmouth College; P.934.13.5. Photo by Jeffrey Nintzel. LEFT Detail from José Clemente Orozco, The Epic of American Civilization: Anglo-America (Panel 13), 1932–34, fresco. Hood Museum of Art, Dartmouth: Commissioned by the Trustees of Dartmouth College; P.934.13.15. Photo by Jeffrey Nintzel. LEFT Detail from José Clemente Orozco, The Epic of American Civilization: Hispano-America (Panel 14), 1932–34, fresco. Hood Museum of Art, Dartmouth: Commissioned by the Trustees of Dartmouth College; P.934.13.16. Photo by Jeffrey Nintzel. About the Mural The Epic of American Civilization by José Clemente Orozco, painted between 1932 and 1934, is one of Dartmouth's greatest artistic resources. As Professor Mary Coffey writes in the Hood Museum of Art's publication Orozco at Dartmouth: "José Clemente Orozco reorients the 'epic of America' from the standard US narrative that begins with British colonization along the northeastern seaboard and proceeds heroically west to a Mexican story rooted in Mesoamerican civilizations and the devastation wrought by the Spanish Conquest . . . Orozco presents America's epic as cyclical in nature, the eternal return of destruction and creation, rather than a linear tale of democratic expansion and progress." Located in the Orozco Room in Baker Library, the 24 panels comprising the mural cover nearly 3,200 square feet of wall space. One of Orozco's finest creations and one of Dartmouth's most treasured works, the mural was designated a national historic landmark in 2013. The Orozco Room was made possible by the Manton Foundation, whose generosity provides perpetual support for the preservation, understanding, and awareness of the Orozco mural. Virtual 3D Tour Explore The Epic of American Civilization virtually through this 3D Matterport scan. Move through the space by clicking on the transparent circles on the floor. Click on the color-coded dots to learn more about Orozco's mural cycle through additional imagery, text, and audio. Audio Tours Listen to a question-and-answer session about Orozco's commission and experience at Dartmouth with Dr. Jacquelynn Baas, director emeritus of the University of California, Berkeley, Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive, and inaugural director of the Hood Museum of Art. Listen to an audio tour by Dartmouth Associate Professor of Anthropology John Watanabe. Professor Watanabe is a Latin American and Mesoamerican specialist. Publications Download Orozco at Dartmouth: The Epic of American Civilization (pdf) Descargar Orozco en Dartmouth: La épica de la civilización americana (pdf) Take A Closer Look at Orozco's "Gods of the Modern World" panel using this brochure. The A Closer Look brochures were originally designed for use in the galleries. They introduce visitors to one work of art through the Learning to Look method. Learning to Look: José Clemente Orozco (teacher resource). Based on the Learning to Look method created by the Hood Museum of Art. This discussion-based approach will introduce Orozco's test panel using the five steps involved in exploring a work of art: careful observation, analysis, research, interpretation, and critique. Dartmouth Digital Orozco View a full-screen panoramic image of the The Epic of American Civilization and examine preparatory drawings in context. The site includes in-process documentary photographs as well as essays by Dartmouth students who have taken courses on Orozco and Mexican art. For more information, read the related article or the press release (pdf) Dartmouth Digital Orozco was produced by the Hood Museum of Art in collaboration with the Neukom Institute for Computational Science. Funding was generously provided by the Class of 1960, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, and the Neukom Institute for Computational Science. Visit The Orozco Room is located on the lower level of Dartmouth's Baker Library. The street address is: 25 North Main Street, Hanover, NH 03755. Click here to view the Baker Library's hours. Photographs of the mural may be taken for personal use only. Flash photography is not permitted. For image rights and reproductions requests, please click here for more information. Additional Information Related Exhibitions Men of Fire: José Clemente Orozco and Jackson Pollock José Clemente Orozco in the United States, 1927-1934 Related Stories Orozco's Epic of American Civilization Now a National Historic Landmark, 2013 Recent Acquisitions: José Clemente Orozco, The Elevated, 1928 "Class of 2022 toured Orozco murals for Shared Academic Experience," The Dartmouth Past Programs About the Murals Watch the 2018 Manton Foundation Annual Orozco Lecture, delivered by Dartmouth Associate Professor of Art History Mary Coffey, "White Zombies and Black Labor: Specters of Slavery and Rebellion in José Clemente Orozco's Epic of American Civilization" More > José Clemente Orozco, Mexican, 1883 - 1949 Study for The Departure of Quetzalcoatl (Panel 7) for The Epic of American Civilization about 1932-1934 d.978.19 José Clemente Orozco, Mexican, 1883 - 1949 Figure study for Modern Industrial Man (central panel, 2 of 3, Panel 20) for The Epic of American... about 1930-1934 d.988.52.228 José Clemente Orozco, Mexican, 1883 - 1949 Transfer drawing of Head with Open Jaw for The Departure of Quetzalcoatl (Panel 7) for The Epic of... 1932-1934 d.988.52.77 José Clemente Orozco, Mexican, 1883 - 1949 The Epic of American Civilization: Migration (Panel 1) 1932-1934 p.934.13.1 José Clemente Orozco, Mexican, 1883 - 1949 Study of Head for Migration (Panel 1) for The Epic of American Civilization 1932-1934 w.988.52.12 More > Upcoming Events More Events > ADULT WORKSHOP: Expressive Writing Jun 2 06:00 - 07:30PM HOOD HIGHLIGHTS TOUR Jun 4 02:00 - 03:00PM VIRTUAL ADULT WORKSHOP: Expressive Writing Jun 9 06:00 - 07:30PM MIMOSAS AT THE MUSEUM Jun 10 03:00 - 04:00PM MAKER DROP-IN Jun 24 12:00 - 07:00PM HOOD HIGHLIGHTS TOUR Jun 25 02:00 - 03:00PM Main menu Dartmouth College Hood Museum Visit Now Directions & Information Museum Rules Accessibility FAQ Explore The Museum Mission Staff, Interns, Board & Volunteers Building & Expansion Press Room On View Upcoming Exhibitions Archive The Collection Africa Ancient Art Asia Europe Mexico, Central, & South America Modern & Contemporary Art Native America Oceania United States & Canada Featured Collections Policies & Image Requests Stories & News Museum Blog Print Archive Digital Publications Events & Programs About Our Events & Programs Learn Bernstein Center for Object Study College Students Senior Internships Museum Collecting 101 The Museum Club Art & Wellness Faculty K-12 Educators Educator Resources Join & Support Become a Friend Director's Circle Membership Director's Circle Travel Other Ways to Give Return to the Top Visit Now Directions & Information FAQs Explore The Museum On View The Collection Stories & News Events & Programs Learn Center for Object Study College Students K-12 Educators Join & Support Contact Us Search the Site Search this site Go Connect With the Hood Museum Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback