Skip to main content Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth View Cart & Checkout Health Policies Beginning May 31, we are no longer requiring visitors to show proof of vaccination or negative testing in order to attend Hop events. Masks will continue to be required for all visitors when in our lobbies or venues.× Live Events 2021/22 Season Summer 2022 Events Calendar Events Listing Artists-in-Residence Hop@Home Gift Certificates Visitor Information Health & Safety Policies Accessibility Venues & Spaces Mobile Tickets Series Big Move Music Mexico Symposium Thursday Night Live Dartmouth Youth Wind Ensemble Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Film Hop Film Now Met Opera in HD Art on Screen #HearMeRoar Reel Talk Science on Screen About Hop Film Film Society Students Student Overview Thursday Night Live Film Society Hop Fellows Hop Connections Program Student Advisory Council Work at the Hop Career Development Funding Opportunities Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Student Workshops Ceramics Jewelry Woodworking The Arts District Theater Music Rehearsal Spaces Hood Museum Projects & Ideas The Hop Reimagined Explore the Project Hear from Hop Leaders Spaces of Gathering & Creation Hop Project FAQ Arts at the Core Arts Integration Initiative Big Move Curricular Connections Convergence Music Mexico Symposium Artists-in-Residence Ritual of Breath Dance Theatre of Harlem New York Theatre Workshop Ragamala Dance Company Strike Anywhere Joseph Keckler Roger Guenveur Smith Urban Bush Women george emilio sanchez Past Artists-in-Residence Resources Upper Valley Arts Partners Hop News Feed Membership Become a Member Bentley Fellows and Beyond Other Ways to Give Members Faculty & Staff Educators Family & Community Press Visit Support Members Faculty & Staff Educators Family & Community Press login My Account Purchase Tickets Visit Support dartmouth.edu Click to Open Menu Click to Close Search Search form Search this site The Donald Claflin Jewelry Studio The Donald Claflin Jewelry Studio Students More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Student Overview Thursday Night Live Film Society Hop Fellows Hop Connections Program Student Advisory Council Work at the Hop Career Development Funding Opportunities Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Student Workshops Ceramics Jewelry Woodworking The Arts District Theater Music Rehearsal Spaces Hood Museum Related Links Support the Student Workshops2021 Student Workshop Newsletter A well-equipped jewelry and metalsmithing makerspace. Spring 2022 Jewelry Open Studio Tuesday, Friday, Saturday 1–5 pm & Wednesday, Thursday 1-7 pm Reservations are required. No walk-ins. No Charge. Pay for the materials you use. Open to all on-campus Dartmouth students. No food or drink in the studio. Reserve a spot Updates from the Jewelry Studio Workshops Spring 2020 Exhibition Featuring the artwork of over 40 Dartmouth students How to Find the Jewelry Studio How to Make a Bezel Stone Set Pendant J-Shop Testimonial Making a Silver Band Ring Stories from the Student Workshops 2019/2020 During a time of remote learning, students reconnect to the workshops by sharing stories about their favorite projects and the skills they learned. Makerspaces at Dartmouth How to Make Hoop Earrings Creating Your Own J-Hook Clasp Close Section In the News Indigenous Jewelry Today When tanning hides—creating leather from animal skins—Indigenous people traditionally use the brain of the animal, which acts as a natural preservative. And if the leather is to be soft and supple,... A Conversation with Visiting Artist Paulette Werger Paulette Werger, local metalsmith and maker, has an electric presence, even over Zoom. As the Jewelry Studio Fellow, I've met her a few times: a casual Coffee Hour, a wirework class series, her... What Makes the Hop a Home? I have two home bases at Dartmouth: Robinson Hall and the basement of the Hop. When campus was open, I often found myself in one or the other before I even realized I was heading somewhere; I would... All News Articles Contact Us Questions about the Jewelry Studio? The Donald Claflin Jewelry Studio is located in the basement of the Hopkins Center, across from the Paddock Music Library. T.Jeffrey.Georgantes@dartmouth.edu Newsletter Sign-up Sign up for our e-newsletter and mailings to stay up-to-date with the latest offerings from the Hop. join the hop mailing list Already have an account or receive newsletters? Log in to manage your preferences Connect & Share Follow the Hop for an insider's view and to share your experience! YouTube Instagram Facebook Twitter Hopkins Center for the Arts 4 East Wheelock Street Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 Hop Box Office Tuesday–Friday: 12–5 pm and 1 hour prior to all performances hop.box@dartmouth.edu 603.646.2422 About the Hop The Hopkins Center's mission is to ignite and sustain a passion for the arts within Dartmouth and its greater community and to provide the core educational environment for the study, creation and presentation of the arts. Read More > Directory News Visit Directions & Parking Venues & Spaces Work for the Arts Accessibility Policies Gift Certificates Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • A-Z Index • Site or Accessibility Feedback