Skip to main content Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth View Cart & Checkout Health Policies Beginning May 31, we are no longer requiring visitors to show proof of vaccination or negative testing in order to attend Hop events. Masks will continue to be required for all visitors when in our lobbies or venues.× Live Events 2021/22 Season Summer 2022 Events Calendar Events Listing Artists-in-Residence Hop@Home Gift Certificates Visitor Information Health & Safety Policies Accessibility Venues & Spaces Mobile Tickets Series Big Move Music Mexico Symposium Thursday Night Live Dartmouth Youth Wind Ensemble Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Film Hop Film Now Met Opera in HD Art on Screen #HearMeRoar Reel Talk Science on Screen About Hop Film Film Society Students Student Overview Thursday Night Live Film Society Hop Fellows Hop Connections Program Student Advisory Council Work at the Hop Career Development Funding Opportunities Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Student Workshops Ceramics Jewelry Woodworking The Arts District Theater Music Rehearsal Spaces Hood Museum Projects & Ideas The Hop Reimagined Explore the Project Hear from Hop Leaders Spaces of Gathering & Creation Hop Project FAQ Arts at the Core Arts Integration Initiative Big Move Curricular Connections Convergence Music Mexico Symposium Artists-in-Residence Ritual of Breath Dance Theatre of Harlem New York Theatre Workshop Ragamala Dance Company Strike Anywhere Joseph Keckler Roger Guenveur Smith Urban Bush Women george emilio sanchez Past Artists-in-Residence Resources Upper Valley Arts Partners Hop News Feed Membership Become a Member Bentley Fellows and Beyond Other Ways to Give Members Faculty & Staff Educators Family & Community Press Visit Support Members Faculty & Staff Educators Family & Community Press login My Account Purchase Tickets Visit Support dartmouth.edu Click to Open Menu Click to Close Search Search form Search this site Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra Students More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Student Overview Thursday Night Live Film Society Hop Fellows Hop Connections Program Student Advisory Council Work at the Hop Career Development Funding Opportunities Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Student Workshops Ceramics Jewelry Woodworking The Arts District Theater Music Rehearsal Spaces Hood Museum Related Links Meet Director Filippo CiabattiDSO AuditionsSupport the DSO Sophisticated repertoire, student soloists and sold-out houses have given the Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra (DSO) a growing regional reputation for excellence in performing and programming. "When I joined the orchestra l realized it was a 'family' experience; it was great to feel like I belonged and was part of the DSO community. The orchestra has a very high standard of music performance and I find that satisfying." —Eleni Mora '18 The resident orchestra of the Hopkins Center at Dartmouth College, DSO's powerful performances have made it a major hit with area music lovers, who appreciate not having to travel to the city to enjoy a high-quality evening at the symphony. Conducted by Filippo Ciabatti, the DSO is dedicated to the performance of standard works from the symphonic repertoire, while also including a few works off the beaten path. Please check back on this page in the fall for rehearsal days and times. Audition Information Email the Director Updates The Temp: an watch party and album release Wed, Feb 17 Two Dartmouth student ensembles collaborate to present a major new work that joins jazz and classical music — and Shakespeare. Watch here> The Temp Pre-Show Talk A conversation about collaboration across disciplines and genres, and about bringing improvisational practice to orchestral performance. Watch here> Elegie from Tchaikovsky's "Serenade for Strings" With in-person rehearsals and live performances on pause, the Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra virtually put together a movement from Tchaikovsky's celebrated "Serenade for Strings." 2019 Templeton Prize Full-length coverage of the 2019 Templeton Prize ceremony honoring theoretical physicist and cosmologist Marcelo Gleiser on Wednesday, May 29, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium in New York City. "Nimrod" from Enigma Variations The DSO started this project at the beginning of the pandemic to continue our shared bond as musicians and create music together even in isolation. Elgar’s “Nimrod” brings a unique sense of solace during a time of fear and uncertainty. This performance is dedicated to the hope for a future with greater justice and compassion. Virtual Culley Concerto Competition The Virtual Culley Concerto Competition is open to all currently enrolled Dartmouth College students who play a string, woodwind, brass or percussion instrument. Students do not need to be on campus or on term to participate. Grand Prize: $500 First Prize: $300 Second Prize: $100 A Mahler Watch Party Missed the event? Watch it here on Youtube. Close Section In the News DSO Conductor Filippo Ciabatti Receives National Award DSO Travel Diary: Italian Tour This past winterim as some Dartmouth students sat on couches, the Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra undertook a 10-day concert tour of Italy, along with Hop members at the “Bentley Fellow” level and above... All News Articles Contact Us Questions about the DSO? Please call or email the Ensembles Office. 603-646-2530 hopkins.center.ensembles@dartmouth.edu Newsletter Sign-up Sign up for our e-newsletter and mailings to stay up-to-date with the latest offerings from the Hop. join the hop mailing list Already have an account or receive newsletters? Log in to manage your preferences Connect & Share Follow the Hop for an insider's view and to share your experience! YouTube Instagram Facebook Twitter Hopkins Center for the Arts 4 East Wheelock Street Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 Hop Box Office Tuesday–Friday: 12–5 pm and 1 hour prior to all performances hop.box@dartmouth.edu 603.646.2422 About the Hop The Hopkins Center's mission is to ignite and sustain a passion for the arts within Dartmouth and its greater community and to provide the core educational environment for the study, creation and presentation of the arts. Read More > Directory News Visit Directions & Parking Venues & Spaces Work for the Arts Accessibility Policies Gift Certificates Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • A-Z Index • Site or Accessibility Feedback