Skip to main content Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth View Cart & Checkout Health Policies Beginning May 31, we are no longer requiring visitors to show proof of vaccination or negative testing in order to attend Hop events. Masks will continue to be required for all visitors when in our lobbies or venues.× Live Events 2021/22 Season Summer 2022 Events Calendar Events Listing Artists-in-Residence Hop@Home Gift Certificates Visitor Information Health & Safety Policies Accessibility Venues & Spaces Mobile Tickets Series Big Move Music Mexico Symposium Thursday Night Live Dartmouth Youth Wind Ensemble Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Film Hop Film Now Met Opera in HD Art on Screen #HearMeRoar Reel Talk Science on Screen About Hop Film Film Society Students Student Overview Thursday Night Live Film Society Hop Fellows Hop Connections Program Student Advisory Council Work at the Hop Career Development Funding Opportunities Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Student Workshops Ceramics Jewelry Woodworking The Arts District Theater Music Rehearsal Spaces Hood Museum Projects & Ideas The Hop Reimagined Explore the Project Hear from Hop Leaders Spaces of Gathering & Creation Hop Project FAQ Arts at the Core Arts Integration Initiative Big Move Curricular Connections Convergence Music Mexico Symposium Artists-in-Residence Ritual of Breath Dance Theatre of Harlem New York Theatre Workshop Ragamala Dance Company Strike Anywhere Joseph Keckler Roger Guenveur Smith Urban Bush Women george emilio sanchez Past Artists-in-Residence Resources Upper Valley Arts Partners Hop News Feed Membership Become a Member Bentley Fellows and Beyond Other Ways to Give Members Faculty & Staff Educators Family & Community Press Visit Support Members Faculty & Staff Educators Family & Community Press login My Account Purchase Tickets Visit Support dartmouth.edu Click to Open Menu Click to Close Search Search form Search this site Dartmouth College Gospel Choir Dartmouth College Gospel Choir Students More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Student Overview Thursday Night Live Film Society Hop Fellows Hop Connections Program Student Advisory Council Work at the Hop Career Development Funding Opportunities Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Student Workshops Ceramics Jewelry Woodworking The Arts District Theater Music Rehearsal Spaces Hood Museum Related Links Meet Director Walt CunninghamSupport the Contemporary Pop Ensembles Student and community vocalists of diverse backgrounds and beliefs join together to offer universal messages of faith, love and inspiration. Artistic Director Walt Cunningham is the driving force behind Dartmouth College Gospel Choir's uplifting performances, impressing audiences with novel programming and a stunning choral sound. Accompanied by a full band, the choir's energetic performances include spirituals and cutting-edge gospel hits. Email the Director More about Gospel Choir What do I need to audition? No formal audition required, but you will be asked to sing to determine your vocal range. Please attend the first rehearsal in Faulkner Recital Hall for placement. Email gospel.choir@dartmouth.edu for more information! Close Section In the News For Dartmouth Idol Finalists, Music Is All in the Family The annual contest featured student singers, dancers, and musicians. Dartmouth Can Really Sing On Saturday, October 27, while it might have seemed drizzly and dismal outside, the inside of the HOP echoed with rich voices and musical melodies. “Dartmouth Sings” was more than a concert. It is an... All News Articles Contact Us Questions about Gospel Choir? Please call or email the Ensembles Office. 603-646-2530 hopkins.center.ensembles@dartmouth.edu Newsletter Sign-up Sign up for our e-newsletter and mailings to stay up-to-date with the latest offerings from the Hop. join the hop mailing list Already have an account or receive newsletters? Log in to manage your preferences Connect & Share Follow the Hop for an insider's view and to share your experience! YouTube Instagram Facebook Twitter Hopkins Center for the Arts 4 East Wheelock Street Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 Hop Box Office Tuesday–Friday: 12–5 pm and 1 hour prior to all performances hop.box@dartmouth.edu 603.646.2422 About the Hop The Hopkins Center's mission is to ignite and sustain a passion for the arts within Dartmouth and its greater community and to provide the core educational environment for the study, creation and presentation of the arts. Read More > Directory News Visit Directions & Parking Venues & Spaces Work for the Arts Accessibility Policies Gift Certificates Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • A-Z Index • Site or Accessibility Feedback