Skip to main content Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth View Cart & Checkout Health Policies Beginning May 31, we are no longer requiring visitors to show proof of vaccination or negative testing in order to attend Hop events. Masks will continue to be required for all visitors when in our lobbies or venues.× Live Events 2021/22 Season Summer 2022 Events Calendar Events Listing Artists-in-Residence Hop@Home Gift Certificates Visitor Information Health & Safety Policies Accessibility Venues & Spaces Mobile Tickets Series Big Move Music Mexico Symposium Thursday Night Live Dartmouth Youth Wind Ensemble Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Film Hop Film Now Met Opera in HD Art on Screen #HearMeRoar Reel Talk Science on Screen About Hop Film Film Society Students Student Overview Thursday Night Live Film Society Hop Fellows Hop Connections Program Student Advisory Council Work at the Hop Career Development Funding Opportunities Ensembles Coast Jazz Orchestra Dance Ensemble Glee Club Gospel Choir Handel Society Marching Band Symphony Orchestra Wind Ensemble Student Workshops Ceramics Jewelry Woodworking The Arts District Theater Music Rehearsal Spaces Hood Museum Projects & Ideas The Hop Reimagined Explore the Project Hear from Hop Leaders Spaces of Gathering & Creation Hop Project FAQ Arts at the Core Arts Integration Initiative Big Move Curricular Connections Convergence Music Mexico Symposium Artists-in-Residence Ritual of Breath Dance Theatre of Harlem New York Theatre Workshop Ragamala Dance Company Strike Anywhere Joseph Keckler Roger Guenveur Smith Urban Bush Women george emilio sanchez Past Artists-in-Residence Resources Upper Valley Arts Partners Hop News Feed Membership Become a Member Bentley Fellows and Beyond Other Ways to Give Members Faculty & Staff Educators Family & Community Press Visit Support Members Faculty & Staff Educators Family & Community Press login My Account Purchase Tickets Visit Support dartmouth.edu Click to Open Menu Click to Close Search Search form Search this site Hopkins Center for the Arts at Dartmouth Summer at the Hop NOW ON SALE: The world grows green, and this summer we open ourselves to artists who traverse boundaries of form and culture, tug at the threads of the past and show us the ways forward together. Get Tickets Summer at the Hop NOW ON SALE: The world grows green, and this summer we open ourselves to artists who traverse boundaries of form and culture, tug at the threads of the past and show us the ways forward together. Get Tickets Upcoming Events Jun 04 Met Opera in HD Hamlet 1:00 PM Spaulding Auditorium Jun 24 Pascuala Ilabaca y Fauna 5:30 PM Dartmouth Green Jun 25 HopStop Family Show: Modern Times Theater The Perils of Mr. Punch 11:00 AM Hop Courtyard HopStop Family Show: Modern Times Theater The Perils of Mr. Punch 1:00 PM Hop Courtyard Seth Parker Woods Difficult Grace 7:30 PM The Moore Theater Jul 06 The Nth Power 5:30 PM Dartmouth Green Event Calendar The Hop Reimagined Welcome to a new vision for the Hop. A place for experimentation, diverse experiences and the cross-pollination of ideas across disciplines. A place of welcome, gathering and creation. Learn More The Hop Reimagined Watch the VideoExplore the ProjectRead Our FAQ Join the Call to Lead Students in the Arts The Hop is the key place on campus for experiencing the arts—as a performer, audience member, fellow, film buff, craftsperson, or crew member. Learn More Ensembles Eight dynamic performing groups, led by superb professional artists, offer Dartmouth students the chance to work with outstanding professionals in choral music, jazz, gospel, pop, symphonic music, concert band and contemporary dance. Student Workshops Hone your craft with hands-on projects in wood, metal/jewelry and clay—no experience needed! Hop Fellows Program Considering a career in the arts? The Fellows Program allows Dartmouth students to explore the field of arts administration and grow as leaders by taking on responsibilities in various Hop departments. Career Development The Hop is much more than a place for arts students and visiting performers. It is also a vital hub where students, faculty and the Dartmouth community connect and share ideas. A Center of Welcome, Gathering & Creation The Hop Project is a focus of The Call to Lead campaign and marks an important milestone in Dartmouth's ongoing, $180M investment in its Arts District. Building on the Hop's founding vision, the upcoming expansion will support more ambitious creation of cross-disciplinary work onsite by resident artists, students and faculty. Learn More In the News Snøhetta Reveals New Design of the Hopkins Center for the Arts at Dartmouth University The project aims to modernize the existing arts center and create a renewed gateway to the campus's Arts District. Dartmouth unveils designs for $88 million expansion of Hopkins Center for the Arts Plans include a new recital hall, dance studio, and outdoor plaza All News Articles Just for You Learn more about the opportunities and benefits available to you! Dartmouth students Faculty & Staff Members Community Educators Press Newsletter Sign-up Sign up for our e-newsletter and mailings to stay up-to-date with the latest offerings from the Hop. join the hop mailing list Already have an account or receive newsletters? Log in to manage your preferences Connect & Share Follow the Hop for an insider's view and to share your experience! YouTube Instagram Facebook Twitter Hopkins Center for the Arts 4 East Wheelock Street Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 Hop Box Office Tuesday–Friday: 12–5 pm and 1 hour prior to all performances hop.box@dartmouth.edu 603.646.2422 About the Hop The Hopkins Center's mission is to ignite and sustain a passion for the arts within Dartmouth and its greater community and to provide the core educational environment for the study, creation and presentation of the arts. Read More > Directory News Visit Directions & Parking Venues & Spaces Work for the Arts Accessibility Policies Gift Certificates Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • A-Z Index • Site or Accessibility Feedback