Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Hopkins Marine Station School of Humanities and Sciences Search Menu About History Toggle History In Memorium: Isabella Abbott Tours Facilities/Resources Toggle Facilities/Resources HMS Calendars and Reservations Lab Safety Events Toggle Events Invited Speaker Series Friends of Hopkins Lecture Series Past Events News Hopkins Service Awards Outreach Toggle Outreach Overview Salinas Intern Program SeaNet Squids for Kids Affiliated Programs Donate Toggle Donate Friends of Hopkins Contact Diversity Statement Toggle Diversity Statement HMS DEIB Initiatives and General Resources Research Overview Function (Physiology & Biomechanics) Change (Development & Evolution) Interaction (Ecology & Conservation) People Faculty Graduate Students Research Associates Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Undergraduate Studies Overview Toggle Overview Life at Hopkins Research Opportunities Spring Courses 2022 Stanford@Sea Toggle Stanford@Sea FAQs Apply Toggle Apply On-Campus Advice Graduate Program Overview Prospective Students Toggle Prospective Students Apply Graduate Life at Hopkins Toggle Graduate Life at Hopkins Courses Awards Where are they now? Careers Hopkins Student Organization (HMSGSO) Graduate Student Resources Toggle Graduate Student Resources PhD Requirements and Forms Toggle PhD Requirements and Forms Hopkins Track Overview Health and Wellness Toggle Health and Wellness Cardinal Care Insurance Funding Opportunities Travel and Reimbursements Staff Roles at HMS Associations Outreach and Mentoring Job Postings HMS Post-Doc Resources Toggle HMS Post-Doc Resources OPA: Important Links Financial Resources Health and Wellness Travel Policies and Reimbursements Navigating Your IDP International Post-Docs Career Development Video file JOIN US ON THE CUTTING-EDGE OF MONTEREY BAY Welcome to Hopkins Marine Station—a leader in marine science since 1892. Where researchers, undergraduates, and graduates come together to ask big questions, explore new ideas, and discover how and why things work. Learn With Us Research Hopkins is a premier research center. Our 11 faculty members are asking and answering timely and exciting research questions—how do animals function? How do they develop and evolve? How do they interact? Graduate Students 10 diverse labs—Unlimited curiosity. Meet Hopkins faculty, see their research, and learn how to apply. Undergraduate Students Welcome to academia. At Hopkins, undergrads get to participate in hands-on, world-class research activities in collaboration with grad students, post docs, and faculty. News Scientific discoveries, research publications and more! Events Check out our webinar series featuring researchers, scientists and academics from around the world. Community Find out how to join our community, make donations and attend events. Discover with Us We acknowledge that Hopkins Marine Station sits on the ancestral land of the Ohlone Rumsen tribe and give thanks for the opportunity to live, work and learn on their traditional homeland. We pay our respects to all Ohlone people, past and present. Back to Top Contact Us 120 Ocean View Blvd Pacific Grove, CA 93950 Phone: 831-655-6200 hmsinformation@lists.stanford.edu Graduate Students Faculty Research Undergraduates Courses Life at Hopkins Resources Facilities Lab Safety Connect With Us Make A Gift SUNet Login Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.