Home About Apply Log In HornRaiser Home About Apply Log In Home to Texas IC2 Help change the world — one Texas hometown at a time! So far 101 members of Longhorn Nation have supported with gifts totaling $23,310! Support Home to Texas, a program that provides Longhorns with internships that help them understand the value of their home communities. Give Now Support the Future of Memory Care By Dell Medical School Help people cope with the unique challenges of dementia. Gifts will be matched by the Carl C. Anderson Sr. and Marie Jo Anderson Charitable Foundation. $6,625 33% Funded 8 Donors 92 days left Support Students and Scholars Impacted by the Invasion of Ukraine Provide Urgent Relief to UT Students and Scholars Impacted by the War in Ukraine Make an immediate difference in the lives of UT students and scholars who urgently need help. Give Now Help the Harry Ransom Center Reach Every Student So far, we have received 18 gifts totaling $6,360 towards our goal of $60,000. Our Advisory Council has launched a fundraising challenge and will match your contribution dollar-for-dollar up to $15,000. Double your impact today! Help us expand our thriving program by hiring two graduate fellows to increase our teaching over the next two years. Give Now Diversity Equity and Inclusion So far, we have received 73 gifts totaling $8,250 towards our goal of $50,000. Support an important movement of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at Moody College. Give Now Radio, Television, and Film Emergency Fund Moody College of Communication Help RTF students get the equipment they need to finish their degree from home! Give Now Communication Council Study Abroad So far we have raised $25,418 of our goal of $50,000. Support the Communication Council Study Abroad Endowment! Give Now Moody Emergency Fund So far, we have received 242 gifts totaling in $73,599 towards our goal of $100,000! Support students affected by the COVID-19 pandemic through emergency funding. Give Now Provide Urgent Relief for UT Students in Need Make an immediate difference for UT students who need your help. So far $2,063,939 has been raised for our students. The University of Texas at Austin is committed to the well-being of every one of our students — especially when they need extra support to succeed. Give Now UT Beautification Council UT Beautification Council has raised $533,875 from 392 gifts! Women Beautifying the UT Austin Campus Join Now! Support James Turrell's "The Color Inside" So far 2 donors have supported with gifts totaling $150! James Turrell's Skyspace, "The Color Inside" is one of UT's most beloved works of art. Give now to preserve this work for future generations. Give Now Support Safe Primary Care and Scholarships During COVID-19 Help the School of Nursing to provide urgent scholarships and the outstanding level of care that our communities rely on. Help the School of Nursing’s clinics provide the outstanding level of care that our communities have relied on for decades. Give Now Help Establish the David Laude Scholarship $63,933 from 203 gifts have been received for the David Laude Scholarship. Help us reach our $100,000 goal and double your impact by making a gift today. This new scholarship will support students in the Texas Interdisciplinary Program (TIP) and is being named in honor of TIP founder, professor David Laude. Make My Gift The Black Experience on America’s College Campuses So far, we have raised $1,323 from 14 gifts towards our goal of $10,000. A podcast that gives Black journalists at UT the much-needed platform to tell stories of Black success on a predominately white campus. Give Now Bryn Christine Howard Memorial Scholarship in Engineering $46,331 has been raised for the Bryn Christine Howard Memorial Scholarship in Engineering. To honor the late Bryn Howard, a former CAEE student at UT who passed away in 2021. Give Now Blank Center for Stuttering Education and Research Moody College of Communication Change the lives of children, teens, and adults around the world who stutter by supporting the Arthur M. Blank Center for Stuttering Education and Research. Give Now Texas Theatre and Dance: kin • song: ode to disability ancestors We welcome your support of Texas Theatre and Dance. kin • song: ode to disability ancestors is a digital performance ritual, a cybernetic seance using monologue, dialogue, puppetry, song and dance. TICKETS Michael G. Foster Memorial Scholarship in Aerospace Engineering $22,694 has been raised for the Michael G. Foster Memorial Scholarship in Aerospace Engineering. To honor the late Michael G Foster, a first generation college student, airplane enthusiast, dedicated Longhorn fan, and beloved son, brother, husband & father. Give Now Captain Kevin K. Roach Memorial Scholarship $50,403 has been raised for the Captain Kevin K. Roach Memorial Scholarship. The Captain Kevin K. Roach Memorial Scholarship created in honor of Captain Roach, a Mechanical Engineering Alumni who served in the US Navy. Give Now Texas Theatre and Dance 21/22 Season: "Kimmy" We welcome your support of Texas Theatre and Dance. When Kemi, a first-generation Nigerian girl, moves from D.C. to Montgomery County, Maryland, her efforts to fit in at her new school are halted. TIX: 12/4 @ 7p Going the distance for Livestrong Cancer Institutes By Josh Vintner-Jackson Join Josh in raising funds to support Dr. Anna Capasso and team during the Austin Half Marathon. $5,156 103% Funded 81 Donors 0 days left 2022 Class Gift: University Libraries Donate to the 2022 Class Gift and leave your legacy on the Forty Acres! So far 430 graduates have supported with gifts totaling $16,499! The 2022 Class Gift Committee has chosen to feature the Library Tomorrow Fund. Help us raise money to purchase a brand-new Class of '22 bookshelf! Give Now 2022 Class Gift: College of Education Help the Class of 2022 ensure that the Forty Acres experience remains accessible for students most affected by this economic crisis. So far 9 graduates have supported with gifts totaling $349! Now more than ever, scholarship support is crucial for our Education students and their families! Give Now Our Crowdfunding Groups HornRaiser Main Funded Gifts to Change the World, 2021-22 Catalog Support COVID-19 Relief & Care Making Moody Happen Class of 2022 Gift HornRaiser Crowdfunding FAQ About Privacy Policy Apply Home Contact Us Powered by ScaleFunder Terms Privacy Policy © 2022 HornRaiser, All Rights Reserved