Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Horticulture and Home Pest News Search form Search Main menu Main Menu Content by Category Fruits & Nuts Problems & Pests Insects Disease Environmental Stress Wildlife Weeds Garden Management, Maintenance, & Design Soils, Fertilizers, & Composting Houseplants & Indoor Gardening Lawn & Turf Ornamental Plants & Flowers Annuals Perennials Bulbs Roses Vines Trees & Shrubs Broadleaf Conifer Vegetables & Herbs People News Encyclopedia Resources Publications Videos FAQ Submit a Sample Ask a Question Which trees bloom in summer in Iowa? Which type of peony should I grow? How do I grow iris? Gardening Myths Avoid pruning oaks right now, oak wilt risk is high Yard and Garden News Yard and Garden: Growing Sweet Potato in Iowa Fall Master Gardener Training Offered as Hybrid Course &amp;#039;Garden Variety&amp;#039; Podcast to Feature Horticulture Experts on Iowa Public Radio Yard and Garden: Growing Petunias Emerald Ash Borer Discovered in Dickinson and Humboldt Counties More Horticulture & Home Pest News Bleached Flowers on Lilac Peony Types and Cultivars New Gardening Podcast Now Available Carpenter Bee Males on Patrol Watering Tips for the Garden More Horticulture and Home Pest News articles. Timely Topics Bloom of the Week: Geraniums are popular plants for containers for Memorial Day. FAQ of the Week: How do I care for hanging baskets? Pest of the Week: Learn more about managing suckers on fruit or ornamental trees. Instagram (@isu_hort) Garden Variety Podcast Late bloomers: it’s not too late to plant sweet potatoes On this episode of Garden Variety, Charity speaks with ISU Extension horticulture specialist Dan Fillius about growing sweet potatoes. Peony for your thoughts On this episode of Garden Variety, Charity and ISU horticulturists Aaron Steil and Cindy Haynes discuss best practices for caring for peonies, irises and other spring-blooming perennials. How to care for apple trees On this episode of Garden Variety, Charity speaks with Suzanne Slack of Iowa State University Extension about how to get your orchard off to a good growing season and handle all the problems that can leave you stumped. more podcast episodes A Twitter List by ISUANR Copyright © 2022 ISU Extension and Outreach 2150 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011-2031 (800) 262-3804 Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners Like us at Plant and Insect Diagnostic Clinic Like us at Department of Horticulture Like us at Department of Plant Pathology and Microbiology Like us at Department of Entomology Like us at Iowa Master Gardener Site Index Site map