About About Awards and Honors Leadership Team Strategic Plan: Vision 2025 Conferences Contact Us Faculty Directory Staff Directory Ph.D. Student Directory Adjunct Directory News Room We Are Rosen College: A Video Event Planning Bookstore Housing Library Upcoming Events UCF Rosen College 2019 & Beyond: A Video The Best Place to Study Hospitality Management Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Disney College Programs Internships Professional Development P.R.E.P. Study Abroad Entrepreneurship Competition Learn From Industry Leaders & Renowned Scholars Students Current Students – Advising and More! Future Rosen Knights International Students Welcome! Cost, Scholarships & Financial Aid Housing Rosen Life Rosen College Medical Clinic Student Services Camp Pineapple Knights Helping Knights Pantry @ Rosen College live, learn and work in the heart of the hospitality and tourism Research Dick Pope Sr. Institute for Tourism Studies Dean’s Distinguished Lecture Series Rosen Research Review Research Research Gate STARS Rosen College Webinars More than 40 researchers in the hospitality and tourism industry Corporate Partners College Advisory Boards Industry & Employers UCF Rosen College State of the College Address Career Fair Industry Testimonials Industry partners share their time, their talent and their treasures! Alumni Alumni Dean’s Alumni Advisory Board The Pineapple Ball Donate Hospitality Hall of Fame Hospitality Knight 2022 Our alumni are everywhere, and we’re 10,000 strong Languages Afrikaans Arabic Bengali Chinese Dutch English French German Hausa Hindi Italian Japanese Javanese Korean Malay Marathi Papiamento Persian Portuguese Punjabi Romanian Russian Spanish Swahili Swedish Tamil Telugu Thai Turkish Vietnamese Our Faculty Members Represent 17 Different Countries Rosen College of Hospitality Management About About Awards and Honors Leadership Team Strategic Plan: Vision 2025 Conferences Contact Us Faculty Directory Staff Directory Ph.D. Student Directory Adjunct Directory News Room We Are Rosen College: A Video Event Planning Bookstore Housing Library Upcoming Events UCF Rosen College 2019 & Beyond: A Video The Best Place to Study Hospitality Management Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Disney College Programs Internships Professional Development P.R.E.P. Study Abroad Entrepreneurship Competition Learn From Industry Leaders & Renowned Scholars Students Current Students – Advising and More! Future Rosen Knights International Students Welcome! Cost, Scholarships & Financial Aid Housing Rosen Life Rosen College Medical Clinic Student Services Camp Pineapple Knights Helping Knights Pantry @ Rosen College live, learn and work in the heart of the hospitality and tourism Research Dick Pope Sr. Institute for Tourism Studies Dean’s Distinguished Lecture Series Rosen Research Review Research Research Gate STARS Rosen College Webinars More than 40 researchers in the hospitality and tourism industry Corporate Partners College Advisory Boards Industry & Employers UCF Rosen College State of the College Address Career Fair Industry Testimonials Industry partners share their time, their talent and their treasures! Alumni Alumni Dean’s Alumni Advisory Board The Pineapple Ball Donate Hospitality Hall of Fame Hospitality Knight 2022 Our alumni are everywhere, and we’re 10,000 strong Languages Afrikaans Arabic Bengali Chinese Dutch English French German Hausa Hindi Italian Japanese Javanese Korean Malay Marathi Papiamento Persian Portuguese Punjabi Romanian Russian Spanish Swahili Swedish Tamil Telugu Thai Turkish Vietnamese Our Faculty Members Represent 17 Different Countries Teaching Professionalism, Leadership & Service WE ARE HOSPITALITY Named The Nation’s Best, To Study HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT An Amazing Campus Experience IN THE HEART OF HOSPITALITY Experts in Hospitality EDUCATING FUTURE LEADERS Exciting Adventures to Explore IN CENTRAL FLORIDA Study, Live, Work and Play IN HOSPITALITY'S HOME Additional Info Apply Student Resources Meet the Dean Why Choose Rosen College of Hospitality Management? UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management, located in Orlando, Florida, #1 tourist destination in America, offers students an unrivaled opportunity to learn and work in the heart of hospitality. Named the nation’s best, and No. 2 in world, the hospitality college has consistently moved up in the ShanghaiRankings’ survey over the last three years. We educate the next generation of industry leaders through internationally-recognized faculty, innovative academic programs, cutting-edge research and strong industry and community partnerships who deliver a global perspective on hospitality, event management, entertainment management, restaurant and foodservice management, lodging, senior living management and tourism. Tour our Campus in this Video , See What Students and Industry Partners Have to Say About this Unique College Experience , Find Out What Makes Our Programs Special and Learn More About Admissions! The most comprehensive program of its kind with degrees in: Choose Your Interest: Undergraduate Graduate Hospitality Management Entertainment Management Event Management Restaurant & Foodservice Management Senior Living Management Hospitality & Tourism Management Hospitality Management Travel Technology & Analytics 3,000 With more than 3,000 undergraduate students, the college is one of the largest and fastest-growing hospitality programs in the nation. 1 Rated in the nation by the 2020 ShanghaiRankings’ listing of 500 of the world’s top universities for hospitality and tourism programs in the world; 2nd globally. 225k More than $225,000 in scholarships awarded annually 72 72 full-time faculty; 38 adjuncts; 64 staff 97% 97% job placement rate upon graduation 5 5 Highly-respected research journals for hospitality and tourism and 1 research magazine Internationally Renowned and Represented Our faculty members represent 17 different countries and are recognized globally for their research, teaching skills and professional experience. Take a look at the Faculty Directory and learn why Rosen College is a top choice for higher education. Our programs are highly ranked because of our skilled faculty. Our online Restaurant and Foodservice Management B.S. program has been ranked No. 8 nationally by U.S. News & World Report, read all about UCF’s top rankings, and we’re tops in the nation in the Shanghai Rankings. We welcome International Students. Visit this page to learn more. Study Here! Grow Here! Meet the Faculty Kayode D. Aleshinloye Kayode D. Aleshinloye, Ph.D. received a Ph.D. in Recreation, Park, & Tourism Sciences at Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas (2015) and M.S. in Tourism Management at Eastern Mediterranean University, North Cyprus (2009). Prior to that, Kayode had his Bachelor’s degree at University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Nigeria majoring in Home Science and Management (Nutrition & Dietetics Option, 2000). He is a lecturer of Event Management for the Department of Tourism, Events, and Attractions, at Rosen College of Hospitality Management, University of Central Florida. Read More Gisele Canova Gisele Canova is an Instructor and Internship Coordinator at the Rosen College of Hospitality Management. Gisele is a skilled Hospitality professional with over 20 years of experience within the Tourism and Hospitality industry. She started her Tourism career organizing and guiding multilingual tours throughout Brazil and South America, but eventually realized that her passion was Hospitality where she went on to fulfill several operational roles for various companies, including Disney, Hilton, Loews Hotels, Orient-Express, and Sheraton. Read More Amy M. Gregory Dr. Gregory joined UCF’s Rosen College of Hospitality Management in August 2012. Dr. Gregory’s research focuses on consumer behavior in the lodging context; more specifically concentrated on the unique aspects of the timeshare and mixed use segments of the greater lodging industry. Dr. Gregory’s academic career was preceded by more than 25 years of international sales, marketing and business development experience in the lodging and services industries – the last 10 of which included global revenue management responsibility with the Marriott Corporation. Read More Alan Fyall Dr. Alan Fyall is the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, the Visit Orlando Endowed Chair, the Interim Chair of the Tourism, Events and Attractions Department and Graduate Programs’ Director at the Rosen College of Hospitality Management, University of Central Florida, and is a member of UCF’s National Center for Integrated Coastal Research. Dr. Fyall is also Interim Chair for the Touism, Events and Attractions Department. He has published widely in the areas of tourism and destination marketing and management including 22 books. Read More View All Faculty Cutting-edge Hospitality and Tourism Research The active research contribution of UCF’s Rosen College faculty, which represents the broad spectrum of the hospitality management industry, are well recognized and respected by their peers, making UCF’s Rosen College of Hospitality Management one of the most influential and cutting-edge voices in hospitality and tourism research and education. Research currently featured includes articles published in 2021 and also articles from the Rosen Research Review magazine, which can be read HERE. The full gamut of research conducted by Rosen College Faculty may be found on STARS. Employee-fit and turnover intentions: The role of job engagement and psychological contract violation in the hospitality industry. Fevzi Okumus, Ph.D., University of Central Florida Featured Research The primary goal of this study is to develop and test a comprehensive model concerning the association between employee-fit and turnover intention (TI) in the hospitality industry. A multi-wave survey was conducted in the metropolitan cities of Pakistan to collect data from 362 frontline hotel industry employees. READ MORE Which construct is better at explaining residents’ involvement in tourism; emotional solidarity or empowerment? Kayode Aleshinoye, Ph.D., University of Central Florida Featured Research This research explores the role that emotional solidarity and empowerment play in explaining residents' involvement in planning for tourism. We collected a sample of 415 residents residing in three counties highly impacted from tourism in Central Florida – Orange, Osceola, and Seminole. Our results thus contribute to empirically-rigorous, holistic modelling of residents' attitudes. READ MORE What's New Hospitality Knight 2022 Hospitality Knight is June 16, 2022. Welcome home to UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management! Please join the Alumni Chapter Board for an evening of networking, socializing, and learning from industry leaders. Our signature event will be held on our beautiful campus. The 30 Under 30 Rosen College alumni award recipients will be recognized, and the Alumni Mentor and Mentorship Relationship of the Year will be announced. Register Today! 5:30-6:00 p.m. Check-in, Rosen College Courtyard 6:00-7:00 p.m. Conversation/Refreshments, Disney Dining Room 7:00-8:15 p.m. Welcome, Panel Discussion, and Mentorship Awards, Darden Auditorium 8:15-8:30 p.m. Coffee & Dessert Reception, Rosen College fountain Panelists: Robert Agrusa: President CFHLA Danielle Hollander: CMO Visit Orlando Marco Manzie: President Paramount Hospitality Mark Tester Executive Director, Orange County Convention Center Early-bird pricing thru June 15: Alumni, Faculty, Students | $25; Industry Partners | $30 For questions or more information, please email Susan Boucher, Asst. Director of Alumni Engagement, susan.boucher@ucf.edu. Announcements Press Releases Upcoming Events Jun 09 Health Meets Food: The Culinary Medicine Conference Register today for the 8TH annual HEALTH MEETS FOOD: THE CULINARY MEDICINE CONFERENCE. The conference [..] Jun 16 Hospitality Knight 2022 Hospitality Knight is June 16, 2022. Welcome home to UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management! Please [..] In the News Turning Events into Careers UCF’s new master’s program in event leadership will bring a world of experience to the epicenter of this fast-growing industry. READ MORE 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and hospitality. READ MORE New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and parts of Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana and Texas. READ MORE Turning Events into Careers 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters Apply Student Resources Conferences Giving Submit Search 9907 Universal Blvd., Orlando, Florida 32819 | 407.903.8000 | rchminfo@ucf.edu Academic Degrees B.S. Restaurant & Foodservice Management B.S. Hospitality Management B.S. Event Management B.S. Entertainment Management B.S. Senior Living Management M.S. Hospitality & Tourism Management M.S. Travel Technology and Analytics Ph.D. Hospitality Management Translate: Translate: STAY INFORMED Enter your information below to subscribe to our newsletter and be the first to hear about our upcoming events. Email* Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. © 2022 University of Central Florida