Skip to content Cornell University Cornell University Library My account Search site and Catalog Search Filter Search Library Resources This site Search Close Libraries and Hours Ask a Librarian Nestlé Library Library hours statusClosed - Full Hours / Contact us Search Filter Search Library Resources This site Search Main Navigation Home About Staff Profiles Resources Databases Research Guides Popular Journals Services Help The Nestlé Library maintains one of the world’s largest collections of research material in hospitality and real estate. For research assistance, start with some of the quick links below or reach out to one of our librarians to set up a consultation or explore additional resources. Get started with… Lodging research Restaurant research Real estate research More research guides Popular databases… Hospitality & Tourism Complete IBISWorld Mintel Academic More databases Database Spotlight GlobalData Travel & Tourism provides tracking of tourism demand and flows, expenditure, and competitor KPIs across 180 countries. Excellent source for international market research in the travel and tourism sectors. Research Assistance Our customized research guides are a great place to start your research. Need more help? Contact our librarians if you would like to ask a question or set up a research consultation. Explore Our Collections From top-shelf business research databases to an amazing selection of academic and trade journals, researchers from the SHA community have an extensive collection of material to choose from. Scholarly Commons The Scholarly Commons offers digital access to unique material that both reflects and supports the scholarly community of the School of Hotel Administration at Cornell University. Libraries and Hours | Ask a Librarian Home About Resources Services Help CONTACT Nestlé Library G80 Statler Hall, Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14850 Nestlé Library Library Location Reference: (607) 255-3673 Circulation: 607) 255-3673 Email: hotellibrary@cornell.edu ©2022 Cornell University Library, Ithaca, NY 14853 | 607-255-4144 | Privacy | Web Accessibility Assistance | Staff Login FEEDBACK GIVE TO THE LIBRARY