Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us Assignments Spring Housing Transfer Housing Summer Start Continuing Housing Sign-up New Student Housing Sign-up Bridge Student Housing Sign-up Summer Housing Sign-up Contracts, Rates, & Policies Accommodated Housing Room Changes Housing & Dining Cancellations Sub-navigation Continuing Housing Sign-up Thinking about applying to live on campus next year? We’re excited to share with you the 2022-23 housing signup process! Deadline Sign-up between Jan. 19 at 8:30am and February 1 at 4:00pm (ET). Sign-Up You will need to complete a contract through the Clemson Home Portal prior to the deadline. This includes: Sign the contract Select a meal plan Select an LLC (if applicable) Create a roommate group of 4,3, or 2 people, if you would like. We recommend groups of 4, 2, or singles for best priority in Room Selection Changes to LLC and Roommate groups will not be possible after the deadline. Priority Number On February 3, you will be emailed a Priority Number. This randomly assigned number will determine the order in which you will be given the opportunity to select a space on campus. There will be separate priority lists for groups of 4, groups of 3, groups of 2, and singles and groups will only be able to select spaces with enough room for their whole group. Room Selection Room selection will take place starting on February 8-10 and then on a rolling basis as spaces for your roommate group size become available. You will be emailed a timeslot only when your priority number falls within the number of spaces available for your group size during a selection time. Only one person from your group will need to log in to select a space. For example, if there are 100 four person apartments available in a selection time and you are in a group of 4 with a Priority Number between 1 and 100, you will receive a timeslot and be able to select a space. If your Priority Number is 101 or higher, you will not receive a timeslot until more spaces are available in another selection. Timeline Living-Learning Community spaces: February 8 4 person and 3 person spaces: February 9 2 person and single spaces: February 10 Rolling Selection as spaces are available: Fridays February 18 – May 13 FAQs How Does Priority for Housing Work? On February 3, you will be emailed a Priority Number. This number will be randomly assigned within each roommate group size. This means there will be separate priority lists for groups of 4, groups of 3, groups of 2, and singles. Since each group size will be limited to only spaces that will fit all members of the group (a group of 4 will only be able to select an apartment with 4 open spaces), groups of 4 will select first, then 3, then 2, and singles last. This allows apartments to be filled completely and provides the best chance for roommate groups to live together. How will I know when I can select my housing? You will receive an email with a timeslot when your priority number is within the number of spaces available. For example, if there are 100 four person apartments available in a selection time and you are in a group of 4 with a Priority Number between 1 and 100, you will receive a timeslot and be able to select a space. If your Priority Number is 101 or higher, you will not receive a timeslot until more spaces are available in another selection. Living-Learning Community spaces: February 8 4 person and 3 person spaces: February 9 2 person and single spaces: February 10 Rolling Selection as spaces are available: Fridays February 18 – May 13 How can I cancel my contract? If you have received a priority number but have not received a time slot you may cancel your contract at any time prior to Room Selection by emailing Clemson Home at clemsonhome@clemson.edu. If you have selected a space, but it has not yet been 72 hours since you got your space, you may cancel your contract through the housing portal. If it has been more than 72 hours since you got your space, the contract is legally binding. You would need to file an appeal to request a cancellation based on extenuating circumstances. What if I do not receive a timeslot with my priority number on February 3? Your priority number is your place in line. If you do not get a timeslot to select housing in the first round of selection, you will just need to continue waiting in line. We will be doing a rolling selection process as spaces become available on Fridays between February 18 and May 13. Starting February 18, we will issue Room Selection timeslots for Fridays based on the next priority number for space available for the group size and gender, if applicable. These timeslots will be emailed by Thursday at noon for students who will be able to select a space the next day. For example – there is a single space available in a 4-person apartment with three women, so we would issue the timeslot to the next priority number for a woman without roommates. You will receive regular communications to let you know where we are in the priority numbers. For example, a student with a priority number of 80 in a group of 4 will be notified that we are currently at number 77 for the weekly Room Selection. We anticipate additional spaces becoming available around the following times: February 8-10 due to Room Selection cancellations. After April 1 due to school related cancellations for Fall semester and RA selection. After May 31 due to Bridge Student cancellations for Fall semester. After July 26 when Fall semester bills open. Is housing guaranteed for me? Housing is only guaranteed for first year and Bridge to Clemson students. On campus housing is prioritized for new-to campus students with the goal of supporting them during their transition and ensuring their engagement and success during that critical first year. Continuing students are offered housing as available. What if I’m in a fraternity or sorority, or an athlete? Please be sure that you are in contact with your house manager (if in a fraternity or sorority) or coach (if an athlete) about your plans for housing in the fall. Assignments Spring Housing Transfer Housing Summer Start Continuing Housing Sign-up New Student Housing Sign-up Bridge Student Housing Sign-up Summer Housing Sign-up Contracts, Rates, & Policies Accommodated Housing Room Changes Housing & Dining Cancellations If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information