Skip To Content Florida State University Search: Search site Search FSU Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services University Housing Toggle navigation Menu Home Future Residents Future First–Year Students Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Future Transfer Students Residence Halls Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Graduate Students Academic Resources Current Residents Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Housing Booklets Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Campus Safety Community Standards Academic Resources Parents & Guardians Childcare Human Resources Conference Services About Us Our Welcome Mission Our Staff Contact Us News & Announcements RSO Lounge Request Advertising Policy Housing Living Learning Communities LLCs Frequently Asked Questions LLC Agreements How to Apply Application Prompts Contact Us What's a Living–Learning Community? At Florida State, a Living–Learning Community (LLC) is a small group of students who live together, share an interest, and take one or two of their classes together — usually in a small classroom inside their residence hall. Designed primarily for first-year students, an LLC is a great place to plug into a supportive network of students and distinguished faculty as soon as you arrive at FSU. If you're admitted to FSU as a First Time in College student, there's an LLC for you — regardless of your major, career goals, or accelerated credit earned in high school. Once you've submitted your Fall/Spring housing contract, consider applying for one or more LLCs. Selection is competitive and based on the quality of a brief LLC application. To learn more about each community and how to apply, explore the links on this page or contact University Housing. Students who are admitted to the First Year Abroad (FYA) program are also able to benefit from LLCs. To learn more about FYA LLCs, contact International Programs (IP-freshmen@fsu.edu). Living-Learning Community Location Theme Number of Students Courses Taken Together Features Include Eligible Applicants Engineering Magnolia Hall Engaging with global grand challenges while pursuing an engineering degree 30 5 credit hours Preparation for an engineering career focused on solving society’s grandest challenges; learning together as a community to think and write like engineers; courses that help students complete pre-engineering requirements and the Grand Challenges Scholars Program; leadership, research, community engagement, and employment opportunities Pre-engineering majors or students intending to major in engineering preferred Entrepreneurship and Innovation Deviney Hall Developing creative, technical and practical entrepreneurial skills to turn ideas into action 36 8 credit hours Presentations by guest entrepreneurs; start-up site visits; team projects; design thinking workshop; competitions; class in FSU's Innovation Hub Any first-year student Exploration and Discovery Bryan Hall Exploration and discovery of interests, majors, and career paths 64 5 credit hours Organized exploration of interests, academic majors, and career options; interactions with campus leaders and distinguished faculty; professional mentorship option Any first-year student FGEN Noles Bryan Hall Pathways to academic and professional success for first-generation college students from all majors 64 4 to 7 credit hours Personal and career development opportunities; courses in academic success strategies; community events; interaction with faculty; access to college life coaching, skills support, alumni mentors, and scholarship opportunities. Any first-generation and first-time-in-college student Florence Immersion Via de Neri, Florence Study Center, Italy Exploration and discovery of interests, majors, and career paths 23 5 credit hours per semester (fall and spring; summer TBA) Cultural and volunteer programs and colloquia/language classes designed to build leadership, cross-cultural, and Italian language skills and enrich the study abroad experience; living in shared apartments above the newly renovated FSU Florence Study Center First Year Abroad Florence students Global and Public Affairs Dorman Hall Understanding and impacting society at local, state, national, and global levels 38 5 credit hours Interaction with social science faculty; group discussions of politics, culture, and public policy; presentations by experts in global and public affairs; opportunities for global engagement through the Global Citizenship Certificate program. Social science majors or minors preferred Health Professions Reynolds Hall Exploring and preparing for careers in the health professions 44 1 credit hour Guided exploration of the health care field, academic majors, and career options; interactions with campus leaders, advisors, and distinguished faculty in health care; professional shadowing option Health-related majors only Music Cawthon Hall Exploring and preparing for careers in music 180 6 credit hours Concerts, jam sessions, and guest artists; practice and performance spaces; Spring Break study abroad option Music majors or minors only Nursing Wildwood Hall Exploring nursing as a major and a profession 30 2 credit hours Interactions with nursing faculty, nursing advisors and upper-division nursing majors Nursing majors preferred Social Justice Wildwood Hall Understanding social issues and leadership to create positive, sustainable change 25 9 credit hours Open and progressive discussions on race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, class, religion, ability, citizenship, political ideology, and other identities Any first-year student WIMSE Cawthon Hall Opportunity and community for women in STEM fields 33 2 credit hours Lab tours; paid, supervised research option; peer mentors; ongoing involvement and leadership opportunities after the WIMSE year Math, science, or engineering majors only Faculty Directors LLC Faculty Directors Find out more » LLC Courses LLC Courses Find out more » Frequently Asked Questions Is there an LLC for me? Yes! Check out the four LLCs that offer courses and other opportunities of value to any first-time-in-college 'Nole: Bryan Hall; Entrepreneurship and Innovation; Global and Public Affairs; and Social Justice. Five LLCs with career- or major-specific themes are also available; look for those if you’re a music or engineering major, if you're exploring nursing or another health profession, or if you're a woman majoring in math or science. Visit each LLC's website to discover which ones call your name, then apply for as many as you like. Applicants who are invited to more than one LLC at a time and who accept promptly may accept the invitation of their choice. Who is eligible to apply for LLCs? Any incoming first-time-in-college student may apply to one or more LLCs. Do LLC residents pay more? No. LLC residents pay no more than non-LLC residents for the same hall and room type. The most common room type in all LLCs, as in most on-campus halls available to new students, is a suite-style double with shared bathroom; the cost of this room type is fully paid for students who have an active Florida Pre-Paid Dormitory account. What are the required courses? In most LLCs, residents take one 1-credit-hour colloquium and one 3-hour course. In the colloquium, residents meet weekly to explore topics related to the LLC’s theme. The 3-credit-hour course is also theme-related and may fulfill a Liberal Studies requirement (courses required of all FSU students, regardless of major). How does selection work? For the Music Living-Learning Community, selection is based on the student's audition to the FSU College of Music or the School of Theatre and on their GPA. For all other LLCs, selection is based on a brief online essay application. 2022-2023 LLC Agreements Engineering Learning Community Agreement In accordance with Florida State University's Academic Honor System, I pledge that my responses to the written portion of my application are my own work. I understand that, if I am accepted as a member of the Engineering Learning Community at Magnolia Hall, I will have certain responsibilities and obligations. Among these are the following: RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS OF ANY LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY AT FLORIDA STATE I will respect and support others in the program as peers as best I can. I will be an active participant in the living-learning community (LLC).This includes enrolling in, attempting and earning a satisfactory/passing grade in all required fall and spring LLC courses.(Course requirements are outlined below.) I understand that if I am reassigned from the residence hall, whether in response to behavioral issues or at my own request, I will be removed from the LLC and my LLC courses. I understand that participation in the program and access to in–house courses are limited to students who receive and accept invitations to the LLC and who live in LLC space in the designated residence hall for the entire academic year. I understand that a change of major or other circumstances do not release me from the obligations of the LLC while I am assigned to a room in the LLC. I understand that, if I decide to leave the LLC before the end of the academic year, I will be reassigned to a room outside of the LLC which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. If I have a mutually requested roommate, I understand that my requested roommate and I will only be assigned together in the LLC if each of us meets all criteria and deadlines for (a) applying to the LLC; (b) requesting each other as roommates; and (c) being selected for and accepting an invitation to the same LLC. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF ENGINEERING LEARNING COMMUNITY RESIDENTS I agree to support the overall goals of the Engineering Learning Community: building a community of pre-engineering students engaging with global grand challenges. I will strive to maintain an appropriate full-time academic load and remain in good standing both semesters. I plan to pursue a major within the FAMU-FSU College of Engineering. REQUIRED COURSES EGN 1004L, First Year Engineering Laboratory, 1 credit taken in person at the FAMU–FSU College of Engineering HUM 1921, Engineering LLC Colloquium Class, 1 credit taken in person in the Magnolia Hall Classroom Spring Colloquium: EGS 3045, Exploring the Global Grand Challenges of Engineering, 3 credits (writing and social studies general education credits) taken in person in the Magnolia Hall classroom As a part of my formal application to become a member of the Engineering Learning Community at Magnolia Hall, I agree to comply with each of the requirements listed above. I understand that failure to abide by the terms of this agreement may result in reassignment to another available room within University Housing which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. Entrepreneurship and Innovation Learning Community Agreement In accordance with Florida State University's Academic Honor System, I pledge that my responses to the written portion of my application are my own work. I understand that, if I am accepted as a member of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Learning Community at Deviney Hall, I will have certain responsibilities and obligations. Among these are the following: RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS OF ANY LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY AT FLORIDA STATE I will respect and support others in the program as peers as best I can. I will be an active participant in the living-learning community (LLC).This includes enrolling in, attempting and earning a satisfactory/passing grade in all required fall and spring LLC courses.(Course requirements are outlined below.) I understand that if I am reassigned from the residence hall, whether in response to behavioral issues or at my own request, I will be removed from the LLC and my LLC courses. I understand that participation in the program and access to in–house courses are limited to students who receive and accept invitations to the LLC and who live in LLC space in the designated residence hall for the entire academic year. I understand that a change of major or other circumstances do not release me from the obligations of the LLC while I am assigned to a room in the LLC. I understand that, if I decide to leave the LLC before the end of the academic year, I will be reassigned to a room outside of the LLC which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. If I have a mutually requested roommate, I understand that my requested roommate and I will only be assigned together in the LLC if each of us meets all criteria and deadlines for (a) applying to the LLC; (b) requesting each other as roommates; and (c) being selected for and accepting an invitation to the same LLC. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND INNOVATION LEARNING COMMUNITY MEMBERS I agree to support the overall goal of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Learning Community (EILC): creating a safe, comfortable, and stimulating living-learning environment for first-year students. I will maintain an appropriate full-time academic load and remain in good standing both semesters. I will attend a one-hour EILC orientation session on the Thursday, Friday, OR Saturday before classes begin in August. Because this event is required of all new members, I will plan moving, travel, and activity schedules accordingly so that I can attend one of these sessions. REQUIRED RETREAT I will attend the required EILC half-day retreat to be held in early September. Additional information and the exact date will be announced in April. REQUIRED COURSES Fall and Spring Colloquium for one credit hour each semester. At least one three-credit-hour in-house course each semester. These courses will satisfy some of the Liberal Studies requirements for all undergraduate FSU students and are not expected to add additional credit hours to a student’s course load. As a part of my formal application to become a member of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Learning Community at Deviney Hall, I agree to comply with each of the requirements listed above. I understand that failure to abide by the terms of this agreement may result in reassignment to another available room within University Housing which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. Exploration and Discovery Learning Community Agreement In accordance with Florida State University's Academic Honor System, I pledge that my responses to the written portion of my application are my own work. I understand that, if I am accepted as a member of the Exploration and Discovery Learning Community, I will have certain responsibilities and obligations. Among these are the following: RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS OF ANY LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY AT FLORIDA STATE I will respect and support others in the program as peers as best I can. I will be an active participant in the living-learning community (LLC).This includes enrolling in, attempting and earning a satisfactory/passing grade in all required fall and spring LLC courses.(Course requirements are outlined below.) I understand that if I am reassigned from the residence hall, whether in response to behavioral issues or at my own request, I will be removed from the LLC and my LLC courses. I understand that participation in the program and access to in–house courses are limited to students who receive and accept invitations to the LLC and who live in LLC space in the designated residence hall for the entire academic year. I understand that a change of major or other circumstances do not release me from the obligations of the LLC while I am assigned to a room in the LLC. I understand that, if I decide to leave the LLC before the end of the academic year, I will be reassigned to a room outside of the LLC which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. If I have a mutually requested roommate, I understand that my requested roommate and I will only be assigned together in the LLC if each of us meets all criteria and deadlines for (a) applying to the LLC; (b) requesting each other as roommates; and (c) being selected for and accepting an invitation to the same LLC. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF EXPLORATION AND DISCOVERY LEARNING COMMUNITY RESIDENTS I agree to support the overall goal of the Exploration and Discovery Learning Community: creating a safe, comfortable, and stimulating living–learning environment for first–year students. I will maintain an appropriate full-time academic load and remain in good standing both semesters. I will attend a one–hour Exploration and Discovery orientation session on the Thursday, Friday, OR Saturday before classes begin in August. Because this event is required of all new members, I will plan moving, travel, and activity schedules accordingly in order to attend. I understand that this is a one-year program especially for new students, and that I will not be eligible to be a resident of Bryan Hall or the Exploration and Discovery LLC after one academic year. REQUIRED COURSES Fall: HUM 1921 (Learning Community Colloquium) AND one in-house course Spring: One in-house course OR a one-credit-hour mentorship As a part of my formal application to become a member of the Exploration and Discovery Learning Community, I agree to comply with each of the requirements listed above. I understand that failure to abide by the terms of this agreement may result in reassignment to another available room within University Housing which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. FGEN Noles Learning Community Agreement In accordance with Florida State University's Academic Honor System, I pledge that my responses to the written portion of my application are my own work. I understand that, if I am accepted as a member of the FGEN Noles Living-Learning Community, I will have certain responsibilities and obligations. Among these are the following: RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS OF ANY LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY AT FLORIDA STATE I will respect and support others in the program as peers as best I can. I will be an active participant in the living-learning community (LLC).This includes enrolling in, attempting and earning a satisfactory/passing grade in all required fall and spring LLC courses.(Course requirements are outlined below.) I understand that if I am reassigned from the residence hall, whether in response to behavioral issues or at my own request, I will be removed from the LLC and my LLC courses. I understand that participation in the program and access to in–house courses are limited to students who receive and accept invitations to the LLC and who live in LLC space in the designated residence hall for the entire academic year. I understand that a change of major or other circumstances do not release me from the obligations of the LLC while I am assigned to a room in the LLC. I understand that, if I decide to leave the LLC before the end of the academic year, I will be reassigned to a room outside of the LLC which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. If I have a mutually requested roommate, I understand that my requested roommate and I will only be assigned together in the LLC if each of us meets all criteria and deadlines for (a) applying to the LLC; (b) requesting each other as roommates; and (c) being selected for and accepting an invitation to the same LLC. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF FGEN NOLES LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY RESIDENTS I agree to support the overall goal of the FGEN Noles Living-Learning Community: creating a safe, inclusive, diverse, supportive, and academically engaging living–learning environment for first–generation college students. I agree to participate in a variety of mandatory academic and student support engagement activities, as required, over the course of my two-semester experience. I understand that I will be expected to complete a once per semester check-in meeting with a CARE staff member each semester until graduation. I will maintain an appropriate full-time academic load. I will attend a one-hour FGEN LLC orientation session on the Sunday before classes begin in August. Because this event is required of all new members, I will plan moving, travel, and activity schedules accordingly so that I can attend one of these sessions. REQUIRED FALL COURSES FGEN Noles Colloquium (HUM1921) for one credit hour One three-credit-hour in-house course REQUIRED SPRING EXPERIENCE Spring experience offerings will relate to personal and career development and will include a selection of several for-credit courses and not-for-credit activities; each LLC resident must select and complete one. As a part of my formal application to become a member of the FGEN Noles Living-Learning Community, I agree to comply with each of the requirements listed above. I understand that failure to abide by the terms of this agreement may result in reassignment to another available room within University Housing which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. Global and Public Affairs Learning Community Agreement In accordance with Florida State University's Academic Honor System, I pledge that my responses to the written portion of my application are my own work. I understand that, if I am accepted as a member of the Global and Public Affairs Learning Community at Dorman Hall, I will have certain responsibilities and obligations. Among these are the following: RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS OF ANY LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY AT FLORIDA STATE I will respect and support others in the program as peers as best I can. I will be an active participant in the living-learning community (LLC).This includes enrolling in, attempting and earning a satisfactory/passing grade in all required fall and spring LLC courses.(Course requirements are outlined below.) I understand that if I am reassigned from the residence hall, whether in response to behavioral issues or at my own request, I will be removed from the LLC and my LLC courses. I understand that participation in the program and access to in–house courses are limited to students who receive and accept invitations to the LLC and who live in LLC space in the designated residence hall for the entire academic year. I understand that a change of major or other circumstances do not release me from the obligations of the LLC while I am assigned to a room in the LLC. I understand that, if I decide to leave the LLC before the end of the academic year, I will be reassigned to a room outside of the LLC which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. If I have a mutually requested roommate, I understand that my requested roommate and I will only be assigned together in the LLC if each of us meets all criteria and deadlines for (a) applying to the LLC; (b) requesting each other as roommates; and (c) being selected for and accepting an invitation to the same LLC. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF GLOBAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS LEARNING COMMUNITY RESIDENTS I agree to support the overall goal of the Global and Public Affairs Learning Community: creating a safe, comfortable and stimulating living–learning environment for first-year students. I understand that this is a one-year program especially for new students, and that I will not be eligible to be a resident member of the Global and Public Affairs Learning Community after one academic year. REQUIRED COURSES Fall Public Affairs Colloquium (ISS 1921), one credit hour Global Perspectives (IDS 2431), three credit hours Spring Public Affairs Colloquium (ISS 1921), one credit hour As a part of my formal application to become a member of the Global and Public Affairs Learning Community at Dorman Hall, I agree to comply with each of the requirements listed above. I understand that failure to abide by the terms of this agreement may result in reassignment to another available room within University Housing which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. Health Professions Learning Community Agreement In accordance with Florida State University's Academic Honor System, I pledge that my responses to the written portion of my application are my own work. I understand that, if I am accepted as a member of the Health Professions Learning Community at Reynolds Hall, I will have certain responsibilities and obligations. Among these are the following: RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS OF ANY LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY AT FLORIDA STATE: I will respect and support others in the program as peers as best I can. I will be an active participant in the living-learning community (LLC).This includes enrolling in, attempting and earning a satisfactory/passing grade in all required fall and spring LLC courses.(Course requirements are outlined below.) I understand that if I am reassigned from the residence hall, whether in response to behavioral issues or at my own request, I will be removed from the LLC and my LLC courses. I understand that participation in the program and access to in–house courses are limited to students who receive and accept invitations to the LLC and who live in LLC space in the designated residence hall for the entire academic year. I understand that a change of major or other circumstances do not release me from the obligations of the LLC while I am assigned to a room in the LLC. I understand that, if I decide to leave the LLC before the end of the academic year, I will be reassigned to a room outside of the LLC which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. If I have a mutually requested roommate, I understand that my requested roommate and I will only be assigned together in the LLC if each of us meets all criteria and deadlines for (a) applying to the LLC; (b) requesting each other as roommates; and (c) being selected for and accepting an invitation to the same LLC. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF HEALTH PROFESSIONS LEARNING COMMUNITY RESIDENTS I understand that this is a one–year program designed for new students, and that I will not be eligible to be a resident member of the Health Professions Learning Community after one academic year unless I am selected to return as a sophomore mentor. REQUIRED COURSES FALL PET 1081: Health Professions Learning Community Colloquium 1 Credit Hour SPRING Shadow one health professional of your choice as approved by the faculty director(s). Meet with your assigned small group on an assigned basis to discuss and reflect in writing on shadowing experience by completing the assigned form. As a part of my formal application to become a member of the Health Professions Learning Community at Reynolds Hall, I agree to comply with each of the requirements listed above. I understand that failure to abide by the terms of this agreement may result in reassignment to another available room within University Housing which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. Music Learning Community Agreement I understand that, if I am accepted as a member of the Music Living-Learning Community (MLLC) at Cawthon Hall, I will have certain responsibilities and obligations. Among these are the following: RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS OF ANY LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY AT FLORIDA STATE I will respect and support others in the program as peers as best I can. I will be an active participant in the living-learning community (LLC).This includes enrolling in, attempting and earning a satisfactory/passing grade in all required fall and spring LLC courses.(Course requirements are outlined below.) I understand that if I am reassigned from the residence hall, whether in response to behavioral issues or at my own request, I will be removed from the LLC and my LLC courses. I understand that participation in the program and access to in–house courses are limited to students who receive and accept invitations to the LLC and who live in LLC space in the designated residence hall for the entire academic year. I understand that a change of major or other circumstances do not release me from the obligations of the LLC while I am assigned to a room in the LLC. I understand that, if I decide to leave the LLC before the end of the academic year, I will be reassigned to a room outside of the LLC which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. If I have a mutually requested roommate, I understand that my requested roommate and I will only be assigned together in the LLC if each of us meets all criteria and deadlines for (a) applying to the LLC; (b) requesting each other as roommates; and (c) being selected for and accepting an invitation to the same LLC. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MUSIC LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY RESIDENTS I agree to support the overall goal of the Music Living-Learning Community. I will major or minor in music or musical theatre. I understand that I may become ineligible for the Music Living-Learning Community and may be reassigned to another residence hall if I change my major to one other than in music or musical theatre. REQUIRED COURSES Each semester, I will enroll in the required Music Living–Learning Community Colloquium ("Cawthon Colloquium"), a special, zero- or one-credit, S/U course, and submit the required documentation of my participation in the meetings and presentations. I agree to attend and participate in the meetings and events of the Music Living-Learning Community and to attend the required number of special presentations for Music Living-Learning Community students selected from a list of events occurring throughout the year. I agree to enroll in at least one additional course per semester offered within the Music Living–Learning Community. I may take more than one course, if space is available. [Note: Each semester, courses will be offered that are part of the core curriculum for first and second–year music majors. Most music students will take their required music theory, sight singing and aural skills, class piano, or music literature course in Cawthon Hall.] As a part of my formal application to become a member of the Music Living-Learning Community at Cawthon Hall, I agree to comply with each of the requirements listed above. I understand that failure to abide by the terms of this agreement may result in reassignment to another available room within University Housing which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. Nursing Learning Community Agreement In accordance with Florida State University's Academic Honor System, I pledge that my responses to the written portion of my application are my own work. I understand that, if I am accepted as a member of the Nursing Learning Community at Wildwood Hall, I will have certain responsibilities and obligations. Among these are the following: RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS OF ANY LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY AT FLORIDA STATE: I will respect and support others in the program as peers as best I can. I will be an active participant in the living-learning community (LLC).This includes enrolling in, attempting and earning a satisfactory/passing grade in all required fall and spring LLC courses.(Course requirements are outlined below.) I understand that if I am reassigned from the residence hall, whether in response to behavioral issues or at my own request, I will be removed from the LLC and my LLC courses. I understand that participation in the program and access to in–house courses are limited to students who receive and accept invitations to the LLC and who live in LLC space in the designated residence hall for the entire academic year. I understand that a change of major or other circumstances do not release me from the obligations of the LLC while I am assigned to a room in the LLC. I understand that, if I decide to leave the LLC before the end of the academic year, I will be reassigned to a room outside of the LLC which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. If I have a mutually requested roommate, I understand that my requested roommate and I will only be assigned together in the LLC if each of us meets all criteria and deadlines for (a) applying to the LLC; (b) requesting each other as roommates; and (c) being selected for and accepting an invitation to the same LLC. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF NURSING LEARNING COMMUNITY RESIDENTS: I agree to support the overall goal of the Nursing Learning Community: to provide an atmosphere that encourages the development of the professionalism associated with the career of nursing. REQUIRED COURSES I will enroll in the required colloquium course, HUM1921, each semester. As a part of my formal application to become a member of the Nursing Learning Community at Wildwood Hall, I agree to comply with each of the requirements listed above. I understand that failure to abide by the terms of this agreement may result in reassignment to another available room within University Housing which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. Social Justice Learning Community Agreement In accordance with Florida State University's Academic Honor System, I pledge that my responses to the written portion of my application are my own work. I understand that, if I am accepted as a member of the Social Justice Learning Community (SJLC) at Wildwood Hall, I will have certain responsibilities and obligations. Among these are the following: RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS OF ANY LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY AT FLORIDA STATE I will respect and support others in the program as peers as best I can. I will be an active participant in the living-learning community (LLC).This includes enrolling in, attempting and earning a satisfactory/passing grade in all required fall and spring LLC courses.(Course requirements are outlined below.) I understand that if I am reassigned from the residence hall, whether in response to behavioral issues or at my own request, I will be removed from the LLC and my LLC courses. I understand that participation in the program and access to in–house courses are limited to students who receive and accept invitations to the LLC and who live in LLC space in the designated residence hall for the entire academic year. I understand that a change of major or other circumstances do not release me from the obligations of the LLC while I am assigned to a room in the LLC. I understand that, if I decide to leave the LLC before the end of the academic year, I will be reassigned to a room outside of the LLC which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. If I have a mutually requested roommate, I understand that my requested roommate and I will only be assigned together in the LLC if each of us meets all criteria and deadlines for (a) applying to the LLC; (b) requesting each other as roommates; and (c) being selected for and accepting an invitation to the same LLC. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF SOCIAL JUSTICE LEARNING COMMUNITY RESIDENTS I agree to support the overall goal of the Social Justice Learning Community: to live, learn and explore social activism, social change and the philosophical foundations of justice. I will participate in SJLC co–curricular programming to include: required fall and spring leadership learning retreats, service to the community, guest speakers in Wildwood Hall, and social justice excursions to learn about local community change efforts. REQUIRED RETREATS Two required weekend retreats a Saturday—Sunday retreat in the Fall and a Friday—Saturday retreat in the Spring. Dates will be announced in late April. REQUIRED COURSES Fall (2 courses) IFS 2021: Social Responsibility — Rhetorically Speaking. This 3 credit–hour e–series course will be specifically tailored to include social justice curriculum content and can be taken either fall or spring semester. This course will meet the oral communication requirement. LDR 2213: Leadership in Social Justice. This 3 credit–hour course is an interactive, dynamic theory–to–practice course focused on exploring the breadth and depth of social justice issues. This course qualifies as a supporting course for the Certificate in Leadership Studies. Spring (2 courses) IFS 2021: Social Responsibility — Rhetorically Speaking. This 3 credit–hour e–series course will be specifically tailored to include social justice curriculum content and can be taken either fall or spring semester. This course will meet the oral communication requirement. LDR 2210 Leadership Through Intergroup Dialogue. This 3 credit–hour course is designed as a capstone experience for the Social Justice Learning Community focused on leadership and dialogue in the context of social justice and change. This course qualifies as a supporting course for the Certificate in Leadership Studies. As a part of my formal application to become a member of the Social Justice Learning Community at Wildwood Hall, I agree to comply with each of the requirements listed above. I understand that failure to abide by the terms of this agreement may result in reassignment to another available room within University Housing which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. WIMSE Agreement In accordance with Florida State University's Academic Honor System, I pledge that my responses to the written portion of my application are my own work. I understand that, if I am accepted as a member of the Women in Math, Science and Engineering Learning Community at Cawthon Hall (WIMSE), I will have certain responsibilities and obligations. Among these are the following: RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS OF ANY LIVING-LEARNING COMMUNITY AT FLORIDA STATE I will respect and support others in the program as peers as best I can. I will be an active participant in the living-learning community (LLC).This includes enrolling in, attempting and earning a satisfactory/passing grade in all required fall and spring LLC courses.(Course requirements are outlined below.) I understand that if I am reassigned from the residence hall, whether in response to behavioral issues or at my own request, I will be removed from the LLC and my LLC courses. I understand that participation in the program and access to in–house courses are limited to students who receive and accept invitations to the LLC and who live in LLC space in the designated residence hall for the entire academic year. I understand that a change of major or other circumstances do not release me from the obligations of the LLC while I am assigned to a room in the LLC. I understand that, if I decide to leave the LLC before the end of the academic year, I will be reassigned to a room outside of the LLC which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. If I have a mutually requested roommate, I understand that my requested roommate and I will only be assigned together in the LLC if each of us meets all criteria and deadlines for (a) applying to the LLC; (b) requesting each other as roommates; and (c) being selected for and accepting an invitation to the same LLC. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF WIMSE RESIDENTS I authorize the director of WIMSE or designee to review my academic records periodically to provide support when needed and ensure continued eligibility for WIMSE. I will attend the overnight WIMSE Welcome Retreat held the Friday afternoon through Saturday morning before classes begin in August. Since this event is required of all new members, I will plan moving, travel, and activity schedules accordingly. I will major in science, mathematics, or engineering. I understand that I will become ineligible for WIMSE and may be reassigned to another residence hall if I change my major to one other than in science, mathematics, or engineering. I will give priority to WIMSE activities over the activities of other student organizations such as sororities and clubs. Please note: students interested in joining a social sorority may have conflicts between the sorority recruitment schedule and the mandatory WIMSE Welcome Retreat. WIMSE and Greek Life have made efforts to minimize these conflicts but it is ultimately up to the student to manage her involvement in both of these activities effectively. Specific information will be available at WIMSE orientation, and we encourage students to thoroughly consider these opportunities and make informed commitments. I will not withdraw from (drop) my math or science course without receiving permission from the WIMSE director. REQUIRED COURSES I will enroll in the one–credit–hour WIMSE Colloquium during both the Fall and Spring semesters. I will enroll in a mathematics course (unless I have satisfied the math requirements for my major) and an appropriate science or engineering course during both the Fall and Spring semesters. This requirement ensures that students will have early exposure to challenging classes while in the supportive WIMSE community and will have many WIMSE peers in some of the same courses. As a part of my formal application to become a member of WIMSE at Cawthon Hall, I agree to comply with each of the requirements listed above. I understand that failure to abide by the terms of this agreement may result in reassignment to another available room within University Housing which is not guaranteed to be in the same residence hall. How to Apply in 2022 Those applying by April 11 qualified for priority consideration, but any first-year student with an active Fall/Spring housing contract may apply as an alternate after applications reopen on April 27, 2022. Each year, over 100 alternates are invited into LLCs. To apply for one or more LLCs on FSU's Tallahassee campus for Fall 2022: Carefully read the LLC agreement for the LLC of interest to you; if you have any questions or concerns about anything in the agreement, contact that LLC’s faculty director for clarification. Skip this step when applying to the Music LLC. Compose a brief response to each of the prompts provided, limiting your entire response to fewer than 5800 characters or 1000 words. Submit your LLC application between Wednesday and Saturday. Repeat Steps 1 through 3 to apply for additional LLCs if you wish. Log back into the LLC application on the Wednesday after you apply to check your updated status: If your LLC application status is "Invited," click "Accept" before 11:59 p.m. EDT that Saturday, to secure your space in the LLC. If your status is "Alternate," check it again weekly online, and check your FSU email account daily. If invited to any LLC, you must accept promptly or forfeit your invitation. The application process and deadlines are different for First Year Abroad students applying for the Florence Immersion LLC, for Music LLC students applying to return for a second year in their LLC, and for students applying to join any LLC in the spring. For more information, please email Denise Mercier at dmercier@fsu.edu. Living-Learning Community Application Prompts For all LLCs except Music and Florence Immersion, applicants will submit brief responses to each of these prompts. Please limit your entire response to fewer than 5800 characters or 1000 words. Students in any LLC can expect to meet and spend time with like-minded people. What other benefits do you expect to gain by participating in this particular LLC? If you have chosen a major, what led you to this choice? If you have not yet chosen a major, which majors appeal to you and why? What was your favorite high school class and why? What was your least favorite high school class and why? What does it mean to you to be part of a diverse community? Please provide an email address and a phone number where we can best reach you in either of these situations: Based on this written application, some applicants to the Social Justice or WIMSE LLCs will be invited to participate in a phone interview with an LLC student or staff member; final acceptance into WIMSE or SoJust is based on both the written application and the interview. If you are chosen for an interview, we will notify you by email. If you are selected as an alternate for any LLC, we may need to contact you very quickly by email or phone when a space becomes available. If you are invited by email or phone, you must accept promptly or forfeit your invitation. Contact Us Denise Mercier Living–Learning Coordinator Tel: (850) 644-2860 dmercier@fsu.edu Living Learning Communities Return to top of page University Housing Department Division of Student Affairs 109 Askew Student Life Building Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: 850–644–2860 Fax: 850–644–7997 Email: housing@fsu.edu University Housing: Facebook Instagram Twitter © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media