Header Menu Coronavirus: COVID-19 Housing Options Undergraduate Housing Graduate Housing Living Learning & Theme Communities Gender-Inclusive Housing Disability Accommodations Room Types Housing Tours Upper Campus Housing Map Lower Campus Housing Map Apply & Reserve Process Timeline Scholarships International Students Waitlist Break Housing Rates & Your Housing Account Student Record Privacy Optional Services Moving In / Out Moving In Moving Out Room Changes UCREW Living @ the U Living @ the U Desk & Mail Services Get Involved Equity Lounge & Living Room Resident Policies & Responsibilities Safety, Security & Support Emergency Procedures & Evacuation Getting Connected: Cable & Internet Parking & Transportation Dining Dining Using Your Meal Plan Dining Locations Dining Forms Archive – Dining Committee About Us Mission / Values Staff Directory Contact Us HRE Living Room Blog Maps & Directions Employment Opportunities Venue Reservations Advertise with HRE Announcements Sustainability Search Site Powered by the University of Utah Powered by Search Campus Housing & Residential Education U of U COVID-19 Self-Report Form HRE Waitlist Information HRE has reached capacity for on-campus housing at the University of Utah for the 2022-2023 academic year. While housing is not guaranteed, we know that securing housing is a priority for our students. Learn more about our waitlist process and dated updates. HRE Waitlist COVID-19 Updates Updates for HRE residents & answers to FAQs. Learn More Black Lives Matter. HRE condemns racism and hate in all forms. We are committed to social justice & inclusion. Learn More Undergraduate Housing Explore the varying housing options for undergraduate students Learn More Racist & Bias Incident Response Team RBIRT oversees the creation, implementation, and long-term success of university protocols, programs, and processes to provide appropriate and calculated responses to incidents involving bias and racism on campus. Incidents & Updates Housing & Residential Education creates an engaging community where students live, learn, and thrive. We develop a sense of belonging, provide opportunities for personal growth, and foster a safe and supportive environment. Our team aims to make the University of Utah feel like home. HOW TO APPLY HOUSING OPTIONS UNDERGRADUATE Undergraduate students have the added benefit of being able to be part of a specific program where you will be able to dive deeper into an area of interest such as entrepreneurship, Honors program, social justice, community service and more. LIVING LEARNING COMMUNITIES One way to deepen your engagement in Housing at the U is through a variety of special living options; Living Learning Communities (LLCs) and Themed Communities (TCs). Each type of special living option is designed to bring students with similar interests, majors, goals, and experiences together. GRADUATE Housing & Residential Education is able to support graduate students in a variety of housing locations: Lassonde Studios, Downtown Commons 1, and Downtown Commons 2. Graduate students need to maintain continual enrollment throughout the academic year and summer. Looking for your home off campus? Visit the following pages for more information on additional housing options including Family Housing or Off-Campus Housing. View Housing Map RESOURCES MAINTENANCE REQUEST Need something fixed in your room? Submit a maintenance request here at any time. INCIDENT REPORT Want to report a policy violation or concern within your community? Click here to submit your report. GUEST REGISTRATION Have a guest coming to visit? Register them now in Housing U in CIS. Our central office is open to walk-in guests Monday-Friday from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. We are also available to answer your housing questions via phone and email. Email: info@housing.utah.edu Telephone: 801-587-2002 Quick Links Application & Reservation Process Housing Map Living @ the U Contact Us Staff Housing & Residential Education 5 Heritage Center Benchmark Bldg. 822 SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84112 801-587-2002 The Fine Print Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy info@housing.utah.edu © 2022 THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Media Contacts