skip to: page content | footer (site information) TTU Home University Student Housing Solicitation Request Form Request for Selling, Solicitation, or Distribution of Printed Materials in the Residence Halls University Student Housing Please read the following policy and procedures before completing the form below: Solicitation Policies Only TTU departments or Student Organizations registered through the Center for Campus Life shall be permitted to table/advertise within the residence halls. The name of the sponsoring department and/or recognized student organization must be visible on all written materials distributed. Please attach a copy to this form. The student organization or department must complete this form and submit it at least five (5) business days in advance for approval. Posters and Printed Materials: Posters, signs and announcement must be submitted to the Residence Life Office, located in Wiggins, Room 104F. Upon approval, materials will be distributed to residence hall staff to post. Posting may take 2-3 days following delivery. No organization or department may post their own materials within the residence halls. Only 22 copies will be accepted per event, except when sponsored by university departments or University Student Housing. Posters, signs, and announcements shall not promote the use of alcoholic beverages, tobacco, illegal drugs, or promote unauthorized sponsorship by Texas Tech University. Advertisement is not permitted on the exterior side of the residence hall room doors or within public areas of the residence halls unless approved by University Student Housing. Posters, signs, and announcements may be displayed only on residence hall bulletin boards provided for that purpose. Student election campaign literature must conform to the procedures established by the Student Elections Commission of the Student Government Association. Posters may not exceed a maximum size of 11" X 17". Posters, announcements, banners, cards or other campaign material for any individuals seeking public office may not be posted or displayed on, or in, any public residence hall area. Campaign material for individuals seeking public office may be posted only in individual's assigned residence hall room. All posters, signs and announcements must have a departmental logo included in the printed media if affiliated with a university college or department. Tabling Student organizations are limited to table set-up approval of no more than twice a semester, not to exceed three days each time. Selection of multiple residence halls on the same request will equal multiple days (i.e. Tabling in Gates and Horn on the same day will equal two days.) Residence Life will provide up to one table and two chairs, if available. Tabling events must only promote TTU departmental or registered student organization involvement. Promotion of events where alcohol will be served is not permitted. No more than 3 student/faculty/staff may be staffing the table at any point. Those staffing the table must stay in publicly accessible areas within the hall. Groups are responsible for cleaning up any mess or trash created by their tabling. Groups must obtain proper temporary food service permits from the Environmental Health & Safety office if food will be distributed from the table. Fundraising and Collection Drives: To help ensure compliance with university and departmental policy, and to help create student engagement, all collection drives or fundraising events must be co-sponsered by a residence life student organization or professional staff member. Following the submission of this form, a copy will be sent to the Residence Halls Association for discussion. You may be invited to attend a RHA meeting to present your idea for discussion and voting by student officers. USH and/or the partnering student organizations logo must be included on all printed materials about the collection drive. Length of the collection drive may vary based on need and space availability. All fundraising events must support non-profit organizations. Collected money should not be used to fund organizational budgets, operations, or events. Violations A student or registered student organization violating regulations governing solicitations, advertising, and printed materials is subject to disciplinary sanctions, conditions, and/or restrictions outlined in the Code of Student Conduct. The University Student Housing department may impose restrictions on the time, place and manner for distribution of printed materials. Please note that this policy is not all inclusive. Policies contained in the Student Handbook, Part K: Selling, Solicitation, and Printed Materials must be followed at all times. University Student Housing Wiggins Complex, 3211 18th Street Box 41141, Lubbock, TX 79409 Tel: 806.742.2661 Fax: 806.742.2696 housing@ttu.edu Online Institutional Resumes State of Texas | Statewide Search | Texas Homeland Security | Texas Veterans Portal | SAO Fraud Reporting | Energy Management | General Policy Information TTU Home | TTU System | TTU Health Sciences Center | Angelo State University | TTU Health Sciences Center at El Paso | Contact Us ©2019 Texas Tech University | All Rights Reserved | Last updated: January 29, 2016 1:45pm.