Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us Questions Search by term, phrase, or question Filter Expand Filters Audience Type Prospective Student Current Student Transfer Student Bridge Student Family Faculty & Staff Conference Coordinator Question Type Process Date/Deadline Event Location Contact Rules Information Category COVID-19 Roommate(s) Room/Residence Hall Sign-Up Move-in Move-Out Dining Employment Student Programs/Involvement Residential Experience (LLCs) Fraternities & Sororities Summer Housing Services & Resources CCIT & Tech Support List icon LIST Grid GRID Sorry! There are no results that fit your search criteria. Please try another set of options. Where can I buy linens and other supplies? divider View Answer Where can I find information about living off campus? www.clemsonoffcampus.com divider View Answer I’m graduating, do I need to move out before graduation? divider View Answer How Can I Loft My Bed? divider View Answer When do I need to move out? Fall: You will move out the Saturday after final exams. divider View Answer Can I stay later than the last day of move out in May? divider View Answer I’m an athlete and need to stay on campus after the move out deadline. What should I do? The Athletic Department will provide all documentation for athletes who need late stay approval. If you are an athlete and unsure of your late stay approval, please contact your sport’s […] divider View Answer Can I mail items to the University ahead of my move in? divider View Answer Where can I find information about housing and meal plans for Summer Session? You can learn more about Summer Session housing and dining options on our Summer Session Housing Information page. divider View Answer What happens if my key breaks? Turn in both pieces to the community desk. You must turn in the top part of your key, which reads “State of S.C.; Do Not Duplicate.” Check out a temporary […] divider View Answer What transportation is available? Getting around on campus is usually pretty easy, with most locations being under a 15-minute walk, but for the further destinations and even off-campus trips, Clemson offers a wide range […] divider View Answer Can I be released from my housing contract and move off campus in December? The University housing contract is a legally binding document, and it is for the academic year (Aug. May). Students are encouraged first to contact their Community staff with concerns regarding […] divider View Answer What Do I Do If It’s Too Hot In My Room When I Move In? divider View Answer What Should I Bring? Visit our Move-in page and check the what to bring section. divider View Answer When will I select my housing assignment? Selection times are different for Bridge, First Year, Continuing and Transfer students, please check our events for the latest information. divider View Answer Where can I view my housing assignment? Once you have selected your housing assignment, you may view your assignment at anytime on the Housing Portal. divider View Answer May I request another incoming first-year student as a roommate? Yes. You will have the option to request up to three roommates of your choice. You will create and confirm your roommate group in step one of the sign-up process. divider View Answer If I’m unhappy with my selected room or roommate, can I get it changed before school opens? How? It is our goal to make everyone happy with their room and roommate assignment. Even after assignments are made, we will continue to work to accommodate your preferences. If you […] divider View Answer Do I have to live on campus? All unmarried, first-year and Bridge students who are under the age of 21 at the time of enrollment who do not live with parent(s) or legal guardian(s) [within Anderson, Oconee […] divider View Answer How Can I Decorate Without Command Strips*? While we know that Command Strips have become a staple for college housing, we have started to see damage in some of our res halls after constant long-term use of […] divider View Answer Can I book a practice field for my camp? Contact Donna Owens at Fike Recreation Center to reserve a practice field for your group. divider View Answer How do I sign up for a meal plan? Meal Plans may be selected as part of the housing contract. If you are not living on-campus and would like to purchase a meal plan you may do so in […] divider View Answer How can we access Fike Recreation Center? Contact Fike Recreation Center to set up memberships/passes. divider View Answer Do you provide linens for summer camps & conferences? No. You will be responsible for bringing your own linens (bedding, towels, pillows, etc). divider View Answer What does my residence hall look like? All information regarding residence halls (dimensions, bed size, pictures, etc.) can be found on our Residence Hall list page divider View Answer How do I schedule a move-in appointment? Move-In Appointments are only required for the Fall semester and Summer 2 Session for Summer Start students. First-Year and Bridge students may select an appointment immediately following Room Selection. Continuing […] divider View Answer Can you put lanyards on my keys during my summer camp or conference? No. We are no longer able to put lanyards on keys for any groups. We are happy to set up an additional table at check in so your staff can […] divider View Answer Where can we park on campus for summer camps & conferences? Contact Parking Services for information on parking passes and reserving lots for big check ins. divider View Answer Where are the ATMs located on campus? Bryan Mall Circle ATM Bank: Bank of America ATM; Founders Credit Union ATM, beside Byrnes Hall Hendrix Student Center: Founders Credit Union ATM located to the right of the main entrance […] divider View Answer What if I need to remain on campus during a holiday break? Sometimes it’s impossible or impractical for our students to travel home during breaks. Residence halls and apartments are open over spring and fall breaks as well as the Thanksgiving holiday. […] divider View Answer How am I allowed to decorate my room? What to Bring-Recommended Packing List We encourage you to get creative with your room and figure out ways to make it your own. There are plenty of options and you […] divider View Answer How can I get telephone service in my room or apartment? University Housing does not provide this type of service. If you would like telephone service in your room or apartment, you may contact the Telecommunications Office by submitting a help […] divider View Answer What size are the beds in the residence hall rooms? Most beds in all residential communities are extra-long twin beds and require extra-long twin bed sheets. However, there are two exception! The beds in the West Neighborhood of Douthit Hills […] divider View Answer Who do I contact about a MicroFridge? You may visit Collegiate Concepts to rent a MicroFridge. Limited numbers of MicroFridge units will be available at our onsite location in the parking lot behind Sikes Hall during move-in. Cash and check […] divider View Answer Can I smoke in my residence hall room or apartment? Clemson University is a tobacco free campus. See Clemson University policy. divider View Answer May I bring my own refrigerator? You may keep a refrigerator in your room if it’s no larger than 3.6 cubic feet. If you do not have your own refrigerator and would like one, a combination […] divider View Answer What do I do if something is wrong in the room? If you need to report a problem, please fill out a maintenance request. For emergency service after these hours, please contact the Resident Assistant on call. divider View Answer Can I have a pet? Yes, FISH ONLY! And only in a 10 gallon or smaller aquarium. Service animals are permitted with approval through our Student Accessibility Services divider View Answer If I have questions once I’ve settled in, who can answer these? All university housing facilities are staffed with Resident Assistants and a Graduate Community Director. Generally Resident Assistants are undergraduate students living on the floor with total responsibility for that area. Graduate […] divider View Answer How is housing priority established? New Students housing priority for all is based on the admissions application date to the University, and not the housing application date. Continuing Students/Bridge: Priority is based on the number […] divider View Answer How can I find out what my Post Office Box number is? Is this associated with housing? Your PO Box assignment will be sent via email sometime prior to your arrival with detailed information pertaining to your PO Box. You may contact the Student Mail Services for […] divider View Answer When are Housing applications due? For Fall semester, housing applications are usually due: This month for first year and transfer students This month for continuing and Bridge students For Spring semester, housing applications are due: […] divider View Answer How can I get my post office box? If you live on-campus, you will be automatically assigned a PO Box. The rental is valid for the entire academic year. divider View Answer Can we have opposite sex overnight guests in our rooms? Visitation hours in all campus residential areas are set by mutual agreement among roommates or suitemates at the beginning of each year or when occupancy changes. The roommate’s expectation of […] divider View Answer What if I lock myself out of my room or apartment? Every residential community has a community desk, which is staffed from 7:30 a.m. (ET) to 7:30 p.m. (ET) The Resident Assistant or Desk Assistant at the community desk can help […] divider View Answer Where is card access available? Card access is available in every residence hall, mostly on exterior doors. Also, in our apartment communities, card access is available on the exterior doors of the commons buildings. divider View Answer Can we have a microwave, toaster oven or hot plate in our rooms? Review the University Housing Rules and Regulations for the complete policy. divider View Answer If I have concerns about my living situation, can I request a room change? An important part of living in a residential community is learning to live with a roommate(s). We encourage residents to move in, get to know one another, and complete a […] divider View Answer What if I do not receive a timeslot with my priority number on February 3? divider View Answer When can I move into my room? Can I move in early? August Move InAfter you select your housing assignment in May, you will be able to select a move-in weekend appointment in mid-June. Additional information will be available following room selection […] divider View Answer How can I get Card Access to my Chapter Hall? All non-resident chapter members have access to the chapter hall from 8AM-12AM seven days a week, while residents can access the chapter hall 24/7. New members gain access to the […] divider View Answer How and can I Move onto my Chapter Hall? Please reach out to your chapter’s House Manager or Chapter President and discuss your desire to live on the chapter hall. While Fraternity Sorority Housing is set up similar to […] divider View Answer When can I move onto my Chapter Hall? Chapter members must have completed one semester at a college or university before they are eligible to live on the Chapter Hall. New freshmen may not reside in Fraternity Sorority […] divider View Answer How can the Chapter get a composite hung on the Chapter Hall? Identify location(s) on the wall for the composite(s) to be hung: Place a Post-it with a description of the composite, i.e. 2019-2020 Label where the composite will be for safe […] divider View Answer How can our Chapter update/upgrade our Chapter Space? Chapter space renovations are cyclical from National Headquarters just as with any organization, even University Housing. If your chapter finds that you would like to look into a renovation of […] divider View Answer Can I reserve a meeting space for my group? Yes. If your group is less than 40 people, email cuhsp@clemson.edu or call 864-656-7866 to reserve a meeting space. Meeting spaces are $100/day. If you have a group of 40+ […] divider View Answer I am no longer a member, how can I move off the Chapter Hall? Contact your chapter president and indicate your intent to leave the chapter. University Housing will not move a resident out of Fraternity Sorority Housing as long as the member is […] divider View Answer How can we access Fike Recreation Center? Call Fike Recreation Center (864-656-3453) to set up memberships/passes. divider View Answer Our Chapter has terminated the membership of a chapter member, what is the next step for a room change? The chapter president will review membership status with the member and will update their membership status in the University’s Greek Roster System to “terminated”. The chapter president should then reach […] divider View Answer What does my residence hall look like? Any information regarding residence halls (dimensions, bed size, pictures, etc.) can be found here: https://housing.clemson.edu/housing/buildings/ divider View Answer How do I access our Chapter’s storage cage? Fraternity Sorority Housing works with the chapters living in the Quad to provide additional chapter storage in the basement of Wannamaker Hall. This storage is accessible to chapter members who […] divider View Answer Can my group receive mail on campus? No. Additional charges will occur if we receive any of your mail on campus. divider View Answer Can I sublease my room to another chapter member? The University Housing Contract is personal and may not be transferred or assigned to another person. The space may not be sublet. Once the contract term has begun, University Housing […] divider View Answer Where can I use my meal plan? Meal swipes can be used at any time at the two dining halls on campus – Schilletter and The Fresh Food Co. dining halls – which offer an all-you-care-to-eat dining […] divider View Answer Do I need to buy a meal plan? First-year students who live in University Housing are required to select one of the unlimited meal plans for the first two semesters. Continuing Students and Commuters may select any of […] divider View Answer Will my meal plan auto renew for next semester? The meal plan that you chose for the fall semester will automatically be added to your spring university bill. You are able to go into the Clemson Home Portal to […] divider View Answer Will unused meal swipes or Paw Points rollover? All meals swipes will expire at the end of each semester. All guest meals will expire at the end of each semester. Paw Points roll over from semester to semester […] divider View Answer Will unused Paw Points rollover? Yes. Paw Points roll over from semester to semester until you graduate, withdraw, or transfer from the University; however, any open account will be closed after 18 months of inactivity. divider View Answer What are Paw Points and where can I use them? Paw Points Policy Paw Points are a purchased value (1 Paw Point = $1.00) and are stored on the TigerOne Card and can be used on campus. Purchased Paw Point […] divider View Answer How am I notified of my housing assignment? Students who complete Housing Contracts by the deadlines participate in Room Selection. Once a room is selected by the student or their roommate, they are immediately notified by email to […] divider View Answer Are single rooms available? There are very limited single rooms in Gressette Hall and Douthit East are the only buildings with singles for New Students. Single apartments and apartments with private bedrooms are available […] divider View Answer How do I get my Clemson login info? To activate your Clemson University Username: You will need your Clemson University CUID (for example, C12345678), which can be found in your Admitted Student Portal. You will need your Username […] divider View Answer Where Can I Get a Bed Rail? divider View Answer Can I keep the same room the following year? A large percentage of spaces are designated for new students so you should expect to select a different space for the next academic year. divider View Answer Do I need to pay the University’s admissions deposit before I sign up for Housing? All incoming freshmen and transfer students must pay a nonrefundable $200 deposit prior to applying for housing. Please allow 24 hours to process. Deposits must be paid online* at iroar.clemson.edu The […] divider View Answer How do I find a roommate? In step one of the housing sign up process, you may search for potential roommates as well as create a roommate group once you have identified your preferred roommates. Do not worry if you do […] divider View Answer When does roommate selection need to be completed? All roommate groups must be set in the Housing Contract by the deadline. divider View Answer I’m transferring, studying abroad, or joined a co-op but I already signed up for Housing for the next academic year. What should I do? divider View Answer What is a Faculty-in-Residence (FIR)? Clemson University Housing breathed new life into an old concept, faculty members living among students in residence halls on campus. The Faculty-in-Residence Program at Clemson University is a structured […] divider View Answer Where are Faculty-In-Residence located? We currently have active faculty-in-residence programs in the Holmes/McCabe Community, the Shoeboxes, Mickel/Gressette, Honors Residential College, Fraternity & Sorority Housing, Lightsey Bridge, and Calhoun Courts/Thornhill Village. divider View Answer When are Faculty-In-Residences selected? When we have openings, we invite faculty to apply for the FIR program during the spring semester. We send out notice of vacancies through campus-wide email and the Clemson Home […] divider View Answer What is a Faculty Friend? We invite faculty to participate in the Faculty Friends initiative to engage with first-year residents through intentional interactions that invite self-exploration and understanding of what it means to live in […] divider View Answer When are Faculty Friends selected? We invite faculty to apply for the Faculty Friend program late in the spring semester via campus email and the Clemson Home web page. divider View Answer What is a Resident Assistant (RA)? RAs serve students in our residential communities in a variety of roles we have identified as leaders, role models, critical thinkers, peer educators, and community builders. RAs practice leadership through […] divider View Answer What are the benefits of being a Resident Assistant (RA)? We believe an intentional residential experience is transformative. RAs are a vital part of that experience. Through facilitating the Residential Experience Model (REM) , Resident Assistants will mentor residents to […] divider View Answer Do Resident Assistants (RAs) receive payment or other benefits? RAs are paid on a stipend basis with stipend amount of $4,020.00 for the academic year 2019-20. A meal plan, valued at $2,100, is provided as a means to allow […] divider View Answer What is the expected weekly workload of a Resident Assistant (RA)? RAs are paid for 13.5 hours of work each week, and every week looks a little bit different. Each community has a weekly two hour staff meeting. RAs also spend […] divider View Answer I’m thinking about applying to be a Resident Assistant (RA). Do I get to pick my community? The decision of your placement offer is made by our placement team through intentional consideration of your application and interview process, seeking the best candidate for each open position within […] divider View Answer I saw that Resident Assistants (RAs) have to take a 3-credit class. Is it required? What if I can’t take it in the spring with my course load? Resident Assistants will take EDC 3900: Student Development, Leadership, and Counseling for the University Paraprofessional as a pre-service requirement of employment. EDC 3900 is a three-hour credit course, and an […] divider View Answer Can I be a Resident Assistant (RA) and hold another position? A Resident Assistant is first committed to their RA role and responsibilities. Additional time commitments such as significant leadership opportunities, academic engagements, and additional employment, are secondary to the RA […] divider View Answer How do I apply to be a Resident Assistant? More general information and link to calendar The application opens each year during the fall semester and can be found here. divider View Answer I have more questions about being a Resident Assistance (RA), who should I contact? Please direct any questions to RASelection@clemson.edu. divider View Answer What is a Living-Learning Community (LLC)? Living-Learning Communities are a group of students living together in designated space on campus based on common interest, shared major or connected coursework. LLCs have dedicated resources and engaged partners […] divider View Answer What is the Residential Experience Model (REM)? REM, or the Residential Experience Model, is a curricular approach to the learning that students experience outside of the classroom. We believe that our residential halls and apartments are opportunities […] divider View Answer What is a CUID Number? CUID refers to your Clemson University Identification Number. It’s a unique number that begins with a C and serves as your student ID number. Note: this number can be found […] divider View Answer Why does Clemson Home use the Residential Experience Model (REM)? We believe an intentional residential experience is transformative. When we talk with our students, they often share the valuable lessons they learned from living on campus, whether it is interacting […] divider View Answer Is the Residential Experience Model (REM) specific to Clemson? Since the University of Delaware instituted the first residential curriculum in 2007, hundreds of colleges and universities across the country have developed similar models. Each curricular model is designed to […] divider View Answer What’s A User ID? After your acceptance, you will receive instructions on how to create your Clemson University computer user identification. This is a permanent, unique-to-you identifier that you will use every time you […] divider View Answer Does the Residential Experience Model (REM) work? Since adopting REM in 2013, we have found many benefits to our work, specifically around four areas. First, we have been better stewards of our resources by focusing more on […] divider View Answer What’s my password and how can I change it? If you are a new student, you will establish your initial password during the onboarding process. You can change your password at any time by using the Password Change Utility. Learn […] divider View Answer Where can I find Graduate or Family Housing? Clemson University does not have a formal Graduate or Family Housing on-campus community. Individual contracts for on-campus apartments are available on a limited basis. Please email us directly at clemsonhome@clemson.edu. […] divider View Answer What is a Tiger Talk? A Tiger Talk is a guided conversation your Resident Assistant will have with you at various points of the year. These conversations are intended to get to know you better […] divider View Answer What is the purpose of the EDSA 3900 class? The EDSA 3900 class is a 3-credit hour course that all Resident Assistants (RA) are required to take. This course focuses on student development theory, leadership, and counseling skills for […] divider View Answer I am under 18, what’s a Parent Guarantor? A Parent Guarantor allows a parent/guardian to electronically co-sign the University Housing Contract for a student who is under the age of 18 at the time they sign-up for on-campus […] divider View Answer Is there a textbook for the EDSA 3900 class? The textbook for the course is Leadership for a Better World by Komives & Wagner (2nd Edition). It is available for free through the Clemson University online library. Additional readings […] divider View Answer What are the assignments and expectations in the EDSA 3900 class? The EDSA 3900 course relies on student engagement, participation, and attendance. Each class will be highly interactive, with discussions and activities around course readings and concepts. Students will be graded […] divider View Answer The housing application website isn’t working, what should I do? Fear not! Help is just a phone call away. Feel free to call us or email anytime during regular business hours. Our main phone line is 864-656-2295 and is staffed […] divider View Answer Can I take the EDSA 3900 class if I am not currently an RA? We do not currently offer this course for students who have not gone through the RA application process. divider View Answer How do I get instructor approval to take the EDSA 3900 class? Once you are selected to register for the EDSA 3900, our office will contact you to share available times that you can take the class. We will then match all […] divider View Answer What grade am I required to get in the EDSA 3900 class to continue as an RA? Students who receive a D or lower in the EDSA 3900 class will not be able to continue as an RA. divider View Answer What is the Residence Hall Association? The Residence Hall Association is an organization that advocates for on-campus residents to promote leadership, service, and opportunities. We strive to create a link between the residents and the University […] divider View Answer What is Community Council? The Community Council is group of student leaders who represent and advocate for their residential community, as well as promoting the Clemson Home experience through hosting events. divider View Answer What is the National Residence Hall Honorary? The National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) is an on-campus residence honorary that is comprised of the top 1% of student leaders in the residence hall. The organization seeks to promote […] divider View Answer How is RHA/NRHH/Community Council different from being a Resident Assistant (RA)? RHA, NRHH, and Community Council are open to all on-campus residential students and focuses on planning whole-community events and advocacyinitiatives. The major difference from RA is the RHA and NRHH […] divider View Answer How can students get involved in Student Leadership? In the fall, RHA holds elections for all community council positions. Keep post, positions may open throughout the school year! NRHH has a recruitment period at every semester; keep on […] divider View Answer Can first year students or bridge participate in these leadership opportunities? Yes! We encourage all students who live on campus to participate within the community council and RHA, including leadership positions within community council. Students must have a GPA and one […] divider View Answer Who can I contact for more information about Student Leadership opportunities? For more information about RHA and Community Council, please reach out to rha@g.clemson.edu For more information regarding NRHH, please reach out to nrhh.clemson@gmail.com divider View Answer Where do I go to apply for full time staff jobs at Clemson University? https://www.clemson.edu/careers/index.php divider View Answer I have questions about applying for a position at Clemson, where can I learn more about that? The Clemson University Office of Student Financial Aid and the Center for Career and Professional Development offer employment services to students. Both the Resident Assistant and Housing Summer Programs have […] divider View Answer I have question about details of my employment, like pay schedules, direct deposit, job expectations, etc.. Where can I find that information? Please contact Clemson University Human Resources. divider View Answer I have questions about campus IT and IT security. Where can I find more information about that? Please visit CCIT for the most up to date information. divider View Answer I have questions about my HR pin or password, how do I find this information? Recently you received a welcome email from Clemson’s Director of Onboarding. Refer to this email to obtain your HR Personal Identification Number (HR PIN). If you do not know your […] divider View Answer Can I cancel my room selection? You may cancel with no penalty before you choose a space during Room Selection, by sending an email to Clemson Home at Clemsonhome@clemson.edu. First Year and Bridge: You may email […] divider View Answer I accidentally signed up for a housing assignment. What should I do? You may email clemsonhome@clemson.edu to request a cancellation of your housing contract prior to you receiving a time slot. You will receive a confirmation email once your contract is cancelled. divider View Answer Can I cancel my housing contract after receiving a time slot? You may email clemsonhome@clemson.edu to cancel your contract after receiving a time slot, but prior to choosing a living space. Please include your name, CUID and statement on why you […] divider View Answer Can I appeal my housing contract? The housing contract is a legally binding contract. You may submit an Appeal Request. The committee meets every two weeks and will notify you with their decision at the email […] divider View Answer Can I get the housing contract fee waived? Please be aware the waiver for the housing contract fee may be waived if the Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) is equal to zero after the FASFA has processed. If the […] divider View Answer I’m on the waitlist, how likely am I to get a housing assignment? In previous years, we have always been able to house every current student who was willing to wait an option to live on campus. If you are only interested in […] divider View Answer Can I change my room after move in? You may reach out to your community staff beginning in September for fall semester and mid-January for spring semester to discuss your options for a change in your living space. divider View Answer When are housing applications for next semester available? The application for Spring Housing will be available at the beginning of November. Fall 2020: The deadline has passed. divider View Answer Why can’t I find my roommate during the contract phase? There are several possible reasons for not being able to find your roommate. 1)You both must choose the same LLC option on the Community Choice page. If you have chosen […] divider View Answer I accidentally signed up for an LLC, what should I do? You may return to your housing portal and deselect the LLC prior to the housing deadline. divider View Answer Can I live with someone who is in a different LLC than me? Many Living Learning Communities (LLCs) do not allow students who are not a part of an LLC to live in the designated space. Students who choose an LLC that they […] divider View Answer The roommate request deadline has passed, can I still request a roommate? Unfortunately, The opportunity to select and accept roommates closed at the housing deadline. divider View Answer I forgot or can’t find my time slot for room selection, what should I do? Please check your Clemson email for your time slot notification and residential community links. Please notify us immediately if you have not received a time slot notification. divider View Answer What if I don’t pick a room during my time slot? If you do not select your living space during your Living Learning time slot, then you will be assigned a new time slot to choose during traditional student times slots. […] divider View Answer What if I have class during my room selection time? Your time slot starts on the day and time as designated in your time slot notification email. You may log in to the housing portal to choose your space starting […] divider View Answer Can I choose a living space if I don’t have a roommate chosen ahead of time? If you do not have a Roommate Group set up prior to the contract deadline, you will log in during your time slot to select a housing space for yourself. […] divider View Answer What happens if there’s not a space that can fit all of my chosen roommates? The first scenario is that all four roommates find a place to live together. The second scenario, which you are unable to find a room together so you will need […] divider View Answer How does Room Swap work? Can my roommate swap with my friend? Room Swap is a process that allows students to swap their current room for an empty space that is still available. Unfortunately, there may be so few empty spaces at […] divider View Answer The waitlist portal is closed, but I don’t have a room assignment, what should I do? The wait list in the portal is closed at this time. Because of the high volume of interest to live on campus there are currently no vacancies. Should you desire […] divider View Answer Can first year students live off campus? In order to live off campus as a first-year student, your primary residence needs to be in Oconee, Pickens or Anderson Counties. If you meet this requirement, please fill out […] divider View Answer When does room selection happen? You will receive a time slot notification for the date and time you may return to the housing portal to select your living space for your classification, First Year, Bridge, […] divider View Answer How do we pick a group leader for room selection? The Group Leader is self-determined based upon all roommates who are mutually confirmed. Most groups choose whichever roommate gets the earliest time slot as the group leader. We suggest that […] divider View Answer How many roommates can a first year student have? The majority of housing accommodations available to first-year students are designated as two-person rooms. In certain suite-style communities, such as Holmes Hall, McCabe Hall and the Honors Residential College, a […] divider View Answer How do I choose my living space? During your time slot, you may enter the housing portal and select a room. If the room is identified as a 2/2, meaning there are two of the two beds […] divider View Answer I’m a new student, can I request a roommate change after the deadline? We understand how important your freshman year is and how it will shape the next few years. Living with someone we don’t know can be frightening and difficult. College is […] divider View Answer Can Bridge students have a roommate that is not another Bridge student? Bridge and First Year Clemson students are not able to live together. However, there will many opportunities for them to engage, such as in the dining halls. divider View Answer Can I sign up for a meal plan before I’ve signed my housing contract? Selecting a meal plan is part of the housing contract. You will have the opportunity to choose from one of our meal plans that meets your requirement or needs. Any […] divider View Answer Can I change my meal plan? Students may add or change their meal plan selection through the Clemson Home Portal. Your bill will recalculate based on your saved changes. Once classes begin, please visit our dining page […] divider View Answer Can I arrive early for move in? The Fall Early Arrival Request Form opens June 1 on the Clemson Home Portal and will remain open until early August. You will be notified of approval or denial by […] divider View Answer How do I prepare my room for move out? divider View Answer What happens if my key is lost or stolen? This would cause a lock change charge from University Housing. Most often, this is due to a lost key or a temporary key that is not returned by the deadline. […] divider View Answer If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information