Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Student Housing myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Your Housing Benefits Select to follow link Location Privacy Affordability Apply for Housing Select to follow link Next Steps After Applying Select to follow link Room Selection Preparation Checklist Scholarship Hall Application Rates Contract Terms & Cancellation Fees All Communities Select to follow link Residence Halls Select to follow link Corbin Hall Downs Hall Ellsworth Hall Gertrude Sellards Pearson (GSP) Hall Hashinger Hall Lewis Hall Oswald Hall Self Hall Templin Hall Scholarship Halls Select to follow link Battenfeld Hall Douthart Hall Grace Pearson Hall K.K. Amini Hall Krehbiel Hall Margaret Amini Hall Miller Hall Pearson Hall Rieger Hall Sellards Hall Stephenson Hall Watkins Hall Apartments Select to follow link McCarthy Hall Jayhawker Towers Stouffer Place Current Residents Select to follow link Service Requests Change Room Space KU Student Housing Handbook Scholarships for returning residents Internet & TV Event and Meeting Spaces Resources Select to follow link Safety Accommodation Gender Inclusive Housing Crisis Counseling Resources Special Interest Communities Academic Resources Residential Curriculum About Select to follow link Staff Building Addresses FAQs Summer Summer Housing Summer Camps & Conferences myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Student Housing Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Limited housing still available for 2022–2023. Learn more Latest News Updates and information Room Selection Waitlist Some buildings and room types are full. Request to be placed on the waitlist for available space. Join the waitlist. Learn More Spring Closing Information Information for current residents regarding check-out for spring closing. Read the full details. Learn More Swipe to see more Virtual Tours Browse the halls virtually, then schedule a campus visit for in-person viewing. You'll find virtual tour pages for each hall, as well as a playlist of all halls on the Student Housing YouTube channel. Explore YouTube Tours Why live on campus? 6 From private rooms to 4-person suites and shared 6-person apartments, you're sure to find an on-campus housing option that's right for you. Browse a wide variety of room types and determine what will fit you best. Privacy 5,000 About 5,000 Jayhawks select on-campus housing as the best way to get connected and engage with KU. You have four vibrant neighborhood communities to choose from, each with their own unique personality. You're sure to find the right location. Neighborhoods $2,000 Living on campus is a valuable connection to KU and because its services are all-inclusive, it can be less expensive than off-campus. Residence hall rates are almost $2,000 less per year than the national average for public schools, according to College Board. Affordability Let's eat! Dining plans are required for some residents, including those in residence halls. You'll have a variety of locations, menus, convenience, and quality to fit your every need. KU Dining Housing: Just two simple steps. Applying for housing is simple: Apply after you're admitted; select space in spring. Application open now KU Student Housing Office 422 W 11th Street Suite DSH Lawrence, KS 66045 housing@ku.edu 785-864-4560 facebook twitter youtube Employment at KU Housing KU Student Housing Handbook Housing Move-In Guest Housing Isolation and Quarantine for COVID-19 Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.