Skip to main content For Yale Undergraduate Housing questions please email yalecollegehousing@yale.edu. Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Yale Housing Home Graduate Housing Residence Life Self Service Portal Off Campus Living Resources Home > Resources > Arriving > Apartment Check-In Apartment Check-In New contracts begin August 1, 2022 *Due to COVID - 19, the move in process will be appointment based. More information will be available at the end of July/early August. Guidelines for Moving In: Must always wear a fabric face-covering while on campus Practice good hand hygiene using sanitizing stations Maintain a 6-foot separation from anyone else you encounter. These guidelines are essential to protect your safety as well as other members of the community. Yale custodial staff will also be sanitizing the various touchpoints of the buildings during this move in process. DO NOT return to campus if you are unwell or displaying any of the known symptoms of COVID-19, particularly on the day of your appointment. July Notice During the month of July, the Community Fellow of each complex will email all new residents inquiring about their arrival plans. They will be given one set of keys for the new residents. You will be able to obtain the keys by appointment at your new apartment complex from the Community Fellow.* Prior to Arrival* One to two weeks prior to arrival, email your building’s Community Fellow and housing@yale.edu with the date and approximate time you plan to arrive in New Haven. Please try to arrange your arrival time to be during the day, and not after 9 p.m. in the evening. If there is a delay in your arrival, please contact the Community Fellow and the Housing Office to make other arrangements for obtaining the keys. Arriving in August New residents should schedule their arrival on or after August 1st Additional NavigationClose Resources New to Yale Arriving Apartment Check-In Dormitory Check-In Orientation FAQs Fire Safety Health and Safety Links Related Yale Links Navigating New Haven Maintenance and Utilities Furniture Rental Harkness Gym Membership Yale Facilities About Us Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 420 Temple Street, New Haven, CT housing@yale.edu | Phone: (203) 432-2167 Facebook