Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us WISER – Women in Science and Engineering Residence The WISER LLC is for sophomore women majoring in engineering and science. Overview LLC Overview Did you Know Did You Know? Speech bubble Student Perspective Quick facts Quick Facts LLC Overview The purpose of the program is to give females the network and companionship that will help them stay in engineering and science majors. Studies have shown that many women majoring in engineering and science fields do not transfer out because of grades, but because of a sense of isolation. The WISER LLC gives women an opportunity to thrive together. Community of supportive and like-minded females, often taking similar courses as you Completion of a leadership portfolio consisting of professionally reviewed resumes, cover letters, and leadership experiences Workshops on topics ranging from time management and study skills to self-defense Opportunities to hear from recent female alumni and seasoned professionals in STEM fields Social activities such as painting nights, sushi making nights, and CORE trips WISE Big Sister mentor to be there when you need them Tutoring for STEM classes through the PEER/WISE Office Did You Know? Residents are provided professional development sessions resulting in the completion of a professional leadership portfolio as well as opportunities to participate in social and community activities as they pursue their STEM degrees. WISER is located in Douthit West. Student Perspective “Having these kinds of supportive, creative and intellectual people here for my sophomore year has been great, and I hope to see WISER positively affect girls across this campus for a long time. WISER provided me with a friendly, comforting environment for myself and the other residents in the program.”- Saahirah Goodwin, WISER community member Quick Facts Size: 24 students Location: Douthit West 4 person Apartments Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: Sophomore CECAS and CoS majors, women only Fee: $180 per semester Overview LLC Overview Show Hide LLC Overview Community of supportive and like-minded females, often taking similar courses as you Completion of a leadership portfolio consisting of professionally reviewed resumes, cover letters, and leadership experiences Workshops on topics ranging from time management and study skills to self-defense Opportunities to hear from recent female alumni and seasoned professionals in STEM fields Social activities such as painting nights, sushi making nights, and CORE trips WISE Big Sister mentor to be there when you need them Tutoring for STEM classes through the PEER/WISE Office Did you know? Did You Know? Show Hide LLC Overview Residents are provided professional development sessions resulting in the completion of a professional leadership portfolio as well as opportunities to participate in social and community activities as they pursue their STEM degrees. WISER is located in Douthit West. Speech bubble Student Perspective Show Hide LLC Overview “Having these kinds of supportive, creative and intellectual people here for my sophomore year has been great, and I hope to see WISER positively affect girls across this campus for a long time. WISER provided me with a friendly, comforting environment for myself and the other residents in the program.”- Saahirah Goodwin, WISER community member Quick Facts Quick Facts Show Hide LLC Overview Size: 24 students Location: Douthit West 4 person Apartments Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: Sophomore CECAS and CoS majors, women only Fee: $180 per semester Contact Information Contact Information Serita Acker Director, Women in Science and Engineering 158A Freeman Hall 864-656-7472 wserita@clemson.edu Serita Acker Director, Women in Science and Engineering 158A Freeman Hall 864-656-7472 wserita@clemson.edu Return to previous Return Previous Community You Looked At Community listings View Community Listings If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information