Skip To Content Florida State University Search: Search site Search FSU Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services University Housing Toggle navigation Menu Home Future Residents Future First–Year Students Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Future Transfer Students Residence Halls Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Graduate Students Academic Resources Current Residents Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Housing Booklets Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Campus Safety Community Standards Academic Resources Parents & Guardians Childcare Human Resources Conference Services About Us Our Welcome Mission Our Staff Contact Us News & Announcements RSO Lounge Request Advertising Policy Housing Human Resources University Housing Human Resources About Us Job Opportunities Employee Benefits Employee Resources Supervisor Resources Housing Resources About Us The Housing Human Resources Office provides support and guidance for University Housing employees and administration in the areas of employee and labor relations, compensation, employment and recruitment, and employee data management. We serve as an extension of the central Human Resources Office and provide a direct link to services and support for University Housing staff. Our goal is to provide effective solutions, timely communication, and excellent customer service in all HR relatedmatters. Contacts & Location Reubin O'D Askew Student Life Center 942 Learning Way Tallahassee, Florida 32304 (850) 645-1283 Leia White Associate Director, HR Satellite Offices Tel: 850-645-4801 ldwhite@fsu.edu Ashlee Shafer Assistant Director Tel: 850-645-1283 ashafer@fsu.edu Greg Turner HR Representative - provides HR support for full time, salaried staff Tel: 850-644-7986 gturner@fsu.edu Karen Gordon HR Representative – provides HR support for student staff to include Office Assistants, Night Staff, and RA's Tel: 850-644-7974 kgordon@fsu.edu Joyce Smith HR Representative – provides HR support for student staff to include Receptionists, Academic Trainers, and RA's Tel: 850-644-7985 jesmith3@fsu.edu About University Housing at FSU University Housing About FSU Tour the Campus Professional Employment Opportunities For information about full time/salaried positions currently available in the University Housing department, please visit the FSU Human Resources Employment and Recruiting website . Residence Coordinators Residence Coordinators (RCs) are full–time, professional live–in staff members. The Residence Coordinator is a graduate of a master's degree program, most typically higher education administration or student counseling. Residence Coordinators are responsible for the overall operations in the hall or complex. Duties include helping residents with academic, housing and personal problems; advising residence hall student groups; providing educational programs; supervising and training RAs; and helping residents develop and maintain positive communities. RCs serve in an on-call rotation for residential students. Residence Coordinator recruitment occurs annually in the Spring for the following academic year, or on an as-needed basis. Program Coordinators Program Coordinators (PCs) are full-time, professional live-off staff members. The Program Coordinator is a graduate of a master's degree program, most typically higher education administration or student counseling. Program Coordinators are responsible for the overall functional operation of one of the following areas: Recruitment & Training, Conduct & Care, Desk Operations, or Leadership & Engagement. Duties include oversight of functional area, collaborating with departmental, divisional, campus, and/or off-campus partners to support departmental initiatives and programs. Program Coordinator recruitment occurs annually in the Spring for the following academic year, or on an as-needed basis. Assistant Coordinators Assistant Coordinators (ACs) are master’s degree-seeking students, who are in Graduate Assistantships with the University Housing Department. Assistant Coordinators are employed for 20 hours weekly, and report directly to a full-time Program or Residence Coordinator. Assistant Coordinators are responsible for participating in student staff supervision, advising, and professional development and could be hired in areas such as hall management, student leadership, recruitment and training, or more. Duties include helping residents with academic, housing and personal problems; advising residence hall student groups; providing educational programs; supervising and training student staff/leaders; and helping residents develop and maintain positive communities. ACs service in an on-call rotation for residential students. Assistant Coordinator recruitment occurs annually in the Spring for the following academic year. These positions are hired through the College of Education Higher Education and Student Affairs program called Visiting Days, click here for more information. Student Employment Opportunities Part time, student positions currently available in the University Housing department are listed below. These student staff positions provide support within the Residence Halls on campus. Resident Assistant Resident Assistants (RAs) are current FSU students who live and work in the residence halls. Each RA assumes responsibility for approximately fifty (50) students. They work alongside professional and graduate staff to create events and opportunities to reach their full potential. The ideal RA candidate will have an unwavering commitment to University Housing values related to academic success, student support & care, teamwork, and creating respectful and inclusive living environments for residential students. Resident Assistant recruitment occurs annually in the Fall for the following academic year, or on an as-needed basis. Applications open November 1, 2021 – December 5, 2021. Learn more about information sessions! Desk Assistants Desk Assistants (DAs) are current FSU students who work at the Front Desks in the residence halls to maintain safety, security, and community between the hours of 12:00AM to 8:00PM. They work closely with University Housing staff and Florida State University Police to address concerns that occur in the halls. This role will assist residents with issues and concerns during their shift while also responding to emergencies that require leadership and guidance. The ideal Desk Assistant candidate will have an unwavering commitment to University Housing values related to student support & care, teamwork, and creating respectful and inclusive living environments for residential students. Desk Assistant recruitment occurs semesterly for the following semester, or on an as-needed basis. Academic Trainer Academic Trainers (ATs) are current FSU students who serve University Housing by helping residential students succeed in their academic endeavors. ATs work in our Academic Resource Centers as peer educators to help students with study skills, study scheduling, and resource referral. Academic Trainers are also mentors in for Housing’s Engage 100 Course. In line with our educational priority, Academic Trainers empower our students to reach their full academic potential as they work towards a degree. ATs also work closely with the Academic Center for Excellence (ACE) through training, workshops, and meetings to ensure that a seamless academic assistance experience is embodied across our campus. The ideal Academic Trainer candidate will have an unwavering commitment to University Housing values related to student support & care, teamwork, and academic success as well as a grade point average above 3.0. Academic Trainer recruitment occurs annually in the Spring for the following Academic Year, or on an as-needed basis. Student Assistants Student Assistants (SAs) are current FSU students who work at the Front Desks for the University Housing department. They work in conjunction with University Housing staff to assist with prospective, incoming, and current residential student inquiries and concerns. The ideal Student Assistant candidate will have an unwavering commitment to University Housing values related to student support & care, teamwork, and customer service. Student Assistant recruitment occurs on an as-needed basis Conference Assistants Conference Assistants (CAs) are current FSU students who work with our Camps & Conferences team to maintain safety, security, and community for camps and conference guests in the residence halls. They work closely with University Housing staff to manage many day-to-day functions that are crucial to the success of camps and conferences, such as administrative tasks, customer service, and communication. This role will assist conference guests with issues and concerns during their shifts while also responding to emergencies that require leadership and guidance. The ideal Conference Assistant candidate will have an unwavering commitment to University Housing values related to support and customer service. Conference Assistant recruitment occurs annually in the Spring for the following summer, or on an as-needed basis. Total Rewards Program Florida State University offers a competitive Total Rewards Program which includes Compensation, Benefits, Wellness, Recognition, and Employee Development. For more information visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/total-rewards Compensation includes items that are not always visible on your paycheck. To understand the true value of your position use the compensation calculator tool at the link below. Total Compensation Calculator Employee Tuition Scholarship Florida State University provides the opportunity for the University's employees to take up to two courses, or six hours, of course work per academic term tuition free. For more information, visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/total-rewards/additional-benefits-and-perks/education-and-development Additional Benefits, Perks and Savings Current FSU employees have the opportunity to participate in exclusive discounts. Discounts and perks are available at a variety of campus, local, and national vendors. For more information, visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/total-rewards/additional-benefits-and-perks Employee Resources New Employee Orientation Employee Assistance Program Family Medical Leave Act Americans With Disabilities Act Attendance and Leave Training and Development FSU New Employee Orientation The University's New Employee Orientation program is available online for all newly hired employees to provide them with information concerning employee benefits, rules and regulations affecting employment, basic cybersecurity awareness, and University operating procedures. Orientation is mandatory for all employees. For more information, visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/working-fsu/new-employees Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The Employee Assistance Program is a free and confidential program that provides brief intervention/short-term counseling, referrals (if needed), and follow-up services to help FSU employees in dealing with issues such as: marital and family conflicts, job stress, alcohol & drug abuse, financial difficulties, separation/divorce, grief/loss issues, parenting, relationship issues, anxiety/depression/ anger concerns, physical/sexual/emotional abuse, and communication problems. Supervisor Consults, Mediation Services, and Crisis Intervention are also available. For more information, visit: https://eap.fsu.edu/ Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) FMLA provides eligible employees unpaid job protected leave for the following qualifying events: The birth or placement of a child for adoption or foster care. To care for a spouse, son, daughter, or parent with a serious health condition. For the employee's own serious health condition. For qualifying exigency leave arising out of the covered active duty status of a military member who is the employee's spouse, son, daughter, or parent. For more information, visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/sections/equity-diversity-inclusion/family-medical-leave-act-fmla-1993 Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) FSU has many resources available to students, faculty, staff and visitors who have disabilities, which help ensure a quality, educational and work environment. Reasonable Accommodations Reasonable Accommodations are for the purpose of structural or procedural modifications that remove barriers which prohibit an employee with a disability from enjoying the same rights and privileges as those who are not disabled. Such modifications may be in, but are not limited to, three forms: Modification of a particular job assignment that enable a qualified individual with a disability to perform the essential function of the job without causing undue hardship to the University. Modifications that allow employees with disabilities equal access to all privileges and benefits of employment. Modification to the employment process that allow applicants with disabilities equal opportunity to apply for jobs. For more information visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/sections/equity-diversity-inclusion/americans-disabilities-act-ada . Workers’ Compensation The Workers' Compensation program coordinates and manages claims relating to work-related injuries sustained by University employees. Please report any injury or illness to AmeriSys at 1-800-455-2079. For more information visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/sections/equity-diversity-inclusion/workers-compensation . Attendance & Leave The Office of Human Resources offers training and provides guidance for the administration of Florida State University’s attendance and leave policies and monitors time reporting for all employees. For more information, visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/sections/attendance-leave Payroll Calendars and Schedules 2021 Pay Periods Calendar Normal Payroll Schedule Training & Development Florida State University's Office of Training & Organizational Development (TOD) delivers workplace training and personal development among University employees through a variety of virtual and in person learning opportunities. Browse the training catalog here: https://hr.fsu.edu/sites/g/files/upcbnu2186/files/PDF/Publications/training/Catalog.pdf For more information, visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/index.php/train In addition to University training & development opportunities, Housing staff are encouraged to participate in the many DSA Professional Development events, programs, conferences, and more to support professional growth. For more information, visit: https://studentaffairs.fsu.edu/staffdev/ Staff Recruiting & Onboarding Selecting the right candidate for your position is very important. HR Employment and Recruitment Services offers a variety training and resources to assist supervisors in areas such as, creating a job opening, preparing for interviews, and making a job offer. for more information, visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/index.php/sections/employment-recruitment-services/departments All Housing employees involved in staff hiring are required to complete the University staff search training. To complete the staff search training visit: https://searchtraining.hr.fsu.edu/training/. Performance Management/Evaluations All employees must have a performance evaluation at least annually. The performance evaluation process should be a constructive tool for continual improvement, documenting substandard performance, and recognition of employees' performance. For more information visit: https://hr.fsu.edu/sections/employee-labor-relations/performance-evaluations. Housing Resources Coming soon! Return to top of page University Housing Department Division of Student Affairs 109 Askew Student Life Building Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: 850–644–2860 Fax: 850–644–7997 Email: housing@fsu.edu University Housing: Facebook Instagram Twitter © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media