Skip To Main Content Department of Residence Search the website Open Search Box Housing Portal Login Open Mobile Menu Housing Portal Login Search the website Open Search Box Guide Laundry Laundry is available in every residence hall and apartment community – even though mom isn’t here to do it for you! We make it as easy as we can with two ways to pay. There’s also an app that shows you available machines and when your laundry is done. You’ll need to bring your own laundry supplies (HE detergent, baskets and anything else you typically use). Instructions on how to use machines are posted in each area. Cost: $.75 to wash and $.75 to dry in all residence hall laundry rooms and in the SUV laundry building. There are machines in each Frederiksen Court apartment that do not require payment. Payment: There are two ways to pay for laundry – CyCash or the Speed Queen app. Use the payment method that works best for you. Cy Cash – Load Cy Cash on to your university account using AccessPlus. Then, swipe your card in the laundry room to activate the machines. Speed Queen – You can download the Speed Queen app on the Google Play or Apple Store. With the app, you can view available machines, know when your laundry is done and pay! You load money in to the app using a credit or debit card and you’re good to go! Our school code is IOWAST. Laundry Tips Use high-efficiency detergent (HE) If you’re using pods, they go in the wash drum with the clothes – not in the detergent tray Do not overload the machines – it slows wash and dry time Use the Speed Queen app to check for available machines before you go to the laundry room and to track your laundry so you can remove it when it’s done. Contact Department of Residence 2419 Friley Hall Ames, IA 50012 E: housing@iastate.edu P: 515-294-2900 Quick Links ISU Dining Conference Services Guest Housing Intranet Staff IT Request Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link Youtube Link Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy.