Academic and Student Affairs Think and Do The Extraordinary Support Student Success Living and Learning Initiatives MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content About The Village Initiative Timeline of Villages Initiatives Task Force Reports Latest News Find Your Community Find Your Community Albright Entrepreneurs Village Arts Village Black Male Initiative EcoVillage Engineering Village Exploratory Studies Village Global Village Honors and Scholars Village Impact Leadership Village Native Space Students Advocating for Youth Village Transfer Connections Village Wellness Village Women in Science and Engineering Women of Welch Village Village Events How to Apply Alumni/Giving Visit University Housing > Learn by Doing. Join a Living and Learning Village! When you belong to a village, you live and learn in an inclusive, one-of-a-kind community—and make lifelong friends in the process. Explore your options Find Your Community Albright Entrepreneurs Village Residents live and work with entrepreneurial- minded peers of all disciplines to explore and develop themselves in an environment that inspires creativity and innovation. Learn more » Arts Village Uniting students from various personal and academic backgrounds who have a passion for the arts by exposing them to the theatre, arts and crafts, music, and dance. Learn more » Black Male Initiative Promoting brotherhood and developing leaders through academic success, personal growth, professional development, and self-responsibility. Learn more » EcoVillage The EcoVillage allows students to explore their interests in environmental conservation, energy, sustainable industry and business, and agriculture through community service, field trips, social events and educational programming. Learn more » Engineering Village Introducing first-year engineering students to the field of engineering by encouraging a thoughtful consideration of the grand challenges facing our world, offering opportunities to connect personal, academic and career goals. Learn more » Exploratory Studies Village Offers a year of guided inquiry and exploration coupled with one-on-one sessions with academic advisers to help move students through the career planning and decision-making process. Learn more » Global Village For students interested in living and interacting with people from different backgrounds, experiences, countries, and viewpoints. Learn more » Honors and Scholars Village Life in these villages centers around a wide range of social, cultural and educational activities, all designed to help students become informed citizens, ethical leaders and active contributors to our campus and community. Learn more » Impact Leadership Village Helping students identify their strengths, develop their leadership abilities, and learn how to apply these skills to solve some of the world’s most pressing issues. Learn more » Native Space Providing a community for incoming Native American and American Indian students and allies through a supportive and culturally engaged campus environment. Learn more » Students Advocating for Youth (SAY) Village Residents of SAY Village develop close mentoring relationships with local elementary school students and learn what it means to be a youth advocate. Learn more » S.T.A.T.E. Village Provides second-year and transfer students with opportunities to make the most of their NC State experience by focusing on the six core pillars essential to student success. Learn more » Wellness Village Open to all NC State students committed to living a balanced lifestyle. The village encourages developing and maintaining personal overall wellness through coursework, small programs, mentorships and high-impact events. Learn more » Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) Exclusively for first- and second-year females majoring in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. WISE members have the opportunity to network with other goal-oriented women as they pursue their STEM major. Learn more » Women of Welch (WOW) Village WOW Village enhances women’s leadership opportunities outside the classroom through empowerment, leadership development, self-awareness, diversity, and social justice. Learn more » Opportunity for Scholar-In-Residence Apply by April 12, 2021. The University Honors and Scholars Programs and Honors and Scholars Village seek an NC State faculty member to serve as the 2021-2022 Honors and Scholars Village Scholar-in-Residence. To be eligible, Dining with the Deans: A Faculty Engagement Dinner Series On Tuesday, February 19, 2019, Living and Learning Initiatives hosted the first installment of their “Dining with the Deans” Series featuring Dean Jeff Braden from the College of Humanities and Social Sciences. To demystify the A Guide to Scholars Forum Dance. Art. Movies. Academic enrichment. All of these and much more are explored every week during Scholars Forum. Scholars Forum offers many fun and diverse ways to engage with the Scholars and Honors communities and Interview with Dr. Scott O’Leary Dr. Scott O’Leary is the Honors and Scholars Village Director. He came into this position in August, and he hit the ground running. His vision is to use the newness of the village to provide Living and Learning Initiatives Chester L. Miller, M.S. Director, Living and Learning Initiatives 1104-D Pullen Hall 201 Dan Allen Drive Raleigh, NC 27695-7315 ncstate-villages@ncsu.edu 919.515.7917 Instagram Email FIND YOUR COMMUNITY Albright Entrepreneurs Village Arts Village Black Male Initiative EcoVillage Engineering Village Exploratory Studies Village Global Village Honors and Scholars Village Impact Leadership Village Native Space Transfer Connections Village SAY Village Wellness Village WISE Village WOW Village Search all Villages Search for: WHO WE ARE Living and Learning Initiatives Organizational Chart Accessibility © 2022 Living and Learning Initiatives | Log in