Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Student Housing myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Your Housing Benefits Select to follow link Location Privacy Affordability Apply for Housing Select to follow link Next Steps After Applying Select to follow link Room Selection Preparation Checklist Scholarship Hall Application Rates Contract Terms & Cancellation Fees All Communities Select to follow link Residence Halls Select to follow link Corbin Hall Downs Hall Ellsworth Hall Gertrude Sellards Pearson (GSP) Hall Hashinger Hall Lewis Hall Oswald Hall Self Hall Templin Hall Scholarship Halls Select to follow link Battenfeld Hall Douthart Hall Grace Pearson Hall K.K. Amini Hall Krehbiel Hall Margaret Amini Hall Miller Hall Pearson Hall Rieger Hall Sellards Hall Stephenson Hall Watkins Hall Apartments Select to follow link McCarthy Hall Jayhawker Towers Stouffer Place Current Residents Select to follow link Service Requests Change Room Space KU Student Housing Handbook Scholarships for returning residents Internet & TV Event and Meeting Spaces Resources Select to follow link Safety Accommodation Gender Inclusive Housing Crisis Counseling Resources Special Interest Communities Academic Resources Residential Curriculum About Select to follow link Staff Building Addresses FAQs Summer Summer Housing Summer Camps & Conferences myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Student Housing Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Safety is a Priority Student Housing has procedures and resources to promote safety and security. Safety is everyone's responsibility and our individual actions are our best preventive measure. COVID Isolation & Quarantine Housing Safety Precautions Residents must scan their identification card to enter their building. Student security staff members walk throughout buildings from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. Resident Assistants and professional staff are on call 24/7. Security cameras are located at entrances and exits to all buildings. Health and safety checks performed each semester in all rooms. KU Public Safety patrols campus, including student housing. Students living on campus must have a meningitis vaccination. The policy is available at Watkins Health Services Residents are responsible for reading and following policies in the Student Housing Handbook. Campus Safety Information The annual security report about KU safety policies, crime statistics and campus resources is available. The Fire Safety Report is included in the public safety Clery Report. Federal regulation 668.49 – Institutional fire safety policies and fire statistics. Concealed carry is allowed in Kansas public buildings by the state law called the Personal and Family Protection Act. Additional campus safety resources KU Public Safety Campus Alerts KU on Wheels Safe Ride Watkins Health Services KU Student Housing Office 422 W 11th Street Suite DSH Lawrence, KS 66045 housing@ku.edu 785-864-4560 facebook twitter youtube Employment at KU Housing KU Student Housing Handbook Housing Move-In Guest Housing Isolation and Quarantine for COVID-19 Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.