skip to: page content | links on this page | site navigation | footer (site information) Housing Home Move In Move Out Scholarships How to Sign Up Your Sign Up Checklist Residence Halls Learning Communities Contract Guide Housing Costs Payment Arrangements Room Changes Life on Campus Hall Policies Leadership and Involvement Residence Hall Association Community Standards Services in the Halls Health and Safety Staff and Hall Offices Faculty and Staff Involvement Parents Philosophy Our Halls Residence Halls TV and Internet Room Furnishings Staff and Hall Offices Addresses, Mail and Packages Hall Improvements Residence Hall Parking Dining Options Dining Plans Manage Dining Bucks Dining Plan Change Request Work With Us Student Staff Professional Staff Client Relations Staff Employment Benefits Go Green RecycleMania Need to Live Off Campus? Conference Services A-Z Site Index Campus Map FixIT Request TTU Home University Student Housing Student Leadership and Involvement The Leadership Development Center is located in the Carpenter/Wells Complex » and serves as a central hub for student leadership in the residence halls. Offices for the Residence Halls Association, National Residence Hall Honorary, and University Student Housing Student Staff Council are all located in the Leadership Development Center as well as a wide variety of meeting and study rooms. Residence Halls Association The Residence Halls Association (RHA) represents the interests of all students living on campus at Texas Tech University. Through leadership, service, and programs, RHA strives to ensure every student living on campus has an opportunity to connect with their living community. Every student living on campus is a member of RHA, and is able to participate in all of the free events and activities. Some of RHA's traditional programs include Best Dressed Space, Safe Treat, Carol of Lights and RaiderFest. Complex Council Complex Councils are the governing and programming body within each residence hall complex. Complex Councils plan large events, vote on policies that affect their residents and participate in various leadership activities. Executive elections are open to all residents within that complex and generally occur each fall. Each Complex Council will elect a member to represent the hall population to the greater campus community through the RHA Complexes. Howdy TECHsans The Howdy TECHsan's are a group of student volunteers that arrive on campus early, before the fall semester, to assist their peers throughout the move-in weekend. They work alongside University Student Housing professionals and student staff to prepare the residence halls for the year. Howdy TECHsans also attend various social activities and leadership development sessions during the program. Admittance into the Howdy TECHsan program is through an application process conducted over the summer. National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) NRHH is a national honorary that recognizes the top 1% of leaders living on campus. The Texas Tech chapter promotes the four pillars of Leadership, Academics, Recognition and Service by planning various events and service projects. Membership in NRHH is only gained through a nomination and induction process after meeting the criteria set forth by the National Association of College and University Residence Halls (NACURH). Student Staff Leadership Council (SSLC) SSLC represents the interests of all student staff positions within University Student Housing through recognition and advocacy. To be a SSLC member, you must be a student employed by University Student Housing. Raiders Helping Others Dedicated to helping others in the Lubbock community and beyond, the members of Raiders Helping Others perform two community service projects per month throughout the academic year. Additionally, members will be selected from within the group to attend a distance spring break service trip. New group members are selected by current members early in the fall semester. Members are expected to participate in community service projects, social activities, and fundraising events. All expenses associated with the service events and spring break trip are paid by group members or through fundraisers. University Student Housing Wiggins Complex, 3211 18th Street Box 41141, Lubbock, TX 79409 Tel: 806.742.2661 Fax: 806.742.2696 housing@ttu.edu ©2022 Texas Tech University | All Rights Reserved | Last updated: July 25, 2019 1:57pm.