Skip to main content For Yale Undergraduate Housing questions please email yalecollegehousing@yale.edu. Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Yale Housing Home Graduate Housing Residence Life Self Service Portal Off Campus Living Resources Welcome Welcome to Yale Housing! The Yale Housing office is responsible for providing graduate housing options on and around the Yale campus. Our office manages a limited number of on-campus, Yale owned and operated dormitories and apartments, for Graduate and Professional Students only. Our buildings provide a safe and supportive residential environment that fosters a sense of community and enhances the Yale experience for all graduate and professional students and their families. Additionally, Yale Housing manages a housing website, that provides off-campus, alternative housing for all members of the Yale community. This online secure database lists property rentals and homes for sale throughout the greater New Haven area. Housing Application and Room Selection for 2022 - 2023 Academic Year Opens April 20, 2022, 9:00 a.m. EST Especially for graduate students applying for housing from India - please make sure your VPN is changed to a US location before applying for housing. Roommate Matching Feature for 272 Elm only begins April 1, 2022 We are piloting a Roommate Matching application for first-year GSAS students only at 272 Elm. It will open on April 1, 2022. You must have an activated Yale Net ID and password in order to access the application. Log into your Self Service with your Yale Net ID and password. Click on Applications in the left-hand column. Click on 272 Elm Roommate Matching Application and fill out the questions. Click Continue to submit. Completing a roommate match is no guarantee of housing as we have a limited number of rooms available. Once you submit your responses, return to the home page in Self Service, click on Room Selection in the left-hand column. Click on Select Roommates. Change “For the Term” to Fall 2022 and click Search for Roommate. You can search by name, gender, study habits, sleep habits, etc. Keep in mind the less filters you use, the more results you will get. Once you are paired up with another first-year GSAS student, you will both apply for housing through your Self Service portal on April 20. You will choose the Application titled “272 Elm Housing Application for Roommates Only.” Once you complete the housing application, you will automatically go into Room Selection. Only one of you needs to pick the room for the 2022-2023 academic year. The roommate will automatically be placed in the other bedroom. Remember to return to the home page to sign the license agreement and pay the security deposit. News Winter Fun December 9, 2021 Some Whitehall residents had fun in the winter snow building some new residents - a snowman family! Housing for Spring 2022 Only Opens December 1st November 15, 2021 We will have a limited number of dormitory rooms, shared apartments, and family housing available for Spring 2022 only. Housing application and room selection opens on... Yale Housing team winners of Staff Spirit Week July 1, 2019 Housing Team Wins Creating “Care Rocks” to give Smilow cancer patients courage, hosting a spirited volleyball tournament, taking in a bird’s eye view of New Haven from the... More news... Housing Webinar The Housing Webinar was held on Thursday, April 7 at 11:00 a.m. EST. Please view the RECORDED WEBINAR HERE. You can also refer to these Frequently Asked Questions about housing and the housing application process. Frequently Asked Questions How to Apply for Housing on April 20 Housing Brochure Spring Salvage Swap Room New to Yale? Dormitory Check In Apartment Check In Dorm & Apt Comparison Chart Key Dates Facebook Pages Repairs & Maintenance Requests Contact your Community Fellow Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 420 Temple Street, New Haven, CT housing@yale.edu | Phone: (203) 432-2167 Facebook