Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us Assignments Spring Housing Transfer Housing Summer Start Continuing Housing Sign-up New Student Housing Sign-up Bridge Student Housing Sign-up Summer Housing Sign-up Contracts, Rates, & Policies Accommodated Housing Room Changes Housing & Dining Cancellations Sub-navigation Bridge Student Housing Sign-up Requirements Acceptance to the Bridge to Clemson Program Authenticate your Clemson email For assistance with your Clemson University email, username, and password, contact CCIT. After identifying your username and password, log in to the Clemson Home portal using your Clemson University credentials Deadline Feb. 1 (at 8:30 AM ET) – May 16 (Noon at 12:00 PM ET) SIGN-UP Visit the Clemson Home Portal to sign up for Academic Year Housing and Dining. Select a Term If you plan to begin classes in Aug. 2022 – select Academic Year 2022-23 Payment Pay the $150, non-refundable, housing contract fee This one-time fee is only assessed when you initially sign up for on-campus housing Pay by credit card; the University accepts any major credit card as a form of payment Contract & Addendum Carefully review and electronically sign the contract and addendum The contract and addendum are legally binding upon acceptance of the terms and conditions We highly recommend you retain a copy of the Clemson University Housing Contract and Addendum. While on this page, you will have the options to save and/or print Review meal plan details *After May 16? Don’t worry! Housing is guaranteed for all Bridge students. Late applicants will not participate in room select and will be assigned to a space. ROOMMATE GROUPS Feb. 1 (at 8:30 AM ET) – May 16 (Noon at 12:00 PM ET) Create your profile in the Clemson Home Portal Create your roommate group prior to the deadline. Select one, two or three roommates Four is the maximum group size Timeslot & Room Selection May 23 Time Slot notifications sent early evening to student’s Clemson University email account June 2 Room Selection by Timeslot FAQs How Does Priority for Housing Work? The size of your roommate group determines your sign-up priority. Groups of four receive the highest level of sign-up priority, followed by groups of three, then groups of two and finally singles. Time slots are randomly assigned to each group. Each student will receive an email with this timeslot, but only one of you will need to log in to select for the whole group. How will I know when I can select my housing? You will receive an email with a timeslot. If you have chosen to be part of a roommate group, each member of the group will receive the same timeslot and only one of you should log in to select a space. If you are in a group of 3 or 4, be sure that you have discussed with your roommates how the group will be split into the rooms in the apartment. If there are no spaces available for your group size, you may need to split up and one person from each apartment will need to select. What if I don’t know who I want my roommate to be? Don’t worry! The Clemson Home Portal has a roommate matching option, so you will be able to create a profile, answer the lifestyle questions, and search for other students who may be a good fit as a roommate. Do I have to live on-campus and purchase a meal plan? All Bridge students are required to live on-campus and purchase the required meal plan. This policy is intended to support your college transition and help to ensure your engagement and success during your first year. Only students who live at home with their parent or guardian in one of the three counties surrounding Clemson and Tri-County (Anderson, Pickens, and Oconee) are exempt from this requirement. Is housing guaranteed for me? Housing is guaranteed and required for first year and Bridge to Clemson students. On campus housing is prioritized for new-to campus students with the goal of supporting you during your transition and ensuring your engagement and success during that critical first year. Continuing students are offered housing as available. What housing options are available to me? Please check our Residential Communities Page for a full list of Bridge housing options. Assignments Spring Housing Transfer Housing Summer Start Continuing Housing Sign-up New Student Housing Sign-up Bridge Student Housing Sign-up Summer Housing Sign-up Contracts, Rates, & Policies Accommodated Housing Room Changes Housing & Dining Cancellations If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information