Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us Resources On-Campus Technology Laundry Fire Safety Information Student Mail Services Maintenance Requests Campus Partners Sub-navigation Maintenance Requests Our maintenance team is ready to respond to your maintenance request. Call 864-656-5450 to report a maintenance issue between 7:30 a.m. (ET) and midnight or click one of the links below. For after hours emergency service please contact the Resident Assistant (RA) On-Call. Please select the type of issue you are experiencing: Report a maintenance issue in University Housing. Report a maintenance issue in one of the laundry facilities. A few troubleshooting tips: Don’t turn your air conditioning/heating unit all the way up or all the way down. If you use detergent pods, please make sure you place the pod in the washer itself – not in the slot on the side. Calls about the elevator should be directed to the Clemson University Police Department (CUPD) at 864-656-2222. We appreciate your patience and for understanding that buildings may seem hot on Move-In Weekend. All doors are open making it difficult to regulate the air flow. It may take 48 to 72 hours for the building to regain its normal temperature. During this time: Don’t open the windows. Close your door to keep the cool air in. Don’t adjust your thermostat below 72/74 degrees. If the room doesn’t have a thermostat, place the fan coil cooling on medium and fan speed on medium or low. If you have an air conditioner or gas pack don’t turn the thermostat all the way down. This will make the unit freeze up, and it will have to defrost before it starts cooling again. A fan will help until the building recovers from all doors being open. Resources On-Campus Technology Laundry Fire Safety Information Student Mail Services Maintenance Requests Campus Partners If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information