Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us WAVS – Women in Veterinary Sciences The WAVS LLC is designed especially for first-year women majoring in Animal and Veterinary Science (AVS). Overview LLC Overview Did you Know Did You Know? Speech bubble Student Perspective Quick facts Quick Facts LLC Overview WAVS offers unique experiences within the AVS department that are not offered to other students in the major. The first year is a time of great adjustments from high school to college life. WAVS helps students successfully make that transition. Freshman women live and study with other women in their major, who share the same coursework, test schedules, study groups and club activities. WAVS is an opportunity to make lifelong friendships with other women who share similar interests, dreams and ambitions. Supportive peers, academic advisors and major faculty Social activities and events Professional development workshops Access to specialized animal and veterinary sciences events Tutoring opportunities for challenging courses Priority academic advising times Lifeguard upperclass mentors Networking opportunities with AVS faculty Group and individual service opportunities Did You Know? AVS staff and faculty support WAVS and often continue to mentor the student through the remainder of their Clemson academic career. They also assist with labs for upper-level animal science courses truly linking both in-class and out of class experiences during a student’s time at Clemson. WAVS students also historically have higher GPA’s than freshmen AVS students not in WAVS. Student Perspective “We’re all taking the same classes, basically. So, we all get to study together and go over notes together. If we miss something we can always ask each other. So academically, we can advance a lot quicker than others. And then socially, it’s like a second family. ” Quick Facts Size: 38 students Location: The Shoeboxes- Young Hall Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: Animal and Veterinary Science majors, women only Application: No Fee: $175 Overview LLC Overview Show Hide LLC Overview WAVS offers unique experiences within the AVS department that are not offered to other students in the major. The first year is a time of great adjustments from high school to college life. WAVS helps students successfully make that transition. Freshman women live and study with other women in their major, who share the same coursework, test schedules, study groups and club activities. WAVS is an opportunity to make lifelong friendships with other women who share similar interests, dreams and ambitions. Supportive peers, academic advisors and major faculty Social activities and events Professional development workshops Access to specialized animal and veterinary sciences events Tutoring opportunities for challenging courses Priority academic advising times Lifeguard upperclass mentors Networking opportunities with AVS faculty Group and individual service opportunities Did you know? Did You Know? Show Hide LLC Overview AVS staff and faculty support WAVS and often continue to mentor the student through the remainder of their Clemson academic career. They also assist with labs for upper-level animal science courses truly linking both in-class and out of class experiences during a student’s time at Clemson. WAVS students also historically have higher GPA’s than freshmen AVS students not in WAVS. Speech bubble Student Perspective Show Hide LLC Overview “We’re all taking the same classes, basically. So, we all get to study together and go over notes together. If we miss something we can always ask each other. So academically, we can advance a lot quicker than others. And then socially, it’s like a second family. ” Quick Facts Quick Facts Show Hide LLC Overview Size: 38 students Location: The Shoeboxes- Young Hall Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: Animal and Veterinary Science majors, women only Application: No Fee: $175 Contact Information Contact Information Jason Allen, M.Ed. Academic Advisor and Director for WAVS 131 Poole Agricultural Center 864-656-3162 Ja6@clemson.edu Jason Allen, M.Ed. Academic Advisor and Director for WAVS 131 Poole Agricultural Center 864-656-3162 Ja6@clemson.edu Learn More Return to previous Return Previous Community You Looked At Community listings View Community Listings If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information