Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us Assignments Spring Housing Transfer Housing Summer Start Continuing Housing Sign-up New Student Housing Sign-up Bridge Student Housing Sign-up Summer Housing Sign-up Contracts, Rates, & Policies Accommodated Housing Room Changes Housing & Dining Cancellations Sub-navigation New Student Housing Sign-up Sign-Up Requirements Acceptance to Clemson University Each newly accepted student can locate their CUID number in their Admitted Student Portal. You will need your CUID number to complete the sign up processes You must create your username before you are able to log in to sign up for Housing & Dining For assistance with your CUID, username and password, contact CCIT by phone at 864-656-3494 After identifying your CUID, username and password, log in to the University Housing & Dining portal using your Clemson University credentials. This may take up to 24-48 hours to update in our system. Record of Enrollment Deposit Allow two to three business days for the record of payment to update in our system. If paying by check, you must allow additional time for the funds to be received and processed. FAQs Clemson Home Portal Step-by-Step Guide Contract Feb. 1 (at 8:30 AM ET) – May 16 (Noon at 12:00 PM ET) Visit the Clemson Home Portal to sign up for Academic Year Housing and Dining. Select a Term If you plan to begin classes in Aug. 2022 – select Academic Year 2022-23 Payment Pay the $150, non-refundable, housing contract fee This one-time fee is only assessed when you initially sign up for on-campus housing Pay by credit card; the University accepts any major credit card as a form of payment Contract & Addendum Carefully review and electronically sign the contract and addendum The contract and addendum are legally binding upon acceptance of the terms and conditions We highly recommend you retain a copy of the Clemson University Housing Contract and Addendum. While on this page, you will have the options to save and/or print Select Your Dining Plan Unlimited + 300 Unlimited + 200 Unlimited + 100 Consider Your Community Choices Select a specific Living-Learning Community or First Year *Applying for Housing after the deadline? Don’t worry! Housing is guaranteed for all first-year students. While late applicants will not be able to select roommates or participate in Priority Room Selection, we will offer rolling room selection later in the summer so you can still select your space. Roommate Groups Feb. 1 (at 8:30 AM ET) – May 16 (Noon at 12:00 PM ET) Create your profile in the Clemson Home Portal Create your roommate group prior to the deadline. Select one, two or three roommates Four is the maximum group size Timeslot May 18th Time Slot notifications sent early evening to student’s Clemson University email account Room Selection First Year Students May 19-26 during assigned timeslots. You will also select your move-in appointments at this time. May 19 Room Selection for Honors & RISE May 20 Room Selection for all other Living-Learning Communities May 24-26 Room Selection for students who did not select a community on the Community Choice page Select a space for you and your roommate(s) (if applicable) Room Selection First-Year Students FAQs How Does Priority for Housing Work? Priority is based on your University application date as well as your community choice. Students who select a Living-Learning Community in the Community Choice section will only be able to choose spaces designated for their LLC. These students will receive timeslots on LLC days, based on their application date. How will I know when I can select my housing? You will receive an email with a timeslot. If you have chosen to be part of a roommate group, you will need to compare your timeslots. The roommate with the earliest time will need to select for the whole group. If you are in a group of 3 or 4, be sure that you have discussed with your roommates how the group will be split into the rooms in the suite. If there are no spaces available for your group size, you may need to split up and one person from each room or suite will need to select. What if I don’t know who I want my roommate to be? Don’t worry! The Clemson Home Portal has a roommate matching option, so you will be able to create a profile, answer the lifestyle questions, and search for other students who may be a good fit as a roommate. Do I have to live on-campus and purchase a meal plan? All first-year students are required to live on-campus and purchase an unlimited meal plan. This policy is intended to support your college transition and help to ensure your engagement and success during your first year. Only students who live at home with their parent or guardian in one of the three counties surrounding Clemson University (Anderson, Pickens, and Oconee) are exempt from this requirement. Is housing guaranteed for me? Housing is guaranteed and required for first year and Bridge to Clemson students. On campus housing is prioritized for new-to campus students with the goal of supporting you during your transition and ensuring your engagement and success during that critical first year. Continuing students are offered housing as available. What housing options are available to me? Check out our Residential Communities page for a full list of your housing options. Assignments Spring Housing Transfer Housing Summer Start Continuing Housing Sign-up New Student Housing Sign-up Bridge Student Housing Sign-up Summer Housing Sign-up Contracts, Rates, & Policies Accommodated Housing Room Changes Housing & Dining Cancellations If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information