Skip To Content Florida State University Search: Search site Search FSU Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services University Housing Toggle navigation Menu Home Future Residents Future First–Year Students Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Future Transfer Students Residence Halls Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Graduate Students Academic Resources Current Residents Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Housing Booklets Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Campus Safety Community Standards Academic Resources Parents & Guardians Childcare Human Resources Conference Services About Us Our Welcome Mission Our Staff Contact Us News & Announcements RSO Lounge Request Advertising Policy Housing Leadership Student Leadership & Involvement Student Leadership & Involvement Other Involvement Opportunities Student Leadership & Involvement In University Housing, we recognize that community involvement supports students' personal and academic success in college. Here are some great opportunities to connect with residents, develop your leadership, and enrich life in the residence halls. Hall Council Why Hall Council? Hall Councils are student organizations in each residence hall that work to enhance the experience of living on campus. Hall Council members collaborate to develop community events and provide services for residents. Most importantly, Hall Councils support the personal development of our residents, providing an outlet for students to meet new people, develop leadership skills, and take ownership of their experience at FSU. To learn more you can attend one of our information sessions below: Session 1: Wednesday, August 29th at 7:00pm in the Student Services Building, room 208 Session 2: Thursday, August 30th at 8:00pm in the Traditions Hall Lobby Session 3: Tuesday, September 4th at 8:00pm in the McCollum Hall Lounge Session 4: Wednesday, September 5th at 7:30pm in the Magnolia Hall Lounge Session 5: Thursday, September 6th at 7:00pm in the Cawthon Hall Parlor Applications close Thursday, September 6th at 11:59pm Apply for Hall Council Now Eligibility Requirements In order to be eligible for a position as a Hall Council Officer, students must: Have a 2.5 or higher GPA (no GPA necessary if they are holding a position in their first semester at FSU, but they must have a 2.5 or higher – or whatever GPA is required by their LLC, if applicable - after their first semester). Be a registered FSU student with a minimum of 9 registered undergraduate or 6 graduate hours. Be in good judicial standing, which is defined as not being under conduct or disciplinary probation at the time of election or while in office. Live in the on-campus residence hall they are elected to represent during their term of office. Find out more about Inter–Residence Hall Council National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) NRHH is an honorary organization, whose members represent the top 1% of student leaders living on–campus. NRHH spearheads initiatives that support community service, recognition, leadership development, and scholastic achievement. Student leaders who have lived on-campus for at least one semester and have made demonstrated outstanding leadership in the residence halls are eligible candidates for membership. Find out more about National Residence Hall Honorary Residential Conduct Board The Residential Conduct Board is a group of on-campus students trained to hold informal hearings involving violations of the Florida State University Student Conduct Code and Guide to Residence Living. The Conduct Board actively upholds University Housing policies to maintain a safe and responsible campus community. The Residential Conduct Board provides a unique opportunity for students to serve the community by promoting civility and accountability within the residence halls. This is a great leadership opportunity for those residential students interested in pursuing a career in law or government. Find out more about the Residential Conduct Board Contacts TBD Program Coordinator, Leadership & Engagement Tel: (850) 645-0956 Fax: (850) 644-7997 Alethea Oliphant Program Coordinator, Conduct & Care Tel: (850) 644-1906 Fax: (850) 645-9572 aoliphant@fsu.edu TBD Assistant Coordinator, Leadership & Engagement Tel: (850) 645-0957 Fax: (850) 644-7997 Other Involvement Opportunities Student Organizations and Involvement The Office of Student Organizations and Involvement at Florida State University is more than just a place. The Office of Student Organizations and Involvement serves as a guide for Florida State students in molding and creating their FSU experience. The Office of Student Organizations and Involvement believes that student involvement outside of the classroom contributes to important learning gains and a well rounded college experience that prepares students for life after graduation. Find out more about the Office of Student Organizations and Involvement Nole Central Florida State University has over 600 Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs) on campus. Find out more about the different student organizations and how to get involved on Nole Central. Find out more about Nole Central Division of Student Affairs The Division of Student Affairs collaborates with students, faculty, and staff to create welcoming, supportive and challenging environments that maximize opportunities for student learning and success. Through high quality programs and services, the Division staff facilitates student development, celebrates differences, and promotes civic and global responsibility. Find out more about the Division of Student Affairs Return to top of page University Housing Department Division of Student Affairs 109 Askew Student Life Building Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: 850–644–2860 Fax: 850–644–7997 Email: housing@fsu.edu University Housing: Facebook Instagram Twitter © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media