Skip To Content Florida State University Search: Search site Search FSU Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services University Housing Toggle navigation Menu Home Future Residents Future First–Year Students Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Future Transfer Students Residence Halls Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Graduate Students Academic Resources Current Residents Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Housing Booklets Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Campus Safety Community Standards Academic Resources Parents & Guardians Childcare Human Resources Conference Services About Us Our Welcome Mission Our Staff Contact Us News & Announcements RSO Lounge Request Advertising Policy Housing Conference Services Conference Services University Housing invites you and your group to stay with us this summer. At Florida State University, we have accommodations that will allow you to enjoy the convenience of on-campus living, comfortable facilities and personal service. We provide housing to a variety of visiting groups including youth, adult, athletic, and academic organizations. From mid-May through the first week of August, we can accommodate guests in our halls. We strive to provide a successful on-campus experience tailored specifically for your group’s unique needs. Please keep in mind that we can only provide housing accommodations. Dates of Availability Conference Housing will be available from May 16, 2022 through August 1, 2022. Intake Form Please have the following information ready in order to submit an intake form for your group: Dates your group will need housing for How many beds you will be needing How many staff will be staying with the group *If you are hosting a program with minors, you must have the appropriate number of staff staying in the residence hall: 6 – 8 year olds; 1 adult to every 6 children 9 – 14 year olds; 1 adult to every 8 children 15 – 17 year olds; 1 adult to every 10 children Any special accommodations your groups might need FSU Departments Only: Contact information of your budget manager If you have multiple sessions and do not have guests staying between sessions, please submit a separate intake form for each session. Common Charges Details of Process Fill out an intake form to start an inquiry to secure housing for the summer. If you have multiple camps/sessions/etc., please fill out an individual intake form for each session. Intake Form Depending on if an FSU department is paying or not, there is a different step. FSU Departments: University Housing will send the main contact and the budget manager listed on the intake form a quote so that a purchase order can be placed for the conference. We cannot provide housing accommodations until the purchase order is submitted and approved for the conference. Non-FSU Departments: If you have not done business with the University before, please fill out the Auxiliary Customer Add Form below and send to skleuver@fsu.edu. External Auxiliary Add/Update Request Form Once either the purchase order or the Auxiliary Customer Add form is filled out, University Housing will send a confirmation, along with what residence hall your group will be placed in. Contracts will start going out in the Spring via DocuSign. These will need to be signed and returned back at least two weeks before check-in. The first guests arrive from your conference. Welcome to FSU! Procedures and Regulations Insurance Requirements and the Vulnerable Persons Act Procedures and Regulations Types of Accommodations View Accommodations Intern Housing Program Florida State University’s Summer Intern Housing Program allows summer interns to have flexible move-in and move-out dates and frees them the trouble of finding a lease/sublet for the summer. A walking distance from Downtown Tallahassee, Florida State University is an ideal location for those coming to Tallahassee for the summer. Room Options Intern are housed in Ragans Hall. All rooms will have a full sized kitchen and a living room. Interns will have the option to choose between the following room options: Apartment Shared ($210/week): Private Room; Bathroom shared with one other intern; kitchen and living area shared with 2-3 other interns. Apartment Private ($231/week): Private Room; Private Bathroom; Private Living Room. Eligibility In order to be eligible for intern housing at Florida State University, you must have the following criteria: Enrollment at an accredited university Fulfilling an internship in the Tallahassee area Interns are only allowed housing accommodations during the duration of their internship Intern Housing Application To apply to the intern housing program, please follow the link to the application form: https://fsu.irisregistration.com/Form/fsushortterm Contacts Emily Thompson Conference Services Program Coordinator Tel: (850) 645-1581 ethompson2@fsu.edu Return to top of page University Housing Department Division of Student Affairs 109 Askew Student Life Building Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: 850–644–2860 Fax: 850–644–7997 Email: housing@fsu.edu University Housing: Facebook Instagram Twitter © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media