Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us Residence Life Our Communities Logistics Graduate Housing Off Campus Housing Summer Conferences Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Off Campus Housing Off Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing, as part of the Department of Housing & Residence Life, aims to help facilitate and cultivate student transitions from on-campus living to off-campus living. Additionally, we hope to serve our graduate, international and professional students in locating a new home away from home. We understand that the life of an off-campus student can be very different from that of the typical college student. Many of you work, have families, and have other obligations to balance. We are here to help make your college career a little smoother. The off-campus community that surrounds Tulane is student-friendly. Most housing is within easy biking or walking distance of campus, and our University bus system serves most of the city, so most off-campus housing is within a few blocks of a bus stop. Plan Your Housing Search Agencies and Services Graduate Housing Resources COVID-19 REPORTING Use this link if you suspect you are infected with COVID-19 or have come in contact with someone who is infected. COVID-19 Reporting Form Quick Links ▾ Housing Portal Maintenance Request Laundry View Community Living Standards Important Dates Rates and Housing Agreement Residential Learning Communities Lounge and Classroom Reservations Forms Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Housing and Residence Life Undergraduate Housing New Orleans, LA 70118 Phone: 504-865-5724 Email: housing@tulane.edu Deming Pavilion Graduate Housing 204 S. Saratoga St. Office - 2nd Floor New Orleans, LA 70112 Phone: 504-988-6275 Email: Deming@tulane.edu News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University