Skip To Content Florida State University Search: Search site Search FSU Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services University Housing Toggle navigation Menu Home Future Residents Future First–Year Students Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Future Transfer Students Residence Halls Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Graduate Students Academic Resources Current Residents Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Housing Booklets Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Campus Safety Community Standards Academic Resources Parents & Guardians Childcare Human Resources Conference Services About Us Our Welcome Mission Our Staff Contact Us News & Announcements RSO Lounge Request Advertising Policy Housing Future Residents Academic Resources Sarah Sheldon Assistant Director Learning & Engagement Tel: (850) 645-0969 ssheldon@fsu.edu Academic Resources Academic Resource Centers Academic Training Engage100 Academic Resources University Housing’s mission is to provide exceptional living opportunities for students to succeed academically. Our goal is to empower and support students to reach their full potential through events, interactions, and experiences beyond the classroom. Residential students will enhance their academics and career readiness by connecting with campus partners and faculty. Our Engage 100 course, Academic Resource Centers, and scholarship consultations are available to help launch YOUR academic success. Academic Resource Centers Academic Resource Centers (ARC) are convenient spaces for students living on-campus to study, collaborate and excel academically. Whether studying alone or working on a group project, the ARC provides an on-campus space for communal and individual learning. Academic Resource Centers provide a place to study, work on homework, read, or meet with an Academic Trainer. There are multiple seating options, whiteboards, and resources for projection. Current ARC locations include: Jennie Murphree Hall: Ground Floor (All Residents) Landis Hall: First Floor (Residents of Broward, Landis, and Gilchrist) DeGraff East: First Floor (Residents of DeGraff East and DeGraff West) Academic Training Academic Trainers are current Florida State University students who serve University Housing by helping residential students succeed in their academic endeavors. Academic Trainers work in our Academic Resource Centers as peer educators to help students with study skills, study scheduling, and resource referral. Academic Trainers are also mentors in our Engage 100 Course, Residential Scholars: Community and College Life. Students who need academic assistance can make appointments to meet with an Academic Trainer. We offer two types of consultations: Time Management and Study Skills. Based on the type of appointment, Academic Trainers will be able to gear conversations toward the individual needs of the students they meet with. Students wanting to meet with an Academic Trainer can schedule an appointment here . Engage100 University Housing teaches a class called Residential Scholars: Community and College Life. This course is only available for first year residential students! Through taking this course, you will be better equipped to develop wellness habits, enhance your study skills, learn more about who you are, and connect with the FSU community! Successful completion of this course will allow students to: Discover pathways to environmental, physical, emotional, and financial well being Identify strategies to enhance academics and career readiness Develop their identity as active community members Demonstrate responsibility and mindfulness when engaging their communities The class will meet as a small group one hour each week and is just the beginning of the academic enhancement opportunities available to you as a Housing resident. For more information on this course as well as other engage 100 opportunities, check out https://engage100.fsu.edu/. Return to top of page University Housing Department Division of Student Affairs 109 Askew Student Life Building Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: 850–644–2860 Fax: 850–644–7997 Email: housing@fsu.edu University Housing: Facebook Instagram Twitter © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media