Skip to main content For Yale Undergraduate Housing questions please email yalecollegehousing@yale.edu. Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Yale Housing Home Graduate Housing Residence Life Self Service Portal Off Campus Living Resources Home > Resources > Arriving > Dormitory Check-In Dormitory Check-In August 2022 Arrival *Due to COVID - 19, the move in process will change to be appointment based. More information will be available at the end of July/early August. Guidelines for Moving In: Must always wear a fabric face-covering while on campus Practice good hand hygiene using sanitizing stations Maintain a 6-foot separation from anyone else you encounter. These guidelines are essential to protect your safety as well as other members of the community. Yale custodial staff will also be sanitizing the various touchpoints of the buildings during this move in process. DO NOT return to campus if you are unwell or displaying any of the known symptoms of COVID-19, particularly on the day of your appointment. Medical Student Check-In for Harkness Hall Location Date Time Medical Students August 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Check-In Location Date Time HHH, Harkness Hall, 272 Elm and Baker Hall August 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Check-In Weekend Location Date Time 254 Prospect St. and 276 Prospect St. August By appointment, contact your Community Fellow Late Check-In Location Date Time All Dorms After August By appointment, contact your Community Fellow. Check in directly at your assigned dormitory address to pick up keys and a temporary access card. After Move-In Check-Ins ALL dormitory check-ins outside of the posted dates and hours are by appointment only with the Community Fellow of the student’s dormitory – for both new and returning students. Click here for the Community Fellow contact information. Appointment Check-in Recommendations: Three to five days prior to arrival, confirm your appointment with your Community Fellow with the date and approximate time you are arriving to New Haven. If two days pass without confirmation, email housing@yale.edu for assistance. How to gain access to your building - ID Card You will receive a temporary access card from Yale Housing that will allow electronic card access into your residential building until you are provided a new Yale ID at your School Orientation. Temporary IDs MUST be returned to the Housing Office upon receipt of your permanent Yale ID. Additional NavigationClose Resources New to Yale Arriving Apartment Check-In Dormitory Check-In Orientation FAQs Fire Safety Health and Safety Links Related Yale Links Navigating New Haven Maintenance and Utilities Furniture Rental Harkness Gym Membership Yale Facilities About Us Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 420 Temple Street, New Haven, CT housing@yale.edu | Phone: (203) 432-2167 Facebook