Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us CREATE The CREATE Living-Learning Community is a new LLC for first-year students in the College of Architecture, Arts, and Humanities. The CREATE LLC emphasizes the four pillars of the college, which include creativity, collaboration, critical thinking, and communication. Overview LLC Overview Did you Know Did You Know? Speech bubble Student Perspective Quick facts Quick Facts LLC Overview Students who are involved in the CREATE LLC will have access to a live-in Faculty in Residence from the College of AAH and will be involved in sponsored programs and engaged opportunities with additional faculty and staff from the College of Architecture, Arts, and Humanities. Throughout the course of the year, students will focus on how to foster interdisciplinary collaborations, how to navigate their major and courses of study, and how to translate their coursework into future professional careers. Students in the CREATE LLC will share similar courses with their peers and will be connected to professors, alumni, and upperclass mentors. They will have many opportunities to be involved in exciting programming opportunities that will connect them to peers and promote student success. Did You Know? Majors included in this community: Architecture, Construction Science and Management, English, History, Landscape Architecture, Language and International Health, Language and International Trade, Pan African Studies, Women’s Leadership, Philosophy, Religious Studies, Production Studies in Performing Arts, Visual Arts, UD AAH Student Perspective coming soon Quick Facts Size: 12 Students Location: The Shoeboxes-Geer Hall Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: Students in majors within the College of AAH Application: None required Overview LLC Overview Show Hide LLC Overview Throughout the course of the year, students will focus on how to foster interdisciplinary collaborations, how to navigate their major and courses of study, and how to translate their coursework into future professional careers. Students in the CREATE LLC will share similar courses with their peers and will be connected to professors, alumni, and upperclass mentors. They will have many opportunities to be involved in exciting programming opportunities that will connect them to peers and promote student success. Did you know? Did You Know? Show Hide LLC Overview Majors included in this community: Architecture, Construction Science and Management, English, History, Landscape Architecture, Language and International Health, Language and International Trade, Pan African Studies, Women’s Leadership, Philosophy, Religious Studies, Production Studies in Performing Arts, Visual Arts, UD AAH Speech bubble Student Perspective Show Hide LLC Overview coming soon Quick Facts Quick Facts Show Hide LLC Overview Size: 12 Students Location: The Shoeboxes-Geer Hall Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: Students in majors within the College of AAH Application: None required Return to previous Return Previous Community You Looked At Community listings View Community Listings If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information