Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us CONNECTIONS The Office of Community Achievement and Student Empowerment establishes transitional programs and supportive services that cultivate student and family engagement in the Clemson Community. CONNECTIONS is an initiative to assist first-year students of color with their transition to Clemson University. Overview LLC Overview Did you Know Did You Know? Speech bubble Student Perspective Quick facts Quick Facts LLC Overview The Center for Student Leadership & Engagement seeks to create a uniquely Clemson experience that prepares every Clemson student to be a leader in their profession and community. We strive to prepare students to lead with honesty, integrity, and respect. CONNECTIONS is an initiative to assist first-year students that identify as a student of color (African-American, Black, Hispanic/Latinx, Asian, Native American, multiracial) or a first generation student to begin their Clemson journey. Through our program, students will have opportunities for transformation related to personal development, academic engagement, culture and diversity, a support network and involvement. Program Note: Students interested in participating in the CONNECTIONS program may also live in a partner LLC: RiSE, CUBS, or WAVS. Peer Mentoring Social Events Networking with University Faculty and Staff Weekly Shared Learning Experience (Self and Career Development) Did You Know? CONNECTIONS participants become leaders in the Clemson Community through participation in Clemson Undergraduate Student Government, Council on Diversity Affairs, Minority Recruitment Team, Orientation Ambassador, Resident Assistants, Clemson University Tour Guides or create their own recognized student organization. Student Perspective “Getting the opportunity to live in Holmes was probably one of the best things about my college career. It helped me gain an awesome friend group, support network and allowed me to thrive my freshman year. The accountability and the fun that being in Holmes provided me is something that allowed me to start my time at Clemson with success!”-Camryn Hubbard Quick Facts Size: 75 Students Location: Holmes Hall Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: All Majors Welcome, Coed Application: When you sign up for Housing & Dining, you will need to select CONNECTIONS from the list on the Community Choice page. Also, you will need to complete the program application. Fee: None Required Overview LLC Overview Show Hide LLC Overview Peer Mentoring Social Events Networking with University Faculty and Staff Weekly Shared Learning Experience (Self and Career Development) Did you know? Did You Know? Show Hide LLC Overview CONNECTIONS participants become leaders in the Clemson Community through participation in Clemson Undergraduate Student Government, Council on Diversity Affairs, Minority Recruitment Team, Orientation Ambassador, Resident Assistants, Clemson University Tour Guides or create their own recognized student organization. Speech bubble Student Perspective Show Hide LLC Overview “Getting the opportunity to live in Holmes was probably one of the best things about my college career. It helped me gain an awesome friend group, support network and allowed me to thrive my freshman year. The accountability and the fun that being in Holmes provided me is something that allowed me to start my time at Clemson with success!”-Camryn Hubbard Quick Facts Quick Facts Show Hide LLC Overview Size: 75 Students Location: Holmes Hall Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: All Majors Welcome, Coed Application: When you sign up for Housing & Dining, you will need to select CONNECTIONS from the list on the Community Choice page. Also, you will need to complete the program application. Fee: None Required Contact Information Contact Information Mikayla Morris Assistant Director for Student Leader Development mmorr26@clemson.edu Mikayla Morris Assistant Director for Student Leader Development mmorr26@clemson.edu Return to previous Return Previous Community You Looked At Community listings View Community Listings If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information