Skip To Content Florida State University Search: Search site Search FSU Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services University Housing Toggle navigation Menu Home Future Residents Future First–Year Students Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Future Transfer Students Residence Halls Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Graduate Students Academic Resources Current Residents Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Housing Booklets Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Campus Safety Community Standards Academic Resources Parents & Guardians Childcare Human Resources Conference Services About Us Our Welcome Mission Our Staff Contact Us News & Announcements RSO Lounge Request Advertising Policy Contract & Processes Housing Contracts Important Dates Room Assignments Special Interest Housing Contract Terms & Conditions Contract Cancellation Meal Plan Information Housing Future Residents Contract & Processes Housing Contracts Housing Contracts Fall/Spring Spring Summer Parent/Guardian Contract Consent Fall/Spring Housing Eligibility Students who have been admitted to FSU for Summer or Fall 2022 are eligible to complete this contract. Students who are in a “deferred” or “waitlist” status with Admissions are not eligible to complete a housing contract until they are fully admitted. The Fall/Spring contract will open on Wednesday, February 23, 2022 at 9 AM. However, we know that you are busy and may have tests, school events, or family commitments at that time. You have the flexibility to submit the housing contract at any time from when it opens on February 23 through 11:59pm February 24, and be included in our earliest contract group. Students who submit contracts on these first two days will all be entered into a lottery and will receive a randomized contract number on February 25th. If you submit your contract on February 25th or later, you will receive a contract number based on the date and time your contract is submitted. The contract number serves as your "place in line" for receiving on-campus housing. Your contract number will be larger than those who contracted during the first two days. The contract will be open until May 1st, but remember that the earlier you submit your contract, the more options will be available at the time of your assignment. Activate Your FSUID To access the contract on the housing portal, you will need to have activated your FSUID. To activate your FSUID, visit my.fsu.edu and click "Activate Your FSUID". You will need: Your EMPLID as provided by Admissions (a nine-digit number) Your date of birth The last five digits of your social security number Summer Admits Please complete your Fall/Spring contract before you complete your Summer B housing contract, as we become fully booked for Fall/Spring housing much earlier than Summer. The Summer B contract will be available starting on March 2, 2022. Terms and Conditions of the Contract The following are highlights of the terms and conditions of the Fall 2022/Spring 2023 housing contract: This contract creates a financial obligation to pay on-campus rent for both Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 semesters. This contract is binding regardless of room assignment. This contract cannot be cancelled for Fall 2022 unless you provide written notice to the Housing office that you will not be attending Florida State University for Fall 2022. If notice is provided by May 1, 2022 and you made a prepayment, you will be refunded your prepayment less a $50 cancellation fee. This contract cannot be cancelled for Spring 2023 unless you provide written notice to the Housing office that you will not be attending Florida State University for Spring 2023, OR are studying abroad for Spring 2023. The full Housing Contract Terms and Conditions are available here. Process Your contract will be cancelled and you will lose your original contract number if you do not complete all of the steps below. Step 1 — Submit the Contract Login to the myHousing portal with your FSUID and password Select the "Fall 2022/Spring 2023 housing contract" Follow the steps provided to indicate: Contact information Individuals to release housing contract/billing information Missing person emergency contact Agree to the terms and conditions of the contract. Step 2 — Within 7 calendar days of submitting the contract, make your Prepayment Click on the FSU Fee Payment site Click "I have a permanent FSUID" button Enter your login information (this will automatically redirect you to the "make a payment" screen in your Student Central account) Select the checkbox next to "Housing Deposit" Click "Continue" Continue following remaining prompts to select your payment method and make payment Step 3 — Within 7 calendar days of submitting the contract, send in your Parent/Guardian Contract Consent form, if applicable Download the Fall/Spring Contract Parent/Guardian Contract Consent form PDF Print and complete the form, including non-electronic signatures Return form and allow 2 business days for processing Check Contract Status You can check the status of your contract, payment, required forms, view your contract number and any roommate requests on the housing portal. Login to the myHousing portal, if not already logged in Click "My Home" Click "Check Contract Status" Look for any items marked as NOT COMPLETE and follow the instructions provided by the deadline listed for each item. Cancellation Only students who will not be attending Florida State University for the Fall Semester will be permitted to cancel their Fall/Spring housing contract. To cancel your contract: Login to the myHousing portal, if not already logged in Click "My Home" Follow the prompts on the page Repeat for Summer C contract, if applicable Roommate Request — Submit Between March 7 and April 13 Incoming students who would like to room with a specific individual (must also be an incoming student) will be able to submit a roommate request starting March 7 through April 13. Students with a mutual roommate request will be assigned based on the worst/highest contract number of the roommate pair. Complete the following to request a roommate: Login to the myHousing portal, if not already logged in Click "My Home" Click "Select Roommate Request" Follow the prompts on the page. You will need the last name and date of birth of the student that you would like to request. Check to see if your requested roommate is "Confirmed". If not, have your requested roommate follow these steps to request you. Room Assignments Starting March 7, students who have submitted a Fall/Spring housing contract will be able to submit building and room type preferences. University Housing staff will use these preferences to assign students in contract number order. Students who completed a housing contract and pay an admission deposit by May 1, and completed registration for orientation by May 6, will receive more information about housing assignments in late June. Remember that if you mutually select a roommate on your housing contract, you and your roommate will be assigned using the later/worst of your two contract numbers. Spring 2022 Housing Students who have been admitted to FSU for Spring 2022, and current FSU students who are living off-campus or at home can complete the Spring 2022 contract. The Spring 2022 contract will be available starting in late October and will be available until late November. Assignments are made based on the contract submission date and will be published in mid to late-December, no later than December 22nd. You can tell us your room type preferences through November 19th. Our ability to honor your room type preferences will depend on what space is available at the time you are assigned. Halls will open January 3rd at 3pm. Information about move-in will be sent with assignment notifications. Terms and Conditions of the Contract The following are highlights of the terms and conditions of the Spring 2022 housing contract: This contract creates a financial obligation to pay rent for on-campus housing for the Spring 2022 semester. This contract cannot be cancelled for Spring 2022 unless you provide written notice to the Housing office that you will not be enrolled in any Florida State University classes (including online/remote courses) for Spring 2022. Notification must be received by our office in writing prior to the official hall opening date on January 3, 2022. Prior to submitting the contract, you should consider your own personal health status and any increased COVID related risk factors when deciding to live on campus. This contract is binding regardless of room assignment. Please see below for important information about the availability of preferences for the spring semester. The full Housing Contract Terms and Conditions are available here. Process The process to complete your housing contract is as follows. Click each step below to learn specifics about how to complete each item. Step 1 — Complete online portion of contract, including reviewing the terms and conditions of the housing contract Step 2 — Within 7 calendar days of completing Step 1, pay the $225 advance payment on the FSU Fee Payment site Step 3 — Within 7 calendar days of completing Step 1, submit Parent/Guardian Signature Form (if student is under 18 on the contract submission date). Failure to complete all of the steps that apply to you will result in cancellation of your housing contract, and will require you to resubmit your contract, if available. Step 1 — Online Portion of Contract Login to the myHousing portal with your FSUID and password Select the "Housing Contract" under the Spring 2022 heading Follow the steps provided until you reach the page that confirms that you have submitted the online portion of your housing contract Step 2 — Submit Prepayment Click on this link: FSU Fee Payment site Click "I have a permanent FSUID" button Enter your login information (this will automatically redirect you to the "make a payment" screen in your Student Central account) Select the checkbox next to "Housing Deposit" (MAKE A PAYMENT PDF) Click "Continue" Continue following remaining prompts to select your payment method and make payment Step 3 — Submit Parent/Guardian Signature, if applicable Download the Spring Contract Parent/Guardian Signature form PDF Fill in pertinent information on the form Print and sign form with pen (cannot be an electronic signature) Return form (instructions provided on form) within 7 calendar days of your contract submission date Check Contract Status Complete the following to check your status: Login to the myHousing portal, if not already logged in Click "My Home" Click "Check Contract Status" under the Spring 2022 heading Look for any items marked as NOT COMPLETE and follow the instructions provided by the deadline listed for each item Cancellation Only students who will not be enrolling in any Florida State University classes (including online/remote courses) for the Spring Semester will be permitted to cancel their Spring housing contract. Cancellation of your contract will also result in cancellation of your FSU admission. To cancel your contract: Login to the myHousing portal, if not already logged in Click "My Home" Click "Cancel Housing Contract" Follow the prompts on the page Updating Room Type Preference Since new Spring 2022 residents are assigned to spaces that are vacated by Fall 2021 residents, our ability to accommodate room type preferences from new spring residents may be limited or not possible. Unfortunately, due to the limited number of vacancies available for Spring semester, we are unable to offer the option to request a specific roommate or hall for the Spring semester. Login to the myHousing portal, if not already logged in Click "My Home" Click "Update/Review Preferences and Contact Information" Follow the prompts on the page Updating room type preferences will not change your contract submission date. Summer Housing Eligibility Only students who have been admitted to FSU for Summer 2022 are eligible to complete this contract. The Summer B housing contract for first-year students will be available on March 2, 2022. If you intend to live on campus for Summer and Fall/Spring terms, you should NOT wait to complete your Fall/Spring contract until the Summer contract is available, as this will significantly impact your Fall/Spring contract number. Your Summer B contract does not carry over to your Fall/Spring contract. NOTE: The upper division transfer and off-campus summer housing contracts for Summer terms A, B and C will open in late March. Process Your contract will be cancelled and you will lose your original contract date if you do not complete all of the steps below. Step 1 — Submit the Contract Login to the myHousing portal with your FSUID and password Select the "Summer B housing contract" Follow the steps provided to indicate: Building preferences Room type preferences Individuals to release housing contract/billing information Missing person emergency contact Step 2 — Within 7 calendar days of submitting the contract, make your prepayment Click on the FSU Fee Payment site Click "I have a permanent FSUID" button Enter your login information (this will automatically redirect you to the "make a payment" screen in your Student Central account) Select the checkbox next to "Housing Deposit" Click "Continue" Continue following remaining prompts to select your payment method and make payment Step 3 — Within 7 calendar days of submitting the contract, send in your Parent/Guardian Contract Consent, if applicable Download the Summer B Contract Parent/Guardian Contract Consent form PDF Print and complete the form, including non-electronic signatures Return form and allow 2 business days for processing Terms and Conditions of the Contract The following are highlights of the terms and conditions of the Summer housing contract: This contract creates a financial obligation to pay on-campus rent for Summer B. This contract is binding regardless of room assignment. This contract cannot be cancelled unless you provide written notice that you will not be attending Florida State University for Summer B 2022. Room Assignments University Housing staff will assign room numbers to all contracted and eligible students. Summer room assignments will be available on the housing portal in early June, shortly before the start of the Summer B term. Students are assigned in order by the date/time students complete Step 1 of their housing contract as long as the student completes Steps 2 & 3 by the deadlines. Roommate Requests Incoming students who would like to room with a specific individual will be able to submit a roommate request starting on March 2 and through May 1. Those students with a mutual roommate request at the time room assignments are made will be assigned based on the latest contract date of the roommate pair. Complete the following to request a roommate: Login to the myHousing portal, if not already logged in Click "My Home" Click "Select Roommate Requests" Follow the prompts on the page. You will need the last name and date of birth of anyone that you would like to request. Check to see if your requested roommate is "Confirmed". If not, have your requested roommate follow these steps to request you. Preferences You can update your preferences as many times as you would like until May 1. Login to the myHousing portal, if not already logged in Click "My Home" Click "Update Preferences" Follow the prompts on the page Updating building and room type preferences will not change your contract date. Cancellation Only students who will not be attending Florida State University for the Summer B Semester will be permitted to cancel their Summer B housing contract. To cancel your contract: Login to the myHousing portal, if not already logged in Click "My Home" Click "Cancel Contract" Follow the prompts on the page Parent/Guardian Contract Consent Students that submit the online portion of their housing contract and thereby agree to the terms and conditions of the housing contract when under 18 years of age must also have a parent/guardian accept the contract terms and conditions using this form. NOTE: Completing this form is NOT the same as submitting a housing contract! Students must ALSO submit the housing contract online. Instructions Complete the following steps within 7 days of contract submission: Download the appropriate form below and open in your PDF reader (i.e. Adobe Reader). Fill out fields on the form in your PDF reader (if available). Print and sign (student and parent) the form–electronic/typed signatures are not acceptable. Return form using one of these methods: Scan/photograph signed document so it can be legibly read and email to housing@fsu.edu with "Parent Guardian Contract Consent" in the subject line (Preferred Method) Fax signed document to (850) 644-7997 If a Parent/Guardian Contract Consent is not received for a contract period (i.e. Summer, Fall/Spring, Spring) within 7 days of contract submission, the student's housing contract may be cancelled. Signature Forms Parent-Guardian Contract Consent — Summer 2022 (PDF) Parent Guardian Contract Consent — Fall 2022/Spring 2023 (PDF) Return to top of page University Housing Department Division of Student Affairs 109 Askew Student Life Building Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: 850–644–2860 Fax: 850–644–7997 Email: housing@fsu.edu University Housing: Facebook Instagram Twitter © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media