Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us COMMunity The COMMunity LLC is designed to help first-year Communication & Sports Communication majors and minors grow and develop. Overview LLC Overview Did you Know Did You Know? Speech bubble Student Perspective Quick facts Quick Facts LLC Overview Students in their first year of the LLC will participate in shared coursework, so each first-year group functions as a cohort. Students in these cohorts are guaranteed placement in core Communication courses tailored to the LLC experience. In addition to the residential experience and shared coursework, students in COMMunity will have access to a variety of programming, including: Workshops on academic and professional topics Colloquia to connect students with COMM faculty and professionals in the discipline Opportunities to work with and learn from COMM alumni Social activities and community building Academic and mentorship support from a COMM faculty-in-residence and a small group of faculty fellows In the second-year cohort, students have the opportunity to mentor students in the first-year cohort. Students who continue into their Sophomore year will also have access to more tailored programming, looking more toward career and internship opportunities. Students in COMMunity arrive on campus with a pre-built framework to support learning, development, and access to appropriate student services. Did You Know? Students also have opportunities to develop relationships with COMM faculty outside of the classroom setting from their first semester on campus. In these contexts, students are able to: Engage in shared coursework with a cohort of other first-year students Apply course content to real-world cases and situations through extracurricular programming Engage in academic and professional development in a communication-tailored context Student Perspective coming soon Quick Facts Size: 10 students per first-year cohort Location: Mickel Hall Roommate policy: First-year students may only request other program participants Restrictions: None Fee: $180 per semester Overview LLC Overview Show Hide LLC Overview Students in COMMunity arrive on campus with a pre-built framework to support learning, development, and access to appropriate student services. Did you know? Did You Know? Show Hide LLC Overview Students also have opportunities to develop relationships with COMM faculty outside of the classroom setting from their first semester on campus. In these contexts, students are able to: Engage in shared coursework with a cohort of other first-year students Apply course content to real-world cases and situations through extracurricular programming Engage in academic and professional development in a communication-tailored context Speech bubble Student Perspective Show Hide LLC Overview coming soon Quick Facts Quick Facts Show Hide LLC Overview Size: 10 students per first-year cohort Location: Mickel Hall Roommate policy: First-year students may only request other program participants Restrictions: None Fee: $180 per semester Return to previous Return Previous Community You Looked At Community listings View Community Listings If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information