Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us Lavender Place Lavender Place is an LGBTQIA+ Living Learning Community dedicated to affirming, embracing, and advancing students who identify as part of, or allies of, the LGBTQIA+ community. Lavender Place offers an inclusive community where students can comfortably explore and express their identities and find equitable access to appropriate facilities such as bathrooms. Lavender Place is open to both new and continuing students of all gender identities and sexual orientations. Joining Lavender Place requires an application to ensure that every student who applies understands the opportunity and requirements of the community. This year, we offer 12 spots for incoming students and 4 spots for continuing students. Overview LLC Overview Did you Know Did You Know? Speech bubble Student Perspective Quick facts Quick Facts LLC Overview Students in Lavender Place will have the opportunity to participate in annual service projects and a Creative Inquiry research course that will center LGBTQIA+ studies and help students further explore their identities and community. LGBTQIA+ programming Community activities Annual service learning projects Creative Inquiry research in queer studies Connections to resources on-campus Access to gender-inclusive facilities Did You Know? “2021 is Lavender Place’s inaugural year!” The Creative Inquiry class began in Fall 2020 with the course WS 4900 titled “LGBTQ+ Learning Communities: Queering University Spaces.” There are multiple LGBTQIA+ student organizations at Clemson, such as oSTEM, Clemson Queer Students of Color Association, Clemson’s Sexuality and Gender Alliance (CSAGA), PRISM, Queer in Life Sciences, and CUSG’s Sexuality and Gender Engagement Committee. Student Perspective Quick Facts Size: 16 students Location: Gressette Hall Application: When you sign up for Housing & Dining, you will need to select Lavender Place from the list on the Community Choice page. You will also need to complete the application. Link: https://forms.gle/FSuTXbkEFfQn2vT2A Overview LLC Overview Show Hide LLC Overview LGBTQIA+ programming Community activities Annual service learning projects Creative Inquiry research in queer studies Connections to resources on-campus Access to gender-inclusive facilities Did you know? Did You Know? Show Hide LLC Overview “2021 is Lavender Place’s inaugural year!” The Creative Inquiry class began in Fall 2020 with the course WS 4900 titled “LGBTQ+ Learning Communities: Queering University Spaces.” There are multiple LGBTQIA+ student organizations at Clemson, such as oSTEM, Clemson Queer Students of Color Association, Clemson’s Sexuality and Gender Alliance (CSAGA), PRISM, Queer in Life Sciences, and CUSG’s Sexuality and Gender Engagement Committee. Speech bubble Student Perspective Show Hide LLC Overview Quick Facts Quick Facts Show Hide LLC Overview Size: 16 students Location: Gressette Hall Application: When you sign up for Housing & Dining, you will need to select Lavender Place from the list on the Community Choice page. You will also need to complete the application. Link: https://forms.gle/FSuTXbkEFfQn2vT2A Contact Information Contact Information Kim Carter (They/Them/Theirs), Associate Director of the Gantt Multicultural Center kec2@clemson.edu Dr. Rachel Wagner (She/Her/Hers) Assistant Professor 864-656-5111 rwagne3@clemson.edu Kim Carter (They/Them/Theirs), Associate Director of the Gantt Multicultural Center kec2@clemson.edu Dr. Rachel Wagner (She/Her/Hers) Assistant Professor 864-656-5111 rwagne3@clemson.edu Return to previous Return Previous Community You Looked At Community listings View Community Listings If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information