Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us CUBS CUBS strives to foster a safe living environment that stimulates learning, engagement and collaboration among students, faculty and staff in the College of Business. CUBS connects students to campus and the Clemson community, while broadening their global perspective and affords opportunities to develop friendships and memories to last a lifetime. Majors included in this community: UD Pre-Business (Accounting, Economics BS, Financial Management, Management, and Marketing), Economics BA and Graphic Communication Overview LLC Overview Did you Know Did You Know? Speech bubble Student Perspective Quick facts Quick Facts LLC Overview CUBS connects students to campus and the Clemson community, while broadening their global perspective and affords opportunities to develop friendships and memories to last a lifetime. Welcome retreat at the beginning of Fall semester to build bonds and community with fellow students Additional availability to Academic Advisors and Business Faculty Share courses with other CUBS students featuring smaller class sizes and increased engagement Seminars on time management, stress management, study skills professionalism, study abroad and more Hear from various guest speakers who are experts in their fields Regular social events to maintain bonds Community service opportunities Did You Know? On average CUBS GPAs are higher than other first year students in the College of Business Student Perspective “I am so thankful for CUBS as it provided me with academic, professional, and social opportunities. Coming from out of state, I was worried that the transition would be difficult, but CUBS hosted events starting day 1 which allowed me to connect with new people who possess similar passions. My favorite part of CUBS was all of the supplemental academic support I was provided. Not only was one of my classes held in the building where we lived but my advisor was also right downstairs. I loved that as CUBS students we had sections of classes blocked off just for us. This meant we knew everyone in our class and could all easily meet up on our hall for the best study sessions.” -Emmala Alfaro, CUBS Student Quick Facts Size: 276 students Location: Douthit Hills-East Neighborhood-Building E (closest to the Hub) Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants when signing up for Housing & Dining. Restrictions: Open to all majors and disciplines in College of Business, Econ BA and Graphic Communication Coed. Application: None required. Fee: $400 https://clemson.edu/business/cubs Overview LLC Overview Show Hide LLC Overview Welcome retreat at the beginning of Fall semester to build bonds and community with fellow students Additional availability to Academic Advisors and Business Faculty Share courses with other CUBS students featuring smaller class sizes and increased engagement Seminars on time management, stress management, study skills professionalism, study abroad and more Hear from various guest speakers who are experts in their fields Regular social events to maintain bonds Community service opportunities Did you know? Did You Know? Show Hide LLC Overview On average CUBS GPAs are higher than other first year students in the College of Business Speech bubble Student Perspective Show Hide LLC Overview “I am so thankful for CUBS as it provided me with academic, professional, and social opportunities. Coming from out of state, I was worried that the transition would be difficult, but CUBS hosted events starting day 1 which allowed me to connect with new people who possess similar passions. My favorite part of CUBS was all of the supplemental academic support I was provided. Not only was one of my classes held in the building where we lived but my advisor was also right downstairs. I loved that as CUBS students we had sections of classes blocked off just for us. This meant we knew everyone in our class and could all easily meet up on our hall for the best study sessions.” -Emmala Alfaro, CUBS Student Quick Facts Quick Facts Show Hide LLC Overview Size: 276 students Location: Douthit Hills-East Neighborhood-Building E (closest to the Hub) Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants when signing up for Housing & Dining. Restrictions: Open to all majors and disciplines in College of Business, Econ BA and Graphic Communication Coed. Application: None required. Fee: $400 https://clemson.edu/business/cubs Contact Information Contact Information Jill Williams Academic Advisor | CUBS Coordinator Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academic Advising Center 269 Chandler L. Burns Hall 864-656-2526 cubsllc@clemson.edu Jill Williams Academic Advisor | CUBS Coordinator Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academic Advising Center 269 Chandler L. Burns Hall 864-656-2526 cubsllc@clemson.edu Return to previous Return Previous Community You Looked At Community listings View Community Listings If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information