Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us RISE – Residents In Science and Engineering RISE is a unique residential community designed for first-year students in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) majors at Clemson University in the College of Engineering, Computing, and Applied Sciences and the College of Science. Overview LLC Overview Did you Know Did You Know? Speech bubble Student Perspective Quick facts Quick Facts LLC Overview RISE enhances the Clemson Experience and promotes success for first-year STEM students by supporting academic success, facilitating professional development, and encouraging student engagement among faculty and peers in a socially supportive environment. Academic support through in-hall tutoring services five nights a week Access to grouped courses with other RISE students featuring smaller class sizes Increased access to Faculty, Advisors, and Support staff located in Lever Hall Professional development through faculty sponsored programs and advising Peer support from Resident Assistants with STEM backgrounds Behind the scenes industry tours and events Opportunities to get involved in specialized leadership development and service-learning initiatives If you are interested in learning more, please visit the RISE webpage. Did You Know? RISE is the largest Living-Learning Community at Clemson with over 700 students participating. RISE supports engineering and science disciplines that have been at the heart of Clemson for more than 100 years. In fact, RISE was one of the first Living-Learning Communities to be established and has been in popular demand ever since. Students who choose to be in RISE choose to be part of something greater. The socially supportive environment, proximity to campus resources, in-hall academic support, world-class faculty, and unique industry and leadership engagement opportunities help students make life-long friendships and develop a sense of resiliency to propel them forward into their future career field. Over 96% of RISE students report RISE eased their transition to college and would recommend the program to a friend. Student Perspective “RISE gave me a chance to meet people who shared common interests in STEM. I know I have made life-long friends here.” – Mata Diedhiou, RISE Microbiology Student “RISE has given me the opportunity to expand on my leadership abilities as well as making lasting friendships within the science and engineering community.” – Natalie Armstrong, RISE Mathematical Sciences Student “RISE gave me the opportunity to see similarities between different majors and exposed me to a diverse student support group. Everyone wanted me to succeed and gave me the motivation to get through my first year as a STEM student. Through RISE, I became a better computer scientist and contributor to the community.” – Jeff Rubillo, RISE Computer Science Student “I’ve seen people make lifelong best friends and boost their grades, just by going to their friends for help; friends they wouldn’t have made if they hadn’t lived in RISE. It’s helped me become accustomed to living at college and being away from home. But most of all, it’s helped me make friends and ask for help. – Naomi Paz, RISE Engineering Student Quick Facts Size: 396 students Location: Lever Halls Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: Major specific, and must room with other program participants. Application: None required. After officially selecting RISE as your community choice. Students will receive communication form the RISE Team. Fee: $500.00 per semester* *RISE is dedicated to supporting all students. Needs-based scholarships are available for eligible applicants. To learn more please email clemsonrise@clemson.edu Overview LLC Overview Show Hide LLC Overview RISE enhances the Clemson Experience and promotes success for first-year STEM students by supporting academic success, facilitating professional development, and encouraging student engagement among faculty and peers in a socially supportive environment. Academic support through in-hall tutoring services five nights a week Access to grouped courses with other RISE students featuring smaller class sizes Increased access to Faculty, Advisors, and Support staff located in Lever Hall Professional development through faculty sponsored programs and advising Peer support from Resident Assistants with STEM backgrounds Behind the scenes industry tours and events Opportunities to get involved in specialized leadership development and service-learning initiatives If you are interested in learning more, please visit the RISE webpage. Did you know? Did You Know? Show Hide LLC Overview RISE is the largest Living-Learning Community at Clemson with over 700 students participating. RISE supports engineering and science disciplines that have been at the heart of Clemson for more than 100 years. In fact, RISE was one of the first Living-Learning Communities to be established and has been in popular demand ever since. Students who choose to be in RISE choose to be part of something greater. The socially supportive environment, proximity to campus resources, in-hall academic support, world-class faculty, and unique industry and leadership engagement opportunities help students make life-long friendships and develop a sense of resiliency to propel them forward into their future career field. Over 96% of RISE students report RISE eased their transition to college and would recommend the program to a friend. Speech bubble Student Perspective Show Hide LLC Overview “RISE gave me a chance to meet people who shared common interests in STEM. I know I have made life-long friends here.” – Mata Diedhiou, RISE Microbiology Student “RISE has given me the opportunity to expand on my leadership abilities as well as making lasting friendships within the science and engineering community.” – Natalie Armstrong, RISE Mathematical Sciences Student “RISE gave me the opportunity to see similarities between different majors and exposed me to a diverse student support group. Everyone wanted me to succeed and gave me the motivation to get through my first year as a STEM student. Through RISE, I became a better computer scientist and contributor to the community.” – Jeff Rubillo, RISE Computer Science Student “I’ve seen people make lifelong best friends and boost their grades, just by going to their friends for help; friends they wouldn’t have made if they hadn’t lived in RISE. It’s helped me become accustomed to living at college and being away from home. But most of all, it’s helped me make friends and ask for help. – Naomi Paz, RISE Engineering Student Quick Facts Quick Facts Show Hide LLC Overview Size: 396 students Location: Lever Halls Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: Major specific, and must room with other program participants. Application: None required. After officially selecting RISE as your community choice. Students will receive communication form the RISE Team. Fee: $500.00 per semester* *RISE is dedicated to supporting all students. Needs-based scholarships are available for eligible applicants. To learn more please email clemsonrise@clemson.edu Contact Information Contact Information Erica Harper Director, CLEMSON RISE Residents in Science & Engineering 116 Lever Hall (864) 656-2103 clemsonrise@clemson.edu Erica Harper Director, CLEMSON RISE Residents in Science & Engineering 116 Lever Hall (864) 656-2103 clemsonrise@clemson.edu Learn More Return to previous Return Previous Community You Looked At Community listings View Community Listings If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information