Skip To Content Florida State University Search: Search site Search FSU Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services University Housing Toggle navigation Menu Home Future Residents Future First–Year Students Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Future Transfer Students Residence Halls Contract & Processes Finances Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Graduate Students Academic Resources Current Residents Residence Halls Living–Learning Communities Contract & Processes Finances Housing Booklets Living On-Campus Special Interest Housing Facilities Resources Tips and Resources Leadership Opportunities Campus Safety Community Standards Academic Resources Parents & Guardians Childcare Human Resources Conference Services About Us Our Welcome Mission Our Staff Contact Us News & Announcements RSO Lounge Request Advertising Policy Housing Future Residents Residence Hall Move In Summer Residence Hall Move–In Summer 2022 Summer A & C move-in begins Thursday, May 5, 2022 at 9:00am. Summer B move-in begins Thursday, June 16, 2022 at 9:00am. COVID-19 testing and Isolation Policy Updates: There is no COVID testing or vaccination requirement to live on campus. Due to the broad availability of COVID vaccines and personal protective items such as face coverings, Florida State University has adopted a position like other State University System institutions to no longer offer COVID isolation spaces for students who test positive. Effective Summer 2022, students who test positive for COVID are permitted to isolate in their residence hall room regardless of whether they have a roommate. Students are always welcome to isolate off-campus if they choose; however, they are not required to do so. Students should contact University Health Services for information about medical services available on campus, including COVID testing and vaccines. Summer 2022 Sign Up Genius Please select the hall you have been assinged for Summer 2022 to sign up for your move-in time. Azalea Hall - CARE Cawthon Hall Jennie-Murphree Hall Magnolia Hall McCollum Hall Rogers Hall Traditions Hall Welcome to FSU Before You Arrive Move-In Day After You Arrive Parking University Housing is excited to welcome you to your new home! Living on campus opens up tons of new opportunities for you to meet new people, make new friends, learn new things, and get involved in programs that will enhance your academic experience. Summer A & C Move-In Begins Thursday, May 5, 2022 at 9:00am Thursday, May 5th at 9:00am is the earliest you can move into the residence halls for the Summer A & C sessions. Once the residence halls open at 9:00am, you may check in and pick up your key at any time. When you arrive to your residence hall, ensure you have a picture ID available (preferably your FSUCard, though a state-issued ID will be fine). Residents must be present to sign for and receive your room key. Remember to check the myHousing portal to see your residence hall and room. Don't forget Summer A & C classes begin on Monday, May 9, 2022. Summer B Move-In: Thursday, June 16 through Sunday, June 19, 2022 When you arrive at your residence hall, ensure you have a picture ID available (preferably your FSUCard, though a state-issued ID will be fine). Residents must be present to sign for and receive your room key. Remember to check the myHousing portal to see your residence hall and room. Summer B classes begin on Monday, June 20, 2022. CARE students have a different move-in schedule which will be emailed to you directly Scheduling Your Summer B Move-In Day and Time All students are required to sign up for a move-in day and time. The link to sign up for move-in will be emailed to students at their fsu.edu email address. How to Schedule Your Move-In Appointment Move-in appointments will occur Thursday, June 16 through Sunday, June 19. We are utilizing Sign Up Genius to schedule move-in appointments. You do not need to create a Sign Up Genius account to participate. You will receive a Sign Up Genius link specific to your building. This link will be emailed to your FSU email account. Do not share that link with students who live elsewhere; it will not work for them. You can sign up for one appointment only. Each appointment one hour long. In that hour you should check in to get your key, unload your vehicle, and move your vehicle to a parking garage. You may walk back to your residence hall to finish setting up your room. There are more than enough appointments for all students. There are weekday and weekend appointment options. If your preferred day and time is not available, we cannot schedule you for a day that already has all the slots taken. Please choose an appointment that is closest to your preference. The number of move in slots per day has been carefully calculated to allow for a smooth check in process for everyone. You must use your FSU email (@fsu.edu) to schedule your move-in appointment. Sign Up Genius will not recognize or accept a non-FSU email address. Before You Arrive at FSU What to Bring Still wondering what to bring with you to FSU? Our website has a page filled with what you should bring and what you should leave at home. Check it out here. Move in Tips Pack sensibly and seasonally as summer session is only a few weeks long. There are limited hand-trucks/dollies and moving carts available for checkout on a first-come, first-serve basis at the hall desks. Make sure you have entered your emergency contact information on the housing portal before you arrive. Pets at Move–In It is hot in Tallahassee in summer and pets are not allowed in the residence halls. Please leave your pets at home for their own safety and comfort. Register your Vehicle Good parking habits begin early. Register your vehicle early. Day of Your Arrival at FSU When you arrive to your residence hall, you must have a picture ID (FSUCard or Driver’s License) available. You must be present to sign for and receive your room key. Find your assignment on the myHousing portal. Parking Guidelines Even though classes are not in session during check–in week, the University is open for business and staff and faculty are actively preparing for your arrival. Check–in is a busy time for the University, and the parking lots and streets by residence halls can become congested. The following guidelines will help make your check-in experience positive while allowing University operations to function. Unloading Parking (10–15 minutes) There are very limited parking spaces adjacent to the residence halls. If they are available, you will be able to use these spaces to unload your vehicle only. Parking for vehicle unloading is short term only. Parking After Unloading After unloading, you must immediately move your car to a parking lot or parking garage. You are encouraged to download the FSU Tranz app for your iOS or Android smartphone for availability in the campus parking garages. Good parking habits begin early. Register your vehicle early and park in student parking spaces as soon as possible. Guests For safety reasons, residents must escort their guests, including family members, at all times while guests are in the building. Problems with your Room? If you have any facilities concerns with your room during check–in, please speak with your building’s Facilities Supervisor. Your Facilities Supervisor can be reached through the front desk in your residence hall. After check–in, you are encouraged to submit a housing facilities repair request through our website. Remember to Drink Water! The average temperature in Tallahassee in June is 91°F. Stay hydrated while moving into your residence hall. We recommend bringing a reusable water bottle. After You Move In Whether you're a New 'Nole just starting at FSU, or a senior preparing to graduate, there is plenty to do during the summer at Florida State! If you're looking for stuff to do on campus, check out all the places to go and summer programming available here. Parking More information will be posted once routes are determined for Summer 2022. Return to top of page University Housing Department Division of Student Affairs 109 Askew Student Life Building Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: 850–644–2860 Fax: 850–644–7997 Email: housing@fsu.edu University Housing: Facebook Instagram Twitter © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media