Skip to main content Housing Main navigation Student Housing Freshman Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Medical House Staff Students with Families Non-Traditional Students Postdoctoral Visiting Graduate Researcher (VGR) Current Students Community Housing Faculty Housing Faculty Accommodations Faculty Housing Rates & Information Moving into University Faculty Housing Moving Out of University Apartments Faculty Housing UCLA Staff Housing University Faculty Apartments Eligibility University Faculty Apartments Amenities Summer Housing Dining Services Menus Dining Locations Hours of Operation Services & Programs Nutrition Education Food Allergies Ask the Dietitian Sustainable Dining Comments & Suggestions Open Search Search the site: Breadcrumb Home Dining Services map Restaurant Locations Map schedule Hours of Operation restaurant_menu Menus face Food Allergies Covid-19 Dining Information UCLA Housing has modified our service methodology and activities to support the health and safety of all. Currently our residential restaurants are only open to those living in the on-campus residential halls located on the Hill. Our residential locations will be opened based on University need, capacity, and location configurations. We are adhering to county, state, and university requirements for providing meals on campus, even as these stipulations continue to evolve — while providing a variety of to-go healthy and delicious meals prepared in a safe environment. Please check back for further updates as we plan for fall dining operations, based on recommendations from the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health. Happenings Bruin Plate A creative, honest and responsible eatery that provides seasonal, innovative and sustainable cuisine with mouth-watering results. Epicuria at Covel Newly renovated restaurant and the exciting menu. Epicuria at Ackerman Dining moves across campus with Epicuria in its new location. Quick Links Kosher & Halal Meals Gluten-Free Pantry Meal Plans Meal Prices Vending Locations Café 1919 The quintessential destination for incredible vegan and vegetarian fare, modeled after a European café. Bruin Bowl A boutique restaurant with an exciting variety of healthy bowl options. The Drey A globally-inspired restaurant that serves fresh, natural, and healthy lunch and dinner options that are made with the best ingredients. Housing Services Office 360 De Neve Drive Los Angeles, CA 90095-1383 Mail Code: 138307 (310) 206-7011 uclahousing@housing.ucla.edu Please check here for current hours of operation. Department Phone Numbers © 2022 Regents of University of California Emergency Accessibility Privacy & Terms of Use Follow on Facebook Follow on Twitter Follow on Instagram Follow on Snapchat Follow on LinkedIn Follow on YouTube