Skip to content Clemson home Clemson home Housing Dining Clemson home Questions Contact Us Questions Contact Us Call Me MiSTER® The mission of the Call Me MiSTER® (acronym for Mentors Instructing Students Toward Effective Role Models) Initiative is to increase the pool of available teachers from a broader more diverse background particularly among the State’s lowest performing elementary schools. Student participants are largely selected from among under-served, socio-economically disadvantaged and educationally at-risk communities. Overview LLC Overview Did you Know Did You Know? Speech bubble Student Perspective Quick facts Quick Facts LLC Overview The Call Me MiSTER® program is contributing to the talent pool of excellent teachers by identifying and supporting students like Mr. Mark Joseph (shown here), who are touching the future by teaching children. Mark’s teaching degree was made possible through the Call Me MiSTER® program. The project provides: Tuition assistance through Loan Forgiveness programs for admitted students pursuing approved programs of study in teacher education at participating colleges. An academic support system to help assure their success. A cohort system for social and cultural support. Assistance with job placement. Participation in a variety of mentoring and tutoring programs at elementary schools middle schools, community centers, and colleges Social and academic support activities tailored to meet the needs of your specific cohort Mentoring and support form dedicated Call Me MiSTER program staff Did You Know? Call Me MiSTER was developed by some of our state’s visionary educational leaders who sincerely believe we can build a better tomorrow by getting you involved today As of the summer of 2013 Call Me MiSTER has resulted in a 40 percent increase in the number of African-American male teachers in South Carolina public elementary schools MiSTERs can connect with other MiSTERs from 14 other colleges in South Carolina and programs in six additional states: Florida, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Missouri and Georgia Student Perspective Clemson University can seem a like very big, intimidating place, so it was great having the older guys there to show me the ropes’ as a freshman. I’m not sure if I would have made it to this point without that support, and it is now my privilege to be able to do that for the current freshmen. Camden Johnson, Dalzell, S.C., Elementary Education major Quick Facts Size: 16 students Locations: Douthit West 4 person Apartments Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: elementary, early childhood and special education majors Application: Required, contact Winston Holton Fee: None required Overview LLC Overview Show Hide LLC Overview Participation in a variety of mentoring and tutoring programs at elementary schools middle schools, community centers, and colleges Social and academic support activities tailored to meet the needs of your specific cohort Mentoring and support form dedicated Call Me MiSTER program staff Did you know? Did You Know? Show Hide LLC Overview Call Me MiSTER was developed by some of our state’s visionary educational leaders who sincerely believe we can build a better tomorrow by getting you involved today As of the summer of 2013 Call Me MiSTER has resulted in a 40 percent increase in the number of African-American male teachers in South Carolina public elementary schools MiSTERs can connect with other MiSTERs from 14 other colleges in South Carolina and programs in six additional states: Florida, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Missouri and Georgia Speech bubble Student Perspective Show Hide LLC Overview Clemson University can seem a like very big, intimidating place, so it was great having the older guys there to show me the ropes’ as a freshman. I’m not sure if I would have made it to this point without that support, and it is now my privilege to be able to do that for the current freshmen. Camden Johnson, Dalzell, S.C., Elementary Education major Quick Facts Quick Facts Show Hide LLC Overview Size: 16 students Locations: Douthit West 4 person Apartments Roommate Policy: May only request other program participants Restrictions: elementary, early childhood and special education majors Application: Required, contact Winston Holton Fee: None required Contact Information Contact Information Winston Holton Field Coordinator for School of Education 203 Holtzendorff Hall 864-656-6333 wholton@clemson.edu Winston Holton Field Coordinator for School of Education 203 Holtzendorff Hall 864-656-6333 wholton@clemson.edu Return to previous Return Previous Community You Looked At Community listings View Community Listings If you experience any issues accessing online content, please let us know by contacting clemsonhome@clemson.edu or 864-656-2295. Clemson home 100 Mell Hall, Box 344075 Clemson, SC 29634-4075 Hours M-F, 8 am-4:30 pm Visit our Facebook Facebook Visit our Twitter Twitter Visit our Youtube channel Youtube Visit our Instagram Instagram Visit our Pinterest Pinterest Resources Expand or collapse Resources Laundry Parking Info Web Accessibility TigerOne Info Privacy Policy Sitemap Quick Links Expand or collapse quick links Quick Links Meet Our Staff Contact Us HSP Summer Camps & Conferences Housing & Dining Cancellations Phone 864-656-2295 Fax 864-656-7615 Email clemsonhome@clemson.edu Cookies & Privacy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Accept More information