retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs MENU Header Menu Apply for Housing My Housing Maintenance Request Contact Us Search Search Housing Residence Halls University Apartments 2400 Nueces Apartments Dobie Twenty21 Dining Dining Locations Meal Plans Menus Nutrition & Wellness Dining Services Conferences & Events Summer Conferences Meetings & Events Forty Acres Catering Programs & Services Bevo Pay UT Farm Stand Guest Townhomes Join Our Team Staff Positions Student Positions Current Staff Resources About Us Contact Us Meet Our Leadership Organizational Charts Commitment to Safety Breadcrumb Home Learning Galleries Learning Galleries University Housing and Dining sponsors several transformative environments for students to learn beyond the classroom. These beyond classroom settings stimulate learning through different life spaces. Students learn while passing by, socializing, studying, attending meetings and programs, dining and simply living in our facilities. Longhorn Art Series Art in the university's residence halls adds dimension, depth and character to the living environment. It encourages interaction, builds community among residents, and provides opportunities for lifelong learning and personal growth. The Gallery of Great Texas Women The Gallery of Great Texas Women is a University Housing and Dining learning environment located in Kinsolving Residence Hall. The gallery features photographs, biographical information and quotes representing the stories of Texas women who brought glory and fame to the state throughout its proud history. The Gallery of Texas Cultures The Gallery of Texas Cultures is a University Housing and Dining learning environment located in Jester West Residence Hall. The gallery recognizes, celebrates and affirms the historical and contemporary impact of 32 Texas cultural groups by examining how each culture contributed to politics, education, the arts and sciences. The Gallery of Texas Rivers The Gallery of Texas Rivers is a University Housing and Dining learning environment located throughout Duren Residence Hall. The gallery tells the stories of how Texas Rivers, which meander through 191,000 miles of varied landscape, have played a major role in the state's history. The Gallery of American Indians in Texas The Gallery of American Indians in Texas is a collaboration among indigenous communities, faculty, students and University Housing and Dining. Located on the second floor of Jester West Residence Hall, the gallery celebrates the impactful history and epic journey of the first peoples of Texas, as well as their contributions to our daily lives. The University of Texas at Austin University Housing and Dining 200 W Dean Keeton St Austin, TX 78712 Contact Us TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram FacebookFind us on Facebook YoutubeSee us on Youtube VimeoSee us on Vimeo Footer menu Housing Dining Conferences & Events Programs & Services Join Our Team About Us UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022