Skip to page content « » Connecting you to Texas A&M Log in with your NetID to get Started Log In Information Information About Applicant Access Information About Parent/Guardian Access Information About Former Student Access Certified Electronic Diploma [CeDiploma] Statement of Responsibility (Acceptable Use) It is a violation of university regulations, state laws, and federal laws if you gain or help others gain unauthorized access to the Howdy portal. If unauthorized access or use is gained, you will be subject to university disciplinary action and criminal prosecution, to the fullest extent of the law. By logging into Howdy, you are responsible for strictly adhering to university policy, state laws and federal laws governing computer security. Penalties exist for unauthorized access, unauthorized use, or unauthorized distribution of information from Howdy. Usage may be subject to security testing and monitoring. Applicable privacy laws establish the expectation of privacy. The university rule, Acceptable Use (29.01.03.M0.02), provides guidance for the appropriate use of Texas A&M University's information resources. Trouble logging in? Howdy is a web portal created for applicants and admitted students, current and former students, parents/guardians, faculty and staff of Texas A&M University campuses in College Station, Galveston and Qatar. For more information, see these FAQs. To log in to Howdy, you must have a NetID and password. You must also be using a recent version of a standard web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Firefox. If you are having trouble logging in, the following information might help you determine the problem. Texas A&M University Howdy FAQs Close What is Howdy? Who uses Howdy? What is the difference between Howdy and the main A&M website? What is the major benefit of Howdy? How do I log in to Howdy? I don't have, or have forgotten, my NetID and/or password. Where do I get this info? What information will applicants and recently-admitted students find in Howdy? What information will students find in Howdy? What information will faculty and advisors find in Howdy? What info will staff find in Howdy? What information will former students find in Howdy? How do parents/guardians use Howdy? Where do I find Compass in the Howdy web portal? Who decides what information is in Howdy? Who manages Howdy from a technical standpoint? Can I customize Howdy? My question wasn't answered here. Where can I get information? Texas A&M Textbook Registration Integration (College Station only) What is Howdy? Howdy is a secure web portal that connects Texas A&M University students, applicants, parents/guardians, faculty and staff to their personal A&M information and other important internal and external A&M links. back to top Who uses Howdy? Howdy is available to Texas A&M University students, applicants, parents/guardians, faculty, staff and former students at the university's campuses in College Station, Galveston, and Qatar. back to top What is the difference between Howdy and the main A&M website? The main A&M website at https://www.tamu.edu is considered an "external" site, available to the A&M community as well as the general public. Although Howdy includes links to helpful information found on the main A&M site, its primary purpose is more "internal," to provide access to your personal A&M information. Therefore, it is a secure site requiring you to log in. back to top What is the major benefit of Howdy? Howdy is a "one stop shop." It eliminates the need for you to log in to multiple websites to access various types of your personal A&M info. After logging in just once to Howdy, you automatically have access to info that previously required separate logins. back to top How do I log in to Howdy? Use your campus NetID and password. back to top I don't have, or have forgotten, my NetID and/or password. Where do I get this info? To get and activate a NetID, identify a forgotten NetID, or change a forgotten password, see "Trouble logging in?" on the Howdy login page. Or, contact Help Desk Central 979-845-8300 or helpdesk@tamu.edu. back to top What information will applicants and recently-admitted students find in Howdy? Applicants and recently-admitted students will find links in Howdy to the Applicant Information System (AIS), which enables them to track the status of their applications. Howdy also provides links to admissions deadlines and information about the status of a student's financial aid, as well as information on housing and new student conferences. back to top What information will students find in Howdy? Students will find information in Howdy such as course registration and add/drop courses, grades, transcripts, and degree evaluations. Students also will find information about the status of their financial aid and Flywire information, as well as links to libraries, parking and Texas A&M University Email (Neo). Students can also find course assignments in Howdy through links to eLearning (which includes Blackboard Vista, formerly called WebCT). Student employees will find links to their employee information, such as Single Sign On (SSO), which includes HR Connect, benefits details and more. back to top What information will faculty and advisors find in Howdy? Faculty will have access to their class rosters, including student information, and the schedule of classes in Howdy. Depending on user privileges, faculty members also have access to information currently found in eLearning (also known as WebCT or Blackboard Vista), as well as libraries, parking and TAMU Email (Neo). Advisors will have access to student information, including student schedules, be able to view student holds, unofficial transcripts and degree evaluations and perform graduation status checks. All A&M employees will find links to their employee information, such as Single Sign On (SSO), which includes HR Connect. Employees who have access to the Compass student information system will find a link to the system in Howdy. back to top What info will staff find in Howdy? Staff members will have access to information such as libraries, parking and TAMU Email (Neo). All A&M employees will find links to their employee information, such as Single Sign On (SSO), which includes HR Connect. Employees who have access to the Compass student information system will find a link to the system in Howdy. back to top What information will former students find in Howdy? Howdy will provide a place for former students to view unofficial transcripts and order official transcripts from the university online. Information on records and grades is also available. Also, if applicable, former students will be able to make payments for tuition and fees to the Flywire bill paying system. Former students who attended Texas A&M University in the fall semester of 1985 or later may use the services available through Howdy. If you attended prior to fall semester 1985, please call 979-845-1003 for information. If your NetID is still active, you may now login. Former students will be able to use their NetID for two years after their last term of enrollment. If you do not have an active NetID, please fill out the questionnaire on the Former Student Access link in the Login box on the home page of Howdy. back to top How do parents/guardians use Howdy? Your student must request access in the Parent/Guardian Access channel on the My Record or My Finances tab. Within the Financial Aid, Academic Record and Tax Form link, they will need to select at least one area from the following for you to have access: Scholarship information, grades, class schedule, request certification of enrollment or access to an online PDF copy of the IRS Form 1098T. Your student will receive verification of their request and be given instructions to ask you to check your email for a message providing you with a web site to visit, along with a “token” number to activate your account within two weeks of receiving the initial email message. You then will receive an email telling you to activate your NetID. Once this is complete, you should be able to access Howdy within 24 hours. For access to billing information, your student will log in to the Flywire bill payment system, a secure, authorized, third-party site, and add authorized users to their account. If you have more than one student at TAMU and want access to their information, a separate parent/guardian account is required for each student you have enrolled. Once a student is no longer enrolled at Texas A&M University, a parent's/guardian's Howdy account will be inactivated. If a student re-enrolls at Texas A&M University, the student may re-activate the parent/guardian Howdy accounts by following the aforementioned steps to authorize the parent/guardian access. Once parent/guardian Howdy access has been inactivated upon their student becoming a former student, parents/guardians may still contact the Texas A&M University Registrar's Office if they want to obtain information on their former student, providing the parent/guardian is able to demonstrate eligibility to receive this information in compliance with FERPA guidelines. back to top Where do I find Compass in the Howdy web portal? If you are a Texas A&M University employee and have a Compass account, log in to the Howdy web portal and click the "Employee" tab. If you have a Compass account, you will see a channel titled Compass that includes a link to the system. Additionally you will see an icon named "Compass" on the top right of your screen at all times. Clicking on the icon or the link will take you to Compass. back to top Who decides what information is in Howdy? A portal implementation committee comprised of students, faculty, staff and administrators representing user groups and departments managing content for Howdy. During the planning stage, the committee and project developers hosted focus groups among a wide array of campus constituents, met with campus organizations and departments, and gathered feedback to determine the content in Howdy. Content managers continue to update info in Howdy. back to top Who manages Howdy from a technical standpoint? The Enterprise Information Systems (EIS) staff works with many campus constituents on an ongoing basis to manage and maintain Howdy. For more info on EIS, see http://eis.tamu.edu. For more info about Howdy, send an email to howdy@tamu.edu . back to top Can I customize Howdy? You can customize Howdy in a variety of ways to reflect your personal preferences. Options include adding, moving or deleting certain tabs, channels and columns. You can also add links to websites you frequently visit or minimize channels you don't frequently view. back to top My question wasn't answered here. Where can I get information? Please email howdy@tamu.edu with further questions. back to top Close Parent/Guardian Forgot your Token? Please refer to your Howdy account activation email. Forgot your password? If you forgot your password and have set up Self-Service Password Reset, visit https://services.tamu.edu/password-reset/ to reset your password. Detailed Instruction is here If you forgot your NetID password and haven't set up your password security questions, first visit an Open Access Lab or Help Desk Central, or call 979.845.8300, to have your account marked. After your account has been marked, if you are a student, applicant, employee or faculty member, set your new password at Reset Forgotten Password. Parents/Guardians If you are a parent/guardian, set your new password at Reset Forgotten Password after your account is marked as explained above. Web Browser Problems? Howdy requires that javascript be enabled on your browser. Other Problems? For any other problems logging in to Howdy, contact Help Desk Central at 979.845.8300 or helpdesk@tamu.edu. Former Students not enrolled in the Past TWO Years Forgot your UIN? Please refer to your account activation email. Forgot your NetID? Former students that have requested Howdy accounts through the questionnaire process should use their UIN as their NetID. Forgot your NetID password? At present we do not have a system to recover your password, however you can fill out the Former Student Questionnaire to reactivate your UIN. Web Browser Problems? Howdy requires that javascript be enabled on your browser. Other Problems? For any other problems logging in to Howdy, contact Help Desk Central at 979.845.8300 or helpdesk@tamu.edu. All Others Need a NetID? First, locate your UIN. Applicants, recently-admitted students and new employees can activate their NetID by clicking "Activate your account" on the Howdy home page. Questions regarding an application for admission should be directed to admissions@tamu.edu. Forgot your UIN? Applicants and recently-admitted students should contact the Office of Admissions at 979.845.1060. Current students can locate their UIN on their student ID card Employees can locate their UIN on their employee ID card, by contacting their departmental Human Resources representative or by contacting Employee Services. Forgot your NetID? Applicants and recently-admitted students should contact Help Desk Central at 979.845.8300 or helpdesk@tamu.edu for NetID-related questions only. Questions regarding an application for admission should be directed to admissions@tamu.edu. Students and employees can look themselves up on the TAMU Directory to find their @tamu.edu email address. A NetID is comprised of the prefix of that email address. Or, they can contact Help Desk Central at 979.845.8300 or helpdesk@tamu.edu. Forgot your NetID password? If you forgot your password and have set up Self-Service Password Reset, visit https://services.tamu.edu/password-reset/ to reset your password. If you forgot your NetID password and haven't set up your password security questions, first visit an Open Access Lab or Help Desk Central, or call 979.845.8300, to have your account marked. After your account has been marked, if you are a student, applicant, employee or faculty member, set your new password at Reset Forgotten Password. Web Browser Problems? Howdy requires that javascript be enabled on your browser. Other Problems? For any other problems logging in to Howdy, contact Help Desk Central at 979.845.8300 or helpdesk@tamu.edu. Forgot your password If you forgot your password and have set up Self-Service Password Reset, visit https://services.tamu.edu/password-reset/ to reset your password. If you forgot your NetID password and haven't set up your password security questions, first visit an Open Access Lab or Help Desk Central, or call 979.845.8300, to have your account marked. After your account has been marked, if you are a student, applicant, employee or faculty member, set your new password at Reset Forgotten Password. Parents/Guardians If you are a parent/guardian, set your new password at Reset Forgotten Password after your account is marked as explained above. Former Students Former Student NOT enrolled in the PAST TWO YEARS: At present we do not have a system to recover your password, however you can fill out the Former Student Questionnaire to reactivate your UIN. If you are a Former Student who WAS enrolled in the past TWO YEARS: Your Howdy account is still active. You will need to log in using your NetID and password. YOU DO NOT NEED TO CREATE A SEPARATE FORMER STUDENT ACCOUNT. If you forgot your NetID/password or it is expired, visit here for help. Activate your account Change your password Bill Pay Suite for Parents/Guardians Applicants may access the Howdy Portal after activating their NetID. If you have not activated a NetID or wish to learn more about the application process, please select a campus below for further instructions. Texas A&M College Station Already applied? Once you apply, you will receive an email with instructions to activate your NetID. Once you activate your NetID, you can log in to Howdy. If you activated your NetID and cannot log in to Howdy, please call Help Desk Central at 979.845.8300. Want to apply? For more information on applying to Texas A&M University, visit https://www.tamu.edu/admissions/index.html. Texas A&M Galveston Already applied? Once you apply, you will receive an email with instructions to activate your NetID. Once you activate your NetID, you can log in to Howdy. If you activated your NetID and cannot log in to Howdy, please call Help Desk Central at 979.845.8300. Want to apply? For more information on applying to Texas A&M University, visit https://applicanttamug.tamu.edu. Texas A&M Qatar Already applied? Once you apply and submit your passport copy, you can check your application status by going to step 3 at https://compass-ssb.tamu.edu:4501/pls/PROD/bwskalog.P_DispLoginNon Want to apply? You can apply at http://www.qatar.tamu.edu/apply For more information on applying to Texas A&M University at Qatar, visit http://www.exploretamuq.com Texas A&M School of Law Already admitted? Once you are admitted, you will receive an email with instructions to activate your NetID. Once you activate your NetID, you can log in to Howdy. If you activated your NetID and cannot log in to Howdy, please call Help Desk Central at 979.845.8300. Want to apply? For more information on applying to Texas A&M University School of Law, visit http://law.tamu.edu/ProspectiveStudents/Admissions.aspx. Students - expand the Student Section below to learn how to give your parent/guardian access to some of your university financial and academic information. Parent/Guardian - expand the Parent/Guardian Section below to learn what steps you need to perform after your student requests your access. Student You can set up Parent/Guardian Access to your billing account, academic records, financial aid, tax forms and other information. Parents/Guardians should never log in with their student's NetID because accounts are locked when suspicious activity, such as concurrent logins from two locations, is detected. If authorized, your parents/guardians will have two accounts with two unique usernames and passwords: Bill Payment Suite-https://tamu.myonplanu.com/login allows parents/guardians to view billing history and make payments on your behalf. Howdy-http://howdy.tamu.edu allows parents/guardians to access your academic records, tax forms, financial aid and other services. Setting up Parent/Guardian Access to Billing - Bill Payment Suite -https://tamu.myonplanu.com/cas Once you authorize parent/guardian access to billing, your parent/guardian will receive an email with instructions to activate their Bill Payment Suite account. Parents/Guardians will visit https://tamu.myonplanu.com/login (not Howdy) to view billing history or make payments on your behalf. To set up parent/guardian access to billing, visit the "My Finances" tab in Howdy and follow the instructions in the "Parent/Guardian Access" channel. For detailed instructions on setting up parent/guardian access to student billing, visit Help Desk Central's Parent/Guardian Access instructions. Setting up Parent/Guardian Access to Academic Records, Financial Aid, Tax Forms and Other Services - Howdy -http://howdy.tamu.edu Once you authorize parent/guardian access to your academic records, financial aid, tax forms or other services, your parent/guardian will receive an email with instructions to set up their own NetID and password. Parents/Guardians will log in to Howdy with their NetID to access the information you allowed. To set up parent/guardian access to any of the items listed above, visit the "My Record" tab in Howdy and follow the instructions in the "Parent/Guardian Access" channel. For detailed instructions on setting up parent/guardian access to Howdy, visit Help Desk Central's parent/guardian access instructions. You can edit your parent/guardian access preferences at any time. If you need help setting up parent/guardian access, please contact Help Desk Central at 979.845.8300 or at helpdesk@tamu.edu. Bill Payment Suite for Authorized Parents/Guardians If your student has already granted you access to the Bill Payment suite, you may log in here. Bill Pay Suite for Authorized Parents/Guardians Parent/Guardian Before parents/guardians can access their student's information online, their student must set up Parent/Guardian Access in the Howdy web portal. Parents/Guardians should never log in with their student's NetID and password. Student accounts are locked when suspicious activity, such as concurrent logins from two locations, is detected. Students can set up parent/guardian access to their billing account, academic records, financial aid, tax forms and other services. Parents/Guardians will use two accounts with two different usernames and passwords to access student information: Bill Payment Suite-https://tamu.myonplanu.com/login allows parents/guardians to view billing history and make payments on your behalf. Howdy-http://howdy.tamu.edu allows parents/guardians to access your academic records, tax forms, financial aid and other services. Parent/Guardian Access to Billing - Bill Payment Suite -https://tamu.myonplanu.com/login Once a student grants parent/guardian access to billing, the parent/guardian will receive an email message with instructions to verify their account and create a password. Please note, the username is not the NetID used to log into Howdy but is instead the email address of the user. Parents/guardians will visit the bill payment suite https://tamu.myonplanu.com/login (not Howdy) to view their student’s billing history and make payments on their behalf. For detailed instructions on setting up parent/guardian access to student billing, visit the Student Business Services website page at https://billing.tamu.edu. Parent/Guardian Access to Academic Records and Other Services - Howdy Once a student grants parent/guardian access to records, financial aid, tax forms, or other services; the parent/guardian will receive an email with instructions to set up their own NetID and password. Parents/Guardians will log in to Howdy with their own NetID to access authorized information. Parents/Guardians are responsible for maintaining their Howdy access, which includes changing their password every six months. For detailed instructions on setting up parent/guardian access to Howdy, visit Help Desk Central's parent/guardian access instructions. If parents/guardians have issues accessing their student's accounts, please contact Help Desk Central at 979.845.8300 or at helpdesk@tamu.edu. Once a student is no longer enrolled at Texas A&M University, a parent/guardian's Howdy account is deactivated. If a student re-enrolls at Texas A&M, the student may re-authorize the parent/guardian by following the instructions on Help Desk Central's website. Parents/Guardians of former students may still contact the Texas A&M University Registrar's Office to obtain information on their former student. The parent/guardian must demonstrate eligibility to receive this information in accordance with FERPA regulations. Bill Payment Suite for Authorized Parents/Guardians If your student has already granted you access to the Bill Payment suite, you may log in here. Bill Pay Suite for Authorized Parents/Guardians Former students attending Texas A&M University in the fall semester of 1985 or later may use the Howdy web portal to access transcripts, order duplicate diplomas, pay on an active student loan, and more at http://howdy.tamu.edu. For instructions, choose your status below: WAS enrolled in the past TWO YEARS Your Howdy account is still active. You will need to log in using your NetID and password. YOU DO NOT NEED TO CREATE A SEPARATE FORMER STUDENT ACCOUNT. If you forget your NetID or it is expired, visit here for help. WAS NOT enrolled in the past TWO YEARS You can activate an account to access Howdy by following the steps below: Complete the Former Student Questionnaire to activate your UIN (University Identification Number) in order for the university to verify your identity. You will receive an email within minutes after submitting the above questionnaire that will contain your UIN. Within three hours of receiving the email message from the university, follow the instructions provided to activate your account. If you have not received an email within the three hours, please contact us at howdy@tamu.edu from the email address to which you expect the activation email to be sent. When you receive your UIN, you will also be directed to a web site to begin the activation procedure and create a password. Your UIN will act as your NetID username for logging into Howdy. If you do not respond to the email from the university within three hours, you will need to start the process over by again completing the questionnaire and following the steps above. If you receive an error while completing the Questionnaire or do not remember the answer to any of the questions, please complete the Records Request Form and select the Former Student Questionnaire option. Once you gain access to Howdy, your account will remain active for six months. After that time, you will need to follow the steps above to reactivate your account. If you forget your password, you will need to follow the steps above to re-create your account. If you are a Former Student who has an active student loan with the university, your Howdy account will remain active until the loan is paid in full. Attended prior to the fall semester 1985 For information regarding ordering a transcript, please visit the Registrar's Office Transcript Information web page. For general information regarding former student academic records, please visit the Office of the Registrar's Former Student web page or call 979-845-1031. If you have further questions, please visit this page, FAQ: Former Student Login Issues to the Howdy Portal Related Pages CeDiploma Features Learn more about the security features of a CeDiploma Credential Validation Validate the authenticity of a CeDiploma CeCredential Frequently Asked Questions View commonly asked questions about the CeDiploma Certified Electronic Credential Overview Texas A&M University now offers Certified Electronic Diplomas (CeDiploma)! Download now by logging into Howdy and navigating to the CeDiploma SSO portlet on either the Former Student or My Record tabs. Watch an Overview video to learn more! Key Benefits More than a paper credential An official, secure and verifiable PDF version of your accomplishment! Different from a transcript Unlimited sharing with family, friends, employers and social media. Proof of education with only the important details. Simple for employers to read and understand. Better than an eDiploma Each credential provides a unique 12-digit CeDiD*. The CeDiD allows for instant proof of your accomplishment using Validation Services. Enhances your resume Expedite the verification process by providing your CeDiD and validation URL on your resume. *CeDiD (Certified Electronic Document Identifier) Credential Validation – demo Your browser does not support the video tag. Highly Secure: Each CeDiploma can be independently validated here by future employers, State Government Licensing Agencies and any other entity that wishes to validate your achievement. The document is digitally signed and encrypted, providing greater trust and acceptance. For security reasons, the electronic credential cannot be printed. Note: A credential may not be available for all conferral dates. For additional information about the Certified Electronic Credential and its features, please visit cecredentialtrust.com © 2018 ✦ CeCredential Trust®, CeDiploma®, CeCertificate® and CeDiD® are registered trademarks ✦ CeCredential™ and TruSeal™ are trademarks Validation Services is patent pending Don't forget... For security reasons, please log out and close your web browser when you have completed accessing Howdy. Texas A&M University at College Station - Texas A&M University at Galveston - Texas A&M University at Qatar - Contact Us - Employment - State of Texas - Texas Homeland Security - Statewide Search - Open Records/Public Information - State Link Policy - Texas A&M University System - Legal Notices - Accessibility Last updated on: 2022-05-20:15:25:12-4a93ae49 01 ×Close Configuration This portlet cannot be moved here. The portlet underneath is locked.