Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Benefits, Pay & Perks / Health Plans / Contract College Plans In this Section: Drug Coverage Dental ID Cards Important Phone Numbers NYSHIP Premiums FAQ Access NYSHIP Online Contract College Health Plans General Information Eligible faculty and staff in the Contract College benefits program can enroll themselves and their families in the New York State Health Insurance Program (NYSHIP). New York State pays most of the cost of your coverage. Your portion of the premium depends on whether you elect individual or family coverage. You may choose from two options: The Empire Plan or a Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) in your geographic area that has been approved for participation in NYSHIP. See below for more details. Need to change your benefits due to a life event? Important Phone Numbers ID Cards 2022 Choices Booklet 2022 Contract College Health Rates (pdf) 2022 Contract College Health Comparison Chart (pdf) New York State Dental/Health Insurance (NYSHIP) Summary of Benefits and Coverage Domestic Partner FAQ – Contract College Summary Chart of Domestic Partner Benefits - Contract College Empire Plan The Empire plan provides hospital and related expense coverage through Empire Blue Cross for medically necessary elective, emergency or urgent care as long as your stay has been precertified. Medical/surgical benefits are provided through United HealthCare, administrator for Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, for a copayment, paid directly to the provider, when you choose a participating provider. If you obtain services from a non-participating provider, you must pay the provider directly and then be reimbursed by United HealthCare for covered services, subject to a deductible and applicable coinsurance. The Empire Plan Mental Health and Substance Abuse Program, administered by Beacon Health Options, provides coverage for medically necessary inpatient and outpatient care through a network of participating providers; medically necessary non-network services are also covered. To ensure you receive the highest level of benefits, you should call Beacon Health Options at (877)-769-7447, option #3, before you seek mental health or substance abuse care, including treatment for alcoholism, even when a doctor refers you to the facility. Guaranteed access to network level of benefits is available if arranged through Beacon Health Options. CVS Caremark administers prescription drug benefits. Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) An HMO provides health care services under the supervision of a primary care physician. In addition to the premium, there may be plan copayments. This option is available to you if you live or work within the HMO’s geographic service area. You are eligible for enrollment in HMO Blue CNY if you live or work in any of the following counties: Broome, Cayuga, Chemung, Cortland, Onondaga, Oswego, Schuyler, Steuben, Tioga, Tompkins. Other HMO options are available for employees in other areas of the state and MVP if you live or work in any of the following counties: Broome, Cayuga, Chenango, Cortland, Delaware, Herkimer, Jefferson, Lewis, Madison, Oneida, Onondaga, Otsego, Oswego, Tompkins and Tioga counties. When you join an HMO, you agree to receive care from doctors and hospitals associated with the HMO. All primary care must be performed by or referred by your primary care physician. Forms & Resources Empire Plan Empire Plan Claim Form (pdf) NYSHIP NYSHIP Release of Protected Health Information Form (pdf) NYSHIP COBRA Request (pdf) MyNYSHIP (employee self-service application) NYSHIP Privacy Notice (pdf) NYSHIP Young Adult Children Age 29 Coverage Option, also see: Rates (refer to Option A) NYSHIP Salary-based premium schedule FAQ 2022 2022 Empire Plan Benefit Summary Beacon Health Beacon Health Release of Protected Heath Information(pdf) Beacon Health Release Member Info Sheet (pdf) Beacon Health Claim Form (pdf) Weill Cornell Medicine Weill Cornell Referral Center brochure (pdf) Transaction Forms (PS forms) PS-404 Health Insurance Transaction (pdf); PS-404 Instructions (pdf) PS-405 NYSHIP Sick Leave Credit Option Election Form (pdf) PS-406.2 NYSHIP Health Insurance Deferral Election Form (pdf) PS-410 NYSHIP Sick Leave Credit Preservation Form (pdf) PS-425 Domestic Partner Enrollment (pdf) PS-425.4 Termination of Domestic Partner (pdf) PS-451 NYSHIP Statement of Disability for Dependents (pdf) PS-457 (Statement of Dependence) (pdf) Contract College Supporting Documentation (required) (pdf) Affordable Care Act, Form 1095-C Note: Foreign documentation accepted if translated by the employee (i.e. marriage certification, birth certificate, divorce decree and death notice). Enrollment/Termination You must enroll within the first 56 days of your employment or date of benefits eligibility, with coverage beginning on the 57 day. If coverage is requested after 56 days, a 10-week waiting period will apply and the health insurance premiums will be deducted from your pay on an after-tax basis for the remainder of the calendar year. If you have a Qualifying Event (i.e. birth of a child, adoption or placement of adoption, marriage, or adding a dependent due to their loss coverage) during the time your premiums are being deducted after tax, you will be permitted to change your health insurance premiums to before-tax provided you complete the enrollment change within 30 days. The New York State Department of Civil Service requires two advance premiums for health insurance to provide you with 28 days of coverage following termination. These advance premiums will be a double deduction of one current payroll premium and one advance premium. Enrollment for Children up to Age 26 As required by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), effective January 1, 2011, the eligibility rules for covering dependents under NYSHIP will change to allow employees’ children to continue coverage as eligible dependents up to age 26. Please Note: The extension of coverage to age 26 does not apply to EmblemHealth (formerly GHI) coverage, which is exempt from the ACA. Eligible employees may enroll in a NYSHIP plan or add eligible dependents up to age 26 at any time, but may be subject to a 10 week waiting period before their insurance is effective. An employee's natural, legally adopted, step and/or domestic partner child is eligible for this coverage regardless of financial dependency, residency, student status, employment and/or marital status. The extension of coverage to age 26 applies also to "other" eligible dependent children upon submission of an approved PS-457 Statement of Dependence and supporting documentation. Properly enrolled dependent children will be eligible for coverage under NYSHIP through the end of the month in which they reach age 26. To Enroll Complete the PS-404 Health Insurance Transaction Form (pdf). Enrollee Information section (boxes 1-8); sections F & G Enrollee must sign and date form (back page) Submit the PS-404 form along with photocopies (no original documents) of the dependent's birth certificate and social security card to HR Services & Transitions Center, East Hill Office Building, Suite 110, 395 Pine Tree Road or fax to (607) 255-6873. Additional Information For more information and for the downloadable forms that will be needed, your employees should access the NYSHIP website. Eligibility Not all persons affiliated with the university qualify for enrollment in these benefit programs. A faculty or staff member must hold a job or appointment with a minimum of 20 hours per week for hourly paid employees or the equivalent 50% effort for salaried employees for a period of 3 months or more. The rate of pay must be greater than zero and the appointment does not need to be indefinite. A person appointed to a courtesy position without pay may be eligible for endowed health and dental if the appointment is 50% time or more for a period of 6 months or more and the person is required to have health coverage due to immigration visa considerations. For answers to your specific questions about eligibility, please contact the HR Services and Transitions Center by phone (607) 255-3936 or send us a message hrservices@cornell.edu Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.