Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Home Our Community DEI Celebration Resources DEI Celebration Resources In the United States, there are a number of celebrations held each month to acknowledge various historic events and figures from ethnic and marginalized groups. These celebrations serve as an opportunity to educate others on the contributions of various individuals and communities to U.S. History. At Cornell, we've created this page to recognize some of the events that are celebrated with resources and information on how to celebrate each month. Expand All January: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day History Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a federal holiday that takes place on the third Monday of each January. This day was established in honor of Baptist minister and social justice activist Dr. Marin Luther King Jr. who was assassinated in 1968. King was the first modern private citizen to be honored with a federal holiday and his legacy continues to inspire millions of people around the world. Resources Teaching Tolerance, The Best of Our Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Resources AmeriCorps, MLK Day of Service Events and Activities Time, A Brief History of Martin Luther King Jr. Day Boston University, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day Weekend Reading List for Older Children, Younger Children, and Adults Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. February: Black History Month History Black History Month is an annual celebration of achievements by African Americans and a time for recognizing their central role in U.S. history. Also known as African American History Month, the event grew out of “Negro History Week,” the brainchild of noted historian Carter G. Woodson and other prominent African Americans. Since 1976, every U.S. president has officially designated the month of February as Black History Month. Other countries around the world, including Canada and the United Kingdom, also devote a month to celebrating Black history. Since 1976, every American president has designated February as Black History Month and endorsed a specific theme. The Black History Month 2022 theme, Black Health and Wellness, "acknowledges the legacy of not only Black scholars and medical practitioners in Western medicine, but also other ways of knowing (e.g., birthworkers, doulas, midwives, naturopaths, herbalists, etc.) throughout the African Diaspora. The 2022 theme considers activities, rituals and initiatives that Black communities have done to be well." (from the Association for the Study of African American Life and History). [Source: History.com] Cornell Resources Black History Month Archives from Cornell University Press Inclusive Excellence Podcast, Blackness at Cornell special series Black History Month Spotlight from the Cornell's Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX Recorded Seminar- Cornell and Black History: Highlights from Cornell University Library's Rare and Distinctive Collections Black History Month from The History Center in Tompkins County Additional Resources African American History Month Resources from the Library of Congress Blackpast.org, a reference center dedicated to providing information to the general public on African American history and the history of more than one billion people of African ancestry around the world Gallup Center on Black Voices, Gallup's independent research that reveals the trends and insights on the experiences of Black Americans. NPR, Celebrate Black History Month at Tiny Desk Teaching Tolerance, Black History Month- Go beyond trauma and struggle to examine the liberation, civic engagement, creativity and intersecting identities of Black people during Black History Month The New York Times, Honor and Learn This Black History Month Zoom Background* Right click on the image above or below to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. The image below includes the following individuals starting from left to right, top row: Toni Morrison, President Barack Obama, Madam C.J. Walker, Malcom X, Harriet Tubman, James Baldwin, Ida B. Wells, Muhammad Ali, and Nina Simone. Left to right, bottom row: Representative John Lewis, Beyoncé, Spike Lee, Oprah Winfrey, Frederick Douglass, Shirley Chisholm, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr, Maya Angelou, and Nelson Mandela. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. March: Women's History Month History Women’s History Month had its origins as a national celebration in 1981 when Congress passed Pub. L. 97-28 which authorized and requested the President to proclaim the week beginning March 7, 1982 as “Women’s History Week.” Throughout the next five years, Congress continued to pass joint resolutions designating a week in March as “Women’s History Week.” In 1987 after being petitioned by the National Women’s History Project, Congress passed Pub. L. 100-9 which designated the month of March 1987 as “Women’s History Month.” Between 1988 and 1994, Congress passed additional resolutions requesting and authorizing the President to proclaim March of each year as Women’s History Month. Since 1995, presidents have issued a series of annual proclamations designating the month of March as “Women’s History Month.” These proclamations celebrate the contributions women have made to the United States and recognize the specific achievements women have made over the course of American history in a variety of fields. [Source: Women's History Month.gov] Cornell Resources Women's History Month: Images from an immigrant woman's life in the early 1900s from Cornell University Press Celebrating Women's History Month with the College of Veterinary Medicine Learn more about the Women's Resource Center on the Ithaca campus Additional Resources Women's History Month: Recognizing Ithaca's Own by Ithaca Community The History Center in Tompkins County has a number of resources for Women's History Month Learn more about the Women's Rights National Park in Seneca Falls, New York A Proclamation on Women's History Month from The White House What to Watch: Women's History Month by PBS Black Women in History by PBS 6 Women with Disabilities Who Made History by sheknows 5 Powerful and Influential Native American Women by Biography 5 Native Women Leaders Who Made History by Teen Vogue 10 Inspiring Latinas Who've Made History by Google Arts and Culture 5 Influential African Women in History by Demand Africa Celebrating Asian American Women by National Women's History Museum 4 Asian American Women Who Changed History by Teen Vogue this women's history month, celebrate queer womxn who revolutionized nonviolence by GLAAD and Amp Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. March: César Chávez Day History César Chávez was born on March 31st 1927, in Yuma, Arizona. His family had moved to Northern California to work as migrant farm workers after losing their land in the great depression. He served in the US navy for two years at the end of the Second World War, returning to work on farms until 1952, when he became involved with the Community Service Organization, a Latino civil rights group, rising to become its national director by 1958. In 1962, Chávez became a cofounder of the National Farm Workers' Association (now the United Farm Workers). In this new role, he became the best known Latino American civil rights activist. Leading the struggle for better rights for farm workers, his aggressive but nonviolent tactics made the farm workers' struggle a moral cause with wide support. His also gained national awareness as he went on several hunger strikes to highlight his campaigns. Chávez died on April 23rd 1993 of unspecified natural causes, with some believing that his death may have been caused in part by his hunger strikes. César Chávez Day is always celebrated on his birthday, March 31st. President Barack Obama declared César Chávez Day a national holiday in 2014. It is not a federal holiday, but is a state holiday in California. It is either an optional or commemorative day in nine other states - Arizona, Colorado, Illinois, Michigan, New Mexico, Texas, Utah, Wisconsin and Rhode Island. California, Arizona, Colorado, Michigan, New Mexico, Texas, Utah and Wisconsin observe César Chávez Day by closing schools and state offices. [Source: Office Holidays.com] Cornell Resources The Cornell Farmworker Program seeks recognition for farmworkers' contributions to society and their acceptance and full participation in local communities. Aquí se puede encontrar el sitio web y recursos en Español. Program delivers masks, COVID-19 info to NY farmworkers by Cornell Chronicle Cornell support for NY farmworkers wins national recognition by Cornell Chronicle Resources Cesar Chavez: American Civil Rights Activist- Fast Facts by History Cesar Chavez- American Civil Rights Activist- Mini Bio by Biography Witness History, Cesar Chavez- Yes we can! by BBC Sounds Cesar Chavez: The Life Behind A Legacy Of Farm Labor Rights by NPR Finding Cesar Chavez--a transformational moment | Jose Calderon | TEDxClaremontColleges Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. April: Celebrate Diversity Month History April is Celebrate Diversity Month, started in 2004 to recognize and honor the diversity surrounding us all. By celebrating differences and similarities during this month, organizers hope that people will get a deeper understanding of each other. [Source: Diversity Best Practices] Resources How to Celebrate Diversity Month At Home During COVID-19 by CSRWire April is Diversity Month, Six Ways to Celebrate by LinkedIn Pulse 5 Ways to Celebrate Diverse Cultures in the Office by The Other Side of Sales The Inclusive Excellence Podcast by the Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity, in collaboration with the Cornell Broadcast Studio Upcoming Events April 26- May 1: 3rd Annual Celebrate Diversity Week hosted by Weill Cornell Medicine April 27 and April 28: The Inclusive Excellence Summit. Open to all Cornell staff and faculty. Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. May: Asian Pacific American Heritage Month History May is Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month – a celebration of Asians and Pacific Islanders in the United States. A rather broad term, Asian/Pacific encompasses all of the Asian continent and the Pacific islands of Melanesia (New Guinea, New Caledonia, Vanuatu, Fiji and the Solomon Islands), Micronesia (Marianas, Guam, Wake Island, Palau, Marshall Islands, Kiribati, Nauru and the Federated States of Micronesia) and Polynesia (New Zealand, Hawaiian Islands, Rotuma, Midway Islands, Samoa, American Samoa, Tonga, Tuvalu, Cook Islands, French Polynesia and Easter Island). Like most commemorative months, Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month originated with Congress. In 1977 Reps. Frank Horton of New York introduced House Joint Resolution 540 to proclaim the first ten days in May as Pacific/Asian American Heritage Week. In the same year, Senator Daniel Inouye introduced a similar resolution, Senate Joint Resolution 72. Neither of these resolutions passed, so in June 1978, Rep. Horton introduced House Joint Resolution 1007. This resolution proposed that the President should “proclaim a week, which is to include the seventh and tenth of the month, during the first ten days in May of 1979 as ‘Asian/Pacific American Heritage Week.’” This joint resolution was passed by the House and then the Senate and was signed by President Jimmy Carter on October 5, 1978 to become Public Law 95-419 (PDF, 158kb). This law amended the original language of the bill and directed the President to issue a proclamation for the “7 day period beginning on May 4, 1979 as ‘Asian/Pacific American Heritage Week.’” During the next decade, presidents passed annual proclamations for Asian/Pacific American Heritage Week until 1990 when Congress passed Public Law 101-283 (PDF, 166kb) which expanded the observance to a month for 1990. Then in 1992, Congress passed Public Law 102-450 (PDF, 285kb) which annually designated May as Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month. The month of May was chosen to commemorate the immigration of the first Japanese to the United States on May 7, 1843, and to mark the anniversary of the completion of the transcontinental railroad on May 10, 1869. The majority of the workers who laid the tracks were Chinese immigrants. [Source: asianpacificheritage.gov] Cornell Resources Asian & Asian American Center (A3C) Resources from Asian & Asian American Center (comprehensive list of resources across Cornell) Ithaca Asian Americans Associations Additional Resources Federal Asian Pacific American Council has a number of federal resources Smithsonian Asian Pacific American Center Podcast Lessons That Showcase Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) from sharemylesson 16 Asian American Heroes Our Kids Need to Know About Zoom Background* Right click on the image above or below to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. The image below includes the following individuals starting from left to right, top row: Tan France, Patsy Matsu Takemoto Mink, Tammy Duckworth, Philip Vera Cruz, Yuji Ichioka, Margaret Cho, Sammy Lee, Pryanka Chopra, Yo-Yo Ma Left to right, bottom row: Kalpana Chawla, Haing S. Ngor, I.M. Pei, Joyce Chen, Dalip Singh Saund, Jerry Yang, Dr. Chien-Shiung Wu, Duke Kahanamoku, Anna May Wong * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. June: LGBTQ+ Pride Month History Pride Month commemorates years of struggle for civil rights and the ongoing pursuit of equal justice under the law for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer community, as well as the accomplishments of LGBTQ individuals. But why is Pride Month celebrated in June? The organized pursuit of gay rights in the United States reaches back to at least 1924 and the founding of the Society of Human Rights in Chicago by Henry Gerber. But the event that catalyzed the gay rights movement came in June 1969 in New York City’s Greenwich Village, at the Stonewall Inn. In the early morning hours of June 28, police raided this popular gathering place for young gay men, lesbians, bisexuals, and transgender people—arresting the employees for selling liquor without a license, roughing up many of the patrons, and clearing the bar. Outside, the crowd that watched the bar’s patrons being herded into police vans became enraged. Whereas previous witnesses to police harassment of members of the LGBTQ community had stood by passively, this time the crowd jeered the police and threw coins and debris at them, forcing the police to barricade themselves in the bar to await backup. Meanwhile, some 400 people rioted. Although police reinforcements dispersed the crowd, riots waned and waxed outside the bar for the next five days, and these Stonewall riots (also called the Stonewall uprising) provided the spark that ignited the gay rights movement in the United States. [Source: Britannica.com] Cornell Resources Cornell's LGBT Resource Center Cornell's Inclusive Excellence Podcast, Beyond Binaries special series LGBTQ+ Colleague Network Group (CNG) for LGBTQ+ staff and faculty Resources for LGBTQ Staff and Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell for Cornell staff Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices for students, faculty, and staff Gender Inclusive Pronouns for students, faculty, and staff Cornell Transgender Guide to Transitioning & Gender Affirmation: Provides guidance for staff on updating personal information in university systems, on and off campus resources, as well as suggested steps for working with your supervisor and colleagues. Resources A Proclamation of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Pride Month, 2021 by The White House LGBTQ Travel in New York State by I Love NY A Guide To Gender Identity Terms by NPR 30 Different Pride Flags and What Each Represents by Marie Claire LGBTQ Pride Month Resources by the Library of Congress Pride: Explore the history of the LGBTQ movement in America by History.com Talking to Young Children about Pride Month (with lots of additional resources) by Children's Library Lady 9 Ways to Celebrate Pride Month With Your Kids by Mom.com LGBTQ Pride Month Guide for Educators by GLSEN Upcoming Events June 1- June 30: NYC Pride (A number of events throughout the month) June 1- June 30: Capital Pride in Albany, New York (A number of events throughout the month) June 1- June 30: Big Gay Hudson Valley (A number of events throughout the month) June 26: Central New York Pride "Virtual Edition" Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. June: Juneteenth History Juneteenth is the oldest nationally celebrated commemoration of the ending of slavery in the United States. Dating back to 1865, it was on June 19th that the Union soldiers, led by Major General Gordon Granger, landed at Galveston, Texas with news that the war had ended and that the enslaved were now free. Note that this was two and a half years after President Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation - which had become official January 1, 1863. The Emancipation Proclamation had little impact on the Texans due to the minimal number of Union troops to enforce the new Executive Order. However, with the surrender of General Lee in April of 1865, and the arrival of General Granger’s regiment, the forces were finally strong enough to influence and overcome the resistance. [Source: Juneteenth.com] Resources The Historical Legacy of Juneteenth by the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History & Culture The History and Meaning of Juneteenth by The Daily podcast from The New York Times Why all Americans should honor Juneteenth by Vox [YouTube Video] Honoring Juneteenth at Work from SHRM How to Celebrate Juneteenth by PureWow Upcoming Events June 18-20: Juneteenth 2021 in New York City June 19: Juneteenth 2021 in Albany, NY at the African American Cultural Center of the Capital District Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. June: Caribbean American Heritage Month History Caribbean immigrants have been contributing to the well-being of American society since its founding. Alexander Hamilton, the First Secretary of the Treasury was from the Caribbean island of Nevis. We count among our famous sons and daughters, Secretary of State Colin Powell, Cicely Tyson, W.E.B Dubois, James Weldon Johnson, Harry Belafonte and Sidney Poitier to name a few. [The Institute for Caribbean Studies, also known as ICS',] effort began in 1999 with a petition to President Bill Clinton for the recognition of a Caribbean American Heritage Month. In 2000, ICS began leading activities in celebration of June as Caribbean American Heritage Month in Washington DC, building on efforts started by a now defunct ad-hoc group of Washington DC residents to have a Caribbean Heritage Month designated in Washington DC in 1999. The official campaign for a National Caribbean American Heritage Month began in 2004 when a legislative bill was tabled in Congress by Congresswoman Barbara Lee. Language was provided by ICS Founder and President Dr. Claire Nelson. The Bill was reintroduced and passed the House in June 2005 and the Senate in February 2006. A Proclamation making the resolution official was signed by President George W. Bush on June 5, 2006. [Source: Institute of Caribbean Studies] Resources The Founder of Caribbean American Heritage Month [YouTube Video] Caribbean American Heritage Month by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) [YouTube Video] Caribbean American Heritage Month infographic by the U.S. Department of the Interior Zoom Background* Right click on the image above or below to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. The image below includes the following individuals starting from left to right, top row: Jean-Michel Basquiat, Sonia Sotomayor, Jada Pinkett Smith, Rita Moreno, Ricky Martin, Kwame Ture, Jennifer Lopez, Vice President Kamala Harris, Lin-Manuel Miranda. Left to right, bottom row: Rihanna, Marc Anthony, Audre Lorde, Shirly Chisholm, James Weldon Johnson, Marcus Garvey, Celia Cruz, Cicely Tyson, Harry Belafonte. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. July: Disability Independence Day History National Disability Independence Day commemorates the signing of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The ADA was signed into law on July 26, 1990, opening the door and breaking down barriers individuals with disabilities faced every day. This year the ADA celebrates its 31st anniversary. The ADA is a civil rights law, prohibiting discrimination against individuals with disabilities in all areas of public life, including jobs, schools, transportation and all public and private places that are open to the public. It provides individuals with disabilities with protections similar to those provided to individuals on the basis of race, color, sex, national origin, age, and religion. The day not only celebrates the anniversary of the ADA — it also serves several other purposes. First, the law broke down barriers individuals with disabilities faced every day. It also marked several changes that soon developed. Over time, common barriers such as narrow doors and small bathroom stalls became accessible to wheelchairs. Other examples include braille signs and crosswalks for the vision impaired. These changes improved mobility and safety. [Source: Central City Concern] Resources Listen to an episode or two of the Inclusive Excellence Podcast on this topic Learn more about the ADA on their official website ADA Anniversary featuring training videos and resources to celebrate this year's event 8 ways in which the Americans with Disabilities Act changed everyone's lives by the National Museum of American History Americans with Disabilities Act Spotlight at the Smithsonian Museum ‘Nothing About Us Without Us’: 16 Moments in the Fight for Disability Rights by the New York Times "After #OscarsSoWhite, Disability Waits for Its Moment" by The New York Times "'Disabled': Just #SayTheWord" by NPR List of 60 Books about Disability and Differences for kids features people of all differing physical abilities and neurodiverse children 25 Disability Awareness Activities For Kids Of All Ages by A Day In Our Shoes Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. August: Women's Equality Day History At the behest of Rep. Bella Abzug (D-NY), in 1971 and passed in 1973, the U.S. Congress designated August 26 as “Women’s Equality Day.” The date was selected to commemorate the 1920 certification of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, granting women the right to vote. This was the culmination of a massive, peaceful civil rights movement by women that had its formal beginnings in 1848 at the world’s first women’s rights convention, in Seneca Falls, New York. The observance of Women’s Equality Day not only commemorates the passage of the 19th Amendment, but also calls attention to women’s continuing efforts toward full equality. Workplaces, libraries, organizations, and public facilities now participate with Women’s Equality Day programs, displays, video showings, or other activities. [Source: National Women's History Alliance] Resources History of Women's Equality Day from the National Women's History Museum Why is August 26 known as Women’s Equality Day? from the National Constitution Center Women's Equality Day Resources from the National Women's History Alliance Women’s Equality Day Facts & Worksheets from kidskonnect Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. September: Hispanic Heritage Month History Each year, Americans observe National Hispanic Heritage Month from September 15 to October 15, by celebrating the histories, cultures and contributions of American citizens whose ancestors came from Spain, Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America. The observation started in 1968 as Hispanic Heritage Week under President Lyndon Johnson and was expanded by President Ronald Reagan in 1988 to cover a 30-day period starting on September 15 and ending on October 15. It was enacted into law on August 17, 1988, on the approval of Public Law 100-402. The day of September 15 is significant because it is the anniversary of independence for Latin American countries Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. In addition, Mexico and Chile celebrate their independence days on September 16 and September18, respectively. Also, Columbus Day or Día de la Raza, which is October 12, falls within this 30 day period. [Source: www.hispanicheritagemonth.gov] Resources Inclusive Excellence Podcast, Episode 54: Celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month & A Special Announcement Latino Living Center, a residential program house, provides students from many cultural backgrounds a safe and supportive environment where Latina/o cultures and worldviews are valued. Latino Living Center's Café con Leche series for students The National Hispanic Heritage Month website What's the difference between Hispanic and Latino? by Britannica 'Hispanic,' 'Latino,' Or 'Latinx'? Survey Says ... by NPR This Comic Breaks Down Latinx vs. Latine for Those Who Want to Be Gender-Inclusive by Remezcla Zoom Background* Right click on the image above or below to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. The image below includes the following individuals starting from left to right, top row: Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, Sylvia Rivera, Dolores Huerta, Julia Alvarez, Ellen Ochoa, Julián Castro, Gloria Estefan, Emilio Estefan, Juan Felipe Herrera Left to right, bottom row: Selena Quintanilla, Jaime Escalante, Marcario Garcia, Raúl Juliá, Sandra Cisneros, Pablo Alvarado, Jorge Ramos, Sylvia Mendez, Raffi Freedman-Gurspan * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. October: Disability Employment Awareness Month History In October, Americans observe National Disability Employment Awareness Month by paying tribute to the accomplishments of the men and women with disabilities whose work helps keep the nation’s economy strong and by reaffirming their commitment to ensure equal opportunity for all citizens. This effort to educate the public about the issues related to disability and employment began in 1945, when Congress enacted Public Law 176, declaring the first week of October each year as National Employ the Physically Handicapped Week. In 1962, the word “physically” was removed to acknowledge the employment needs and contributions of individuals with all types of disabilities. Some 25 years later, Congress expanded the week to a month and changed the name to National Disability Employment Awareness Month. [Source: Library of Congress] Resources Episode 36: "A Disabled Person is not Disabled..." on Ableism, Disability, and Intersectionality from Cornell University's Inclusive Excellence Podcast Disability Inclusion Glossary by Understood National Disability Employment Awareness Month 2021 by the Office of Disability Employment Policy EARN- Advancing Workforce Diversity What can YOU do? The Campaign for Disability Employment National Disability Employment Awareness Month from the American Bar Association Creating A More Accessible And Inclusive Workplace For People With Disabilities by Forbes How to Improve Your Organization’s Disability Inclusion Efforts by ELI, Inc. Hiring People with Disability from the U.S. Department of Labor Year-Round Employer Strategies for Advancing Disability Inclusion from the Office of Disability Employment Policy Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. October: LGBT History Month History LGBT History Month celebrates the achievements of 31 lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender Icons. Each day in October, a new LGBT Icon is featured with a video, bio, bibliography, downloadable images and other resources. In 1994, Rodney Wilson, a Missouri high school teacher, believed a month should be dedicated to the celebration and teaching of gay and lesbian history, and gathered other teachers and community leaders. They selected October because public schools are in session and existing traditions, such as Coming Out Day (October 11), occur that month. Gay and Lesbian History Month was endorsed by GLAAD, the Human Rights Campaign, the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, the National Education Association and other national organizations. In 2006 Equality Forum assumed responsibility for providing content, promotion and resources for LGBT History Month. [Source: LGBTHistoryMonth.com] Resources LGBT History Month Resources from Carnegie Mellon Libraries Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. Historical figures include (from left to right): Harvey Milk, Billie Jean King, James Baldwin, and Sylvia Rivera * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. November: Indigenous Heritage Month Image of a series of Haudenosaunee Sky Domes, which is a visual representation of Haudenosaunee cosmological map and an ecologically embedded relationship to this place. For more details: https://oneida-nsn.gov/our-ways/our-story/on%CA%8Cyote%CB%80a%C2%B7ka%C2%B7-symbolism/ and https://www.haudenosauneeconfederacy.com/symbols/ Top row, left to right: Joy Harjo, poet, Muscogee; Navarre Scott Momaday, novelist, Kiowa; Irene Bedard, actress, Inupiat/Cree (Metis); Gary Farmer, actor & musician, Cayuga; Charles Curtis, U.S. Vice President, Kaw; Susan La Flesche Picotte, physician, Omaha; Jason Mamoa, actor, Hawiian; Yalitza Aparicio, actress, Mixtec/Trique Bottom row, left to right: Zahn Tokiya-ku McClarnon, actor, Lakota; Maria Tallchief (Ki He Kah Stah Tsa), dancer, Osage; Dwayne Johnson, actor & wrestler, Samoan; We’wha, artist, Zuni; Tom Cole, U.S. Representative, Chickasaw; Sharice Davids, U.S. Representative, Ho-Chunk (Winnebago); Ely Parker (Donehogawa), U.S. Army officer, engineer, diplomat, Tonawanda Seneca; Deb Haaland, U.S. Secretary of the Interior, Pueblo of Laguna History: What started at the turn of the twentieth century as an effort to gain a single day of recognition for the significant contributions Indigenous people have made to the United States eventually resulted in a week, and then in a whole month, being designated for that purpose. Dr. Arthur C. Parker (Seneca on his father’s side), director of the Museum of Arts and Science in Rochester, New York, was one of the first proponents of what was then termed an “American Indian Day.” He persuaded the Boy Scouts of America to set aside a day honoring Indigenous people and they did so for three years. During the 1915 annual meeting of the Society for American Indians (SAI) in Lawrence, Kansas, the organization formally approved a plan for American Indian Day and directed its president, Reverend Sherman Coolidge (Arapahoe) to call upon the United States to observe it. Coolidge issued a proclamation on September 28, 1915, which called for the recognition of the second Saturday in May as American Indian Day. In a related effort, SAI member Red Fox James (Blackfoot) rode horseback from state to state seeking approval for a day to honor Indigenous people. On December 14, 1915, he presented the endorsements of twenty-four state governments to President Woodrow Wilson at the White House. There is no record, however, that a national day was proclaimed at this time. New York was the first to name a state American Indian Day in 1916, when it was declared to be the second Saturday in May. Several states continue to celebrate Native American Days at various times during the year. In Illinois, for example, legislators enacted such a day in 1919. Presently, several states and localities have designated Columbus Day as Indigenous Peoples’ Day, but this is not recognized as a national holiday. In 1976, Jerry C. Elliott-High Eagle (Cherokee/Osage) developed legislation proposing a week for celebration of Indigenous cultures and histories. President Gerald Ford designated the week of October 10-16, 1976, as Native American Awareness Week. Subsequent presidents renewed the week-long commitment. In 1990 President George H. W. Bush approved a joint resolution designating November 1990 “National American Indian Heritage Month.” Similar proclamations, under variants on the name (including “National American Indian and Alaska Native Heritage Month” and “Native American Heritage Month”) have been issued by the president each year since 1994. [adapted from: https://nativeamericanheritagemonth.gov/] Resources: https://www.haudenosauneeconfederacy.com/ American Indian and Indigenous Studies Speaker Series Cornell Land Acknowledgement Cornell University & Indigenous Dispossession Project More than a Word https://www.kanopy.com/product/more-word Native American and Indigenous Studies Association https://naisa.org/about/naisa-council/ https://www.firstnations.org/news/4-reasons-to-rethink-your-november/ Thousands of Bushels of Corn https://indigital.imaginenative.org/works/thousands-of-bushels-of-corn.html - glimpse into the local history https://www.un.org/development/desa/indigenouspeoples/declaration-on-the-rights-of-indigenous-peoples.html Zoom Background* Right click on the images above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. November: Veterans Day History Veterans Day originated as “Armistice Day” on Nov. 11, 1919, the first anniversary of the end of World War I. Congress passed a resolution in 1926 for an annual observance, and Nov. 11 became a national holiday beginning in 1938. Unlike Memorial Day, Veterans Day pays tribute to all American veterans—living or dead—but especially gives thanks to living veterans who served their country honorably during war or peacetime. Veterans Day occurs on November 11 every year in the United States in honor of the “eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month" of 1918 that signaled the end of World War I, known as Armistice Day. In 1954, President Dwight D. Eisenhower officially changed the name of the holiday from Armistice Day to Veterans Day. In 1968, the Uniform Holidays Bill was passed by Congress, which moved the celebration of Veterans Day to the fourth Monday in October. The law went into effect in 1971, but in 1975 President Gerald Ford returned Veterans Day to November 11, due to the important historical significance of the date. Veterans Day commemorates veterans of all wars. Great Britain, France, Australia and Canada also commemorate the veterans of World War I and World War II on or near November 11th: Canada has Remembrance Day, while Britain has Remembrance Sunday (the second Sunday of November). In Europe, Great Britain and the Commonwealth countries it is common to observe two minutes of silence at 11 a.m. every November 11. Every Veterans Day and Memorial Day, Arlington National Cemetery holds an annual memorial service. The cemetery is home to the graves of over 400,000 people, most of whom served in the military. [Source: History.com] Resources Episode 8: More of What's Going On? Veterans at Work from Cornell University's Inclusive Excellence Podcast Veterans Day from the Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs Activities for Veterans Day from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 5 Ways to Celebrate Your Veterans on Veterans Day by Military.com Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. December: Kwanzaa History Dr. Maulana Karenga, professor and chairman of Black Studies at California State University, Long Beach, created Kwanzaa in 1966. After the Watts riots in Los Angeles, Dr. Karenga searched for ways to bring African Americans together as a community. He founded US, a cultural organization, and started to research African “first fruit” (harvest) celebrations. Karenga combined aspects of several different harvest celebrations, such as those of the Ashanti and those of the Zulu, to form the basis of Kwanzaa. The name Kwanzaa is derived from the phrase “matunda ya kwanza” which means “first fruits” in Swahili. Each family celebrates Kwanzaa in its own way, but celebrations often include songs and dances, African drums, storytelling, poetry reading, and a large traditional meal. On each of the seven nights, the family gathers and a child lights one of the candles on the Kinara (candleholder), then one of the seven principles is discussed. The principles, called the Nguzo Saba (seven principles in Swahili) are values of African culture which contribute to building and reinforcing community among African-Americans. Kwanzaa also has seven basic symbols which represent values and concepts reflective of African culture. An African feast, called a Karamu, is held on December 31. The candle-lighting ceremony each evening provides the opportunity to gather and discuss the meaning of Kwanzaa. The first night, the black candle in the center is lit (and the principle of umoja/unity is discussed). One candle is lit each evening and the appropriate principle is discussed. [Source: History.com] The Seven Principles The seven principles, or Nguzo Saba are a set of ideals created by Dr. Maulana Karenga. Each day of Kwanzaa emphasizes a different principle. Unity:Umoja (oo–MO–jah) To strive for and maintain unity in the family, community, nation, and race. Self-determination: Kujichagulia (koo–gee–cha–goo–LEE–yah) To define ourselves, name ourselves, create for ourselves, and speak for ourselves. Collective Work and Responsibility: Ujima (oo–GEE–mah) To build and maintain our community together and make our brother’s and sister’s problems our problems and to solve them together. Cooperative Economics: Ujamaa (oo–JAH–mah) To build and maintain our own stores, shops, and other businesses and to profit from them together. Purpose: Nia (nee–YAH) To make our collective vocation the building and developing of our community in order to restore our people to their traditional greatness. Creativity: Kuumba (koo–OOM–bah) To do always as much as we can, in the way we can, in order to leave our community more beautiful and beneficial than we inherited it. Faith: Imani (ee–MAH–nee) To believe with all our heart in our people, our parents, our teachers, our leaders, and the righteousness and victory of our struggle. [Source: History.com] The Seven Symbols The seven principles, or Nguzo Saba are a set of ideals created by Dr. Maulana Karenga. Each day of Kwanzaa emphasizes a different principle. Mazao, the crops (fruits, nuts, and vegetables) Symbolizes work and the basis of the holiday. It represents the historical foundation for Kwanzaa, the gathering of the people that is patterned after African harvest festivals in which joy, sharing, unity, and thanksgiving are the fruits of collective planning and work. Since the family is the basic social and economic center of every civilization, the celebration bonded family members, reaffirming their commitment and responsibility to each other. In Africa the family may have included several generations of two or more nuclear families, as well as distant relatives. Ancient Africans didn’t care how large the family was, but there was only one leader – the oldest male of the strongest group. For this reason, an entire village may have been composed of one family. The family was a limb of a tribe that shared common customs, cultural traditions, and political unity and were supposedly descended from common ancestors. The tribe lived by traditions that provided continuity and identity. Tribal laws often determined the value system, laws, and customs encompassing birth, adolescence, marriage, parenthood, maturity, and death. Through personal sacrifice and hard work, the farmers sowed seeds that brought forth new plant life to feed the people and other animals of the earth. To demonstrate their mazao, celebrants of Kwanzaa place nuts, fruit, and vegetables, representing work, on the mkeka. Mkeka: Place Mat The mkeka, made from straw or cloth, comes directly from Africa and expresses history, culture, and tradition. It symbolizes the historical and traditional foundation for us to stand on and build our lives because today stands on our yesterdays, just as the other symbols stand on the mkeka. In 1965, James Baldwin wrote: “For history is not merely something to be read. And it does not refer merely, or even principally, to the past. On the contrary, the great force of history comes from the facts that we carry it within us, are consciously controlled by it in many ways, and history is literally present in all that we do. It could scarcely be otherwise, since it is to history that we owe our frames of reference, our identities, and our aspirations.” During Kwanzaa, we study, recall, and reflect on our history and the role we are to play as a legacy to the future. Ancient societies made mats from straw, the dried seams of grains, sowed and reaped collectively. The weavers took the stalks and created household baskets and mats. Today, we buy mkeka that are made from Kente cloth, African mud cloth, and other textiles from various areas of the African continent. The mishumaa saba, the vibunzi, the mazao, the zawadi, the kikombe cha umoja, and the kinara are placed directly on the mkeka. Vibunzi: Ear of Corn The stalk of corn represents fertility and symbolizes that through the reproduction of children, the future hopes of the family are brought to life. One ear is called vibunzi, and two or more ears are called mihindi. Each ear symbolizes a child in the family, and thus one ear is placed on the mkeka for each child in the family. If there are no children in the home, two ears are still set on the mkeka because each person is responsible for the children of the community. During Kwanzaa, we take the love and nurturance that was heaped on us as children and selflessly return it to all children, especially the helpless, homeless, loveless ones in our community. Thus, the Nigerian proverb “It takes a whole village to raise a child” is realized in this symbol (vibunzi), since raising a child in Africa was a community affair, involving the tribal village, as well as the family. Good habits of respect for self and others, discipline, positive thinking, expectations, compassion, empathy, charity, and self-direction are learned in childhood from parents, from peers, and from experiences. Children are essential to Kwanzaa, for they are the future, the seed bearers that will carry cultural values and practices into the next generation. For this reason, children were cared for communally and individually within a tribal village. The biological family was ultimately responsible for raising its own children, but every person in the village was responsible for the safety and welfare of all the children. Mishumaa Saba: The Seven Candles Candles are ceremonial objects with two primary purposes: to re-create symbolically the sun’s power and to provide light. The celebration of fire through candle burning is not limited to one particular group or country; it occurs everywhere. Mishumaa saba are the seven candles: three red, three green, and one black. The back candle symbolizes Umoja (unity), the basis of success, and is lit on December 26. The three green candles, representing Nia, Ujima, and Imani, are placed to the right of the Umoja candle, while the three red candles, representing Kujichagulia, Ujamaa, and Kuumba, are placed to the left of it. During Kwanzaa, on candle, representing one principle, is lit each day. Then the other candles are relit to give off more light and vision. The number of candles burning also indicate the principle that is being celebrated. The illuminating fire of the candles is a basic element of the universe, and every celebration and festival includes fire in some form. Fire’s mystique, like the sun, is irresistible and can destroy or create with its mesmerizing, frightening, mystifying power. Mishumaa saba’s symbolic colors are from the red, black, and green flag (bendara) created by Marcus Garvey. The colors also represent African gods. Red is the color of Shango, the Yoruba god of fire, thunder, and lightning, who lives in the clouds and sends down his thunderbolt whenever he is angry or offended. It also represents the struggle for self-determination and freedom by people of color. Black is the people, the earth, the source of life, representing hope, creativity, and faith and denoting messages and the opening and closing of doors. Green represents the earth that sustains our lives and provides hope, divination, employment, and the fruits of the harvest. Kinara: The Candleholder The kinara is the center of the Kwanzaa setting and represents the original stalk from which we came: our ancestry. The kinara can be shape – straight lines, semicircles, or spirals – as long as the seven candles are separate and distinct, like a candelabra. Kinaras are made from all kinds of materials, and many celebrants create their own from fallen branches, wood, or other natural materials. The kinara symbolizes the ancestors, who were once earth bound; understand the problems of human life; and are willing to protect their progeny from danger, evil, and mistakes. In African festivals the ancestors are remembered and honored. The mishumaa saba are placed in the kinara. Kikombe Cha Umoja: The Unity Cup The kikombe cha umoja is a special cup that is used to perform the libation (tambiko) ritual during the Karamu feast on the sixth day of Kwanzaa. In many African societies libation are poured for the living dead whose souls stay with the earth they tilled. The Ibo of Nigeria believe that to drink the last portion of a libation is to invite the wrath of the spirits and the ancestors; consequently, the last part of the libation belongs to the ancestors. During the Karamu feast, the kikombe cha umoja is passed to family member and guests, who drink from it to promote unity. Then, the eldest person present pours the libation (tambiko), usually water, juice, or wine, in the direction of the four winds – north, south, east, and west – to honor the ancestors. The eldest asks the gods and ancestors to share in the festivities and, in return, to bless all the people who are not at the gathering. After asking for this blessing, the elder pours the libation on the ground and the group says “Amen.” Large Kwanzaa gatherings may operate just as communion services in most churches, for which it is common for celebrants to have individual cups and to drink the libation together as a sign of unity. Several families may have a cup that is specifically for the ancestors, and everyone else has his or her own. The last few ounces of the libation are poured into the cup of the host or hostess, who sips it and then hands it to the oldest person in the group, who asks for the blessing. Zawadi: Gifts When we celebrate Imani on the seventh day of Kwanzaa, we give meaningful zawadi (gifts) to encourage growth, self-determination, achievement, and success. We exchange the gifts with members of our immediate family, especially the children, to promote or reward accomplishments and commitments kept, as well as with our guests. Handmade gifts are encouraged to promote self-determination, purpose, and creativity and to avoid the chaos of shopping and conspicuous consumption during the December holiday season. A family may spend the year making kinaras or may create cards, dolls, or mkekas to give to their guests. Accepting a gift implies a moral obligation to fulfill the promise of the gift; it obliges the recipient to follow the training of the host. The gift cements social relationships, allowing the receiver to share the duties and the rights of a family member. Accepting a gift makes the receiver part of the family and promotes Umoja. [Source: History.com] Zoom Background* Right click on the image above to save and add it as a background for your Zoom meetings! Need help? Click here to learn how to add this image as your Zoom background. * If your image appears backwards, be sure to uncheck "Mirror my video" at the bottom of your Backgrounds & Filters window within Settings. Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance