Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Our Workplace / Appreciation & Recognition / Awards / Excellence Awards In this Section: Nomination Tips FAQs Previous Award Winners Nominees 2021 President's Awards for Employee Excellence The Employee Excellence Awards were established in 2011 to recognize the achievements of staff who excel in their roles, both in skills and performance. The program was renamed the President's Awards for Employee Excellence in 2018, and updated with redefined categories and criteria to expand the pr0gram's scope to all staff and faculty in all roles, while highlighting the cultural elements that make working at Cornell so special. Trustee Awards are also presented to outstanding nominees from across the categories. Awardees will receive recognition points through Cornell's Employee Recognition portal, and all nominees are invited to a ceremony with President Pollack, Vice President Mary Opperman, and senior leaders from across campus. The Game Changer Award In a Nutshell: Recognizes an employee who developed, implemented, or tried a new approach, system, or idea. Keywords: Innovation, Creativity, Fresh Overview and Criteria Innovation and a bold, creative approach are vital to higher education – so it is imperative to recognize and reward innovation throughout the organization. This award has been created to recognize employees – whether they have been at Cornell for a few weeks or many years – who bring fresh ideas to their work, inspire a spirit of innovation, and take a bold approach to accomplishing their work. Nominees can work in any area on campus. They can be a colleague, a manager, an employee, someone you have worked with on a project or team – or even yourself. We want to show that innovation flourishes at Cornell! Your Game Changer nominee should possess these essential Skills for Success: COMMUNICATION: Shares knowledge and information. JUDGMENT: Demonstrates innovation, creativity, and informed risk-taking. GROWTH: Creates environments in which employees have the freedom, tools, or resources to challenge the status quo, push boundaries and achieve growth; uses mistakes as opportunities for learning. INITIATIVE: Seeks advancements in products, processes, services, technologies, or ideas. VISION: Finds innovative solutions; sees new possibilities; takes new ideas from concept to reality. We also encourage you to explore and incorporate one or more of Cornell’s Core Values into your nomination: Purposeful Discovery Free and Open Inquiry and Expression A Community of Belonging Exploration across Boundaries Changing Lives through Public Engagement Respect for the Natural Environment Nomination What we’re looking for: Here is your chance to tell us about an employee that has demonstrated, implemented, or tried a new approach, system, or idea in the last year. Consider the criteria above and use the Skills for Success to inform your response. We would also suggest including one or more Core Values to improve your submission. Examples: Perhaps the nominee works in IT support and inspired a bold approach to overhaul a work process in order to adapt to remote or hybrid working conditions, while accomplishing the necessary results. Or perhaps they provide front-line customer service in dining and had to respond efficiently and effectively to implement a significant change in working conditions. Maybe your nominee works in facilities, at the vet hospital, or in-patient care and demonstrated resiliency by continuing to respond with innovative solutions amidst a continuously changing environment. Group Nomination: If you know others who would like to nominate this individual, you may do so as a group by adding the additional nominators’ names and net IDs to the online nomination form. Additional information may be requested of these individuals as part of the review process. Self-Nomination: If you would like to nominate yourself for this award category, please provide the names and Net IDs of 2-3 individuals who can support your application. NOMINATION FORM The Mission-Possible Award In a Nutshell: Recognizes an employee whose work demonstrates excellence in supporting the university’s core mission of learning, discovery, engagement. This staff member will exemplify going above and beyond to complete a mission. Keywords: Impactful, Excellence, Learning-Discovery-Engagement Overview and Criteria The Mission-Possible award is presented to Cornell employees who have exhibited a positive and influential impact on their work environment, overcome an obstacle, or fostered cooperation and collaboration in their workgroup, while carrying out their responsibilities. Your Mission-Possible nominee should possess these essential Skills for Success: INTEGRITY: shows a strong work ethic and stays focused on what is important; takes on the tough challenges. GROWTH: produces results under challenging circumstances and changing environments; sets and achieves stretch goals for themselves. INITIATIVE: looks for opportunities to take initiative and/or exceed expectations; strives to do work more efficiently and effectively; volunteers and enthusiastically takes part in university events and programs. VISION: looks for opportunities to grow their skills and knowledge for the betterment of their team and the University; a positive team player in the department or work group. JUDGMENT: invested in the university’s success; an ambassador for the university as an employer. We also encourage you to explore and incorporate one or more of Cornell’s Core Values into your nomination: Purposeful Discovery Free and Open Inquiry and Expression A Community of Belonging Exploration across Boundaries Changing Lives through Public Engagement Respect for the Natural Environment Nomination: What we’re looking for: Please tell us about a staff member whose work demonstrates excellence in supporting the university’s core mission areas of learning, discovery, and engagement. Consider the criteria above and use the Skills for Success to inform your response. We would also suggest including one or more Core Values to improve your submission. Examples: Perhaps your nominee is a front-line worker and provided a consistent level of high performance, despite transitioning to new operation requirements or parameters. Maybe the nominee had to entirely reassess or re-implement a long-standing project in order to adapt to new or changing circumstances. Perhaps another nominee is a project manager that had to quickly assess emerging needs and completely redesigned and implemented a mission-critical program. Group Nomination: If you know others who would like to nominate this individual, you may do so as a group by adding additional nominators’ names and net IDs to the online nomination form. Additional information may be requested of these individuals as part of the review process. Self-Nomination: If you would like to nominate yourself for this award category, please provide the names and Net IDs of 2-3 individuals who can support your application. NOMINATION FORM The ONE Cornell Award In a Nutshell: Awarded to a team, department/section or group of employees that implements a project or solves a problem that positively impacts Cornell and the greater community. Keywords: Teamwork, Collaboration Overview and Criteria "We need to become One Cornell," – Hunter R. Rawlings III, Cornell President Emeritus Cornell’s mission to discover, preserve and disseminate knowledge depends on collaborative efforts. The Cornell community is constantly growing and challenging us to continue to improve means to effectively work across technologies, cultures, and boundaries. The collaboration can be within or across teams, departments, units, divisions, or campuses. The collaboration can be within or across teams, departments, units, divisions or campuses. Your ONE Cornell nominee should possess these essential Skills for Success: INTEGRITY: A positive, honest, and diplomatic when working across teams, departments, and cultures. INCLUSIVE: Creating a sense of belonging can be especially challenging in a truly diverse work group, and requires showing respect, openness, compassion, and empathy for others even in difficult situations. In addition, serving as an ally when others are being excluded. VISION: “One Cornell” means to effectively integrate the work of our campuses and programs in NYS, the US, and globally. Sharing this means embracing change, having long-term vision, and supporting bold ideas. COMMUNICATION: Nominees must have exceptional listening skills, the ability to clearly share their knowledge—both written and verbal, in a manner that is inclusive for all participants. We also encourage you to explore and incorporate one or more of Cornell’s Core Values into your nomination: Purposeful Discovery Free and Open Inquiry and Expression A Community of Belonging Exploration across Boundaries Changing Lives through Public Engagement Respect for the Natural Environment Nomination: What we’re looking for: please tell us about a team, department or group of employees that have implemented a project or solved a problem that positively impacts Cornell and the greater community. Consider the criteria above and use the Skills for Success to inform your response. We would also suggest including one or more Core Values to improve your submission.. Examples: Perhaps they responded to an urgent need on campus and quickly formed an ad-hoc team to deliver needed results such as facilities teams that helped with campus reopening efforts, welcoming students back, or coordinating campus wide efforts to keep the community safe. Or maybe they were members of a large project committee that rolled out a University-wide solution via a platform or system. Maybe this work team, such as a building care, dining hall or laboratory testing group, delivered a particularly public or heroic effort this past year. Group Nomination: If you know others who would like to nominate this group, you may do so as a group by adding the additional nominators’ names and net IDs to the online nomination form. Additional information may be requested of these individuals as part of the review process. Self-Nomination: If you would like to nominate yourself for the ONE Cornell category, please provide the names and Net IDs of 2-3 individuals There is no size limit for group nominations. Please be aware that due to time considerations we may not be able to name each individual in the group at the awards ceremony. NOMINATION FORM The Culture of Belonging Award In a Nutshell: Recognizes an employee who goes beyond expectations to create and support an open, inclusive, welcoming, and equitable workplace environment for all members of the Cornell community. This person speaks up as an ally when they see unfair treatment and puts diversity and inclusion principles into practice in their everyday work—regardless of the work they do. Keywords: Inclusion, Diversity, Integrity, Welcoming Overview and Criteria Cornell is committed to increasing the diversity of our workforce and creating an inclusive workplace founded on a culture of respect. Nominees support colleagues in feeling welcome as their authentic selves and empower all members of the community to contribute and participate fully. Nominees who are supervisors go the extra mile to create a culture of belonging in their teams and the larger organization. Your Culture of Belonging nominee should possess these essential Skills for Success: INITIATIVE: employee who takes the lead, regardless of their job title or level, to help others feel that they belong at Cornell. INCLUSION: Exceptional efforts to promote a workplace environment free from bias and discrimination, where all individuals are valued. JUDGMENT: Addresses areas of need and commits to progress and achievement—not because their job requires it but because it is the right thing to do. INTEGRITY: Aims to involve and incorporate others; establishes high standards for personal conduct. VISION: Receptive to new ideas, information, backgrounds, and experiences. We also encourage you to explore and incorporate one or more of Cornell’s Core Values into your nomination: Purposeful Discovery Free and Open Inquiry and Expression A Community of Belonging Exploration across Boundaries Changing Lives through Public Engagement Respect for the Natural Environment Nomination: What we’re looking for: What we are looking for: Here is your chance to tell us about an individual who goes beyond expectations to create and support an open, inclusive, welcoming, and equitable workplace environment for all members of the Cornell community. Consider the criteria above and use the Skills for Success to inform your response. We would also suggest including one or more Core Values to improve your submission. Examples: Perhaps this nominee supported colleagues or team members in digesting and better understanding current events to create a safe space for dialogue. To enable their colleagues to bring their authentic selves to work. Or, maybe the nominee incorporated lessons learned from diversity and inclusion trainings into their local unit, fostering a more welcoming and inclusive environment. Maybe the nominee developed and/or delivered targeted programming that helped enhance DEI initiatives across campus or for a localized unit or department. Group Nomination: If you know others who would like to nominate this individual, you may do so as a group by adding the additional nominators’ names and net IDs to the online nomination form. Additional information may be requested of these individuals as part of the review process. Self-Nomination: If you would like to nominate yourself for this award category, please provide the names and Net IDs of 2-3 individuals who can support your application. NOMINATION FORM New! The Culture of Sustainability Award In a Nutshell: Recognizes an employee who has exemplified the sustainability values of Cornell, made notable contributions to the sustainable development and social equity of the Cornell campus, or displayed outstanding partnership for advancing sustainability among the Cornell community. Keywords: Environment, Climate, Green, Balance Overview and Criteria As a global leader in sustainability innovation and learning, Cornell embraces a sustainability framework built around four key areas: Purpose, Prosperity, Planet, and People. This framework acknowledges that sustainability isn’t just about the environment – sustainability integrates how our actions and culture help create a healthy planet, ensure the wellbeing and equity of people, support a thriving economy, and contribute to our purpose as an educational institution (learn more about Cornell’s sustainability framework). Nominations may focus on a specific project or action, or the scope of work undertaken by an individual (group projects should consider the ONE Cornell award). Your Culture of Sustainability nominee should possess these essential Skills for Success: VISION: works to advance Cornell’s climate and sustainability goals as part of a larger effort that benefits our community and region. COMMUNICATION: shares sustainability knowledge and solutions, and contributes to or creates collaborations that strengthen trust and community building towards climate and sustainability goals of the university JUDGMENT: makes informed decisions that advance Cornell as a model of sustainable operations and experience. INITIATIVE: displays passion and innovation in sustainability thinking and practice, prioritizes sustainability, and empowers others to do the same. We also encourage you to explore and incorporate one or more of Cornell’s Core Values into your nomination: Purposeful Discovery Free and Open Inquiry and Expression A Community of Belonging Exploration across Boundaries Changing Lives through Public Engagement Respect for the Natural Environment Nomination: What we’re looking for: Here is your chance to tell us about an individual who goes beyond expectations to make progress toward Cornell’s sustainability goals. Consider the criteria above and use the Skills for Success to inform your response. We would also suggest including one or more Core Values to improve your submission. Examples: Nominee may have successfully reached, or helped a unit to reach, a climate action plan goal, reduced campus emissions, or improved sustainable performance in a specific area. Perhaps the nominee contributed to academic or educational programs addressing sustainability topics, or otherwise helped prepare students, staff, or community members to make informed sustainable decisions at work and home. Research projects or projects which attempted progress yet failed will be considered, as they teach how to improve for future efforts. Group Nomination: If you know others who would like to nominate this individual, you may do so as a group by adding the additional nominators’ names and net IDs to the online nomination form. Additional information may be requested of these individuals as part of the review process. Self-Nomination: If you would like to nominate yourself for this award category, please provide the names and Net IDs of 2-3 individuals who can support your application. NOMINATION FORM The Thoughtful Leader Award In a Nutshell: Recognizes an employee who brings out the best in others. They mentor and/or coach colleagues with exceptional skill. Keywords: Supervisor, Manager, Mentor, Leader Overview and Criteria The Thoughtful Leader Award is presented to Cornell employees who consistently demonstrate a high level of commitment and dedication to their employees and the Cornell workplace. Strong nominees create an environment that develops, empowers, engages, challenges, and motivates their staff and colleagues with a result of greater productivity, effectiveness, and a sense of belonging. They are problem-solvers and act with foresight and professionalism. These individuals also “live” the values of Learning, Discovery, and Engagement at Cornell. Your Thoughtful Leader nominee should possess these Leadership Skills for Success: INITIATIVE: shows a strong work ethic and helps employees to strategize and determine priorities; looks for opportunities to take initiative and/or exceed expectations. GROWTH: takes on the tough challenges; produces results under challenging circumstances and changing environments; prioritizes professional development for self and staff; looks for opportunities to grow employees’ skills and knowledge. VISION: inspires staff to work more efficiently and effectively; appreciates the value of feedback; an ambassador for the university as a great workplace where everyone can be their authentic self. INCLUSION: promotes an inclusive work culture; supportive of work/life integration for all employees; supports participation in university events and programs. We also encourage you to explore and incorporate one or more of Cornell’s Core Values into your nomination: Purposeful Discovery Free and Open Inquiry and Expression A Community of Belonging Exploration across Boundaries Changing Lives through Public Engagement Respect for the Natural Environment Nomination: What we’re looking for: Here is your chance to tell us about a special employee that brings out the best in others. They mentor or coach colleagues with exceptional skill, not because they have to but because this is important to them—investing in individuals and thereby investing in Cornell. Consider the criteria above and use the Skills for Success to inform your response. We would also suggest including one or more Core Values to improve your submission. Examples: Maybe the nominee showed initiative and flexibility by taking on new job roles as positions became vacant and team responsibilities grew. Perhaps the nominee is an administrator and took the lead in bringing together their local team, unit, or division with virtual gatherings or activities to keep individuals connected and feeling a sense of belonging at the particularly difficult time. Maybe the nominee volunteered to train and lead a team or colleagues through remote transitions including learning a new tool such as zoom, slack, or Microsoft teams. Group Nomination: If you know others who would like to nominate this individual, you may do so as a group by adding additional nominators’ names and net IDs to the online nomination form. Additional information may be requested of these individuals as part of the review process. Self Nomination: If you would like to nominate yourself for this award category, please provide the names and Net IDs of 2-3 individuals who can support your application. NOMINATION FORM The Trustee Award In a Nutshell: Established in 2019, the Trustee Award is a joint effort between the Board of Trustees and Human Resources to provide recognition to additional nominees who demonstrate overall excellence. Overview and Criteria The Trustee Award winners are selected by the Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer and the Board of Trustees from among the entire pool of nominees. The number of Trustee Awards is flexible and has no limitations with regard to the nominee’s category. Awardees chosen by the program committee, according to the rubric and scoring process, are set aside so the Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer and a representative from the Board of Trustees can review all of the remaining nominees. They look for overall employee excellence: strong evidence of outstanding character, energy, passion, and a positive impact on the business of the university and the people they work with; individuals whose efforts are particularly interesting and inspiring, and who are especially purposeful and skillful in their actions. Nominations can not be submitted for a Trustee Award; rather, the winners are chosen from the overall pool of nominees (excluding awardees chosen in named categories). While most awardees are notified prior to the event, announcement of the Trustee Award winners is kept quiet until the awards event, to underscore the prestige of this recognition. If you'd like to know more about how nominees are evaluated, view a draft of the rubric here. If you have questions, please contact excellence_nominations@cornell.edu. Updated: 05/03/2022 Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.