Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Job Opportunities / Benefits Snapshot Benefits Snapshot Who works at Cornell? Meet some of the awesome staff members who make working at Cornell so great! Staff Spotlight Life at Cornell comes with rich benefits. Cornell takes pride in offering generous benefits to support and enhance your health, wealth and wellness. Here’s a quick overview of the kind of total rewards that have made us an award-winning employer of choice. Please note that eligibility for the benefits described here depends on the type of job you hold. Visit the Benefits & Pay section to learn more. Health Care Cornell offers a variety of high-quality health insurance plans to suit individual needs and preferences. Choose among options that feature comprehensive preventive and specialist care and flexibility to support the health of yourself and your family. Lifelong Learning & Career Growth Earn a Cornell degree while you work, or take classes that enrich your career skills. We proudly offer generous education benefits for lifelong learning, as well as opportunities that support the education of future generations. Employee Degree Program – Covers full tuition for employees to pursue a Cornell University undergraduate or graduate degree related to their current job or Cornell career. Or take classes at Cornell and elsewhere through the Tuition Assistance Program. Training and Leadership Courses – Learn in the classroom or online. You’ll have access to free online training libraries like LinkedIn Learning and SkillSoft, and a variety of instructor-led courses on everything from leadership to time management. Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship – Children of employees are provided a partial scholarship at Cornell or other accredited institutions. New York’s 529 College Savings Program– A flexible and federally tax-deferred way to save money for your child, grandchild, friend or even yourself. Securing Your Future The best way to predict your future is to create it. Cornell benefits offer retirement plans, so you’ll have the resources you need to plan and achieve your financial goals. Retirement Plans– Depending on the job you hold, you’ll either be eligible for a 403(b) College and University Retirement plan or New York State retirement. Employees may also contribute to a tax-differed annuity plan to increase retirement savings. Disability and Leaves– Short- and Long-Term Disability plans provide income benefits for eligible Cornell employees unable to work due to illness, or injury not related to their job. Life Insurance – In addition to the Group Universal plan, Cornell provides basic coverage equal to one-half your budgeted annual salary, up to a maximum of $50,000 coverage. Quality of Life For many of us, our work is an integral part of our life. Cornell benefits and programs help you balance a meaningful career with a high quality of life. Generous time off – Look forward to competitive time off including holidays, vacation, health and personal leave, and parental leave. Flexible work options – Many of our employees have alternative work schedules, remote work arrangements or compressed work weeks that meet both personal and departmental needs. Cornell University Wellness Program – provides employees and their spouses/partners free fitness, nutrition, and wellbeing consultations. A Recreation Membership provides access to all five on-campus fitness centers, group fitness, recreation equipment, and two pools. Faculty and Staff Assistance Program – Free, confidential, 24/7 support for eligible employees and their families offering personal and professional guidance on anything from relationships to job satisfaction. Support for You and Your Family – Cornell offers an exceptionally inclusive working environment with programs and resources dedicated to meeting the needs of a diverse workforce, including people of color, LGBT, disabilities, and veterans, as well as parents, caregivers, and networking opportunities. The information on this website offers only a brief overview of the benefit plans available to Cornell University employees. A description of the benefit provisions, conditions and limitations is provided to employees in the Benefits Summary document available at https://hr.cornell.edu/benefits-pay/benefits-enrollment/benefits-reports-notices. Plans having these programs and features also have exclusions, limitations, reductions of benefits, and terms under which the plans and policies may be continued or discontinued. In the event of a conflict between this website and the plan documents or policies, the plan documents or policies will govern. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.