Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Benefits, Pay & Perks / Perks and Discounts Perks & Discounts In addition to excellent health care, retirement, and education benefits, Cornell employees can take advantage of these conveniences and discounts! Cornell Discounts The Cornell Store provides a wide array of products and services to make living and working on campus more convenient. In addition, they offer academic pricing on selected technology products for staff and faculty. Eligible employees may purchase computer hardware via a Payroll Deduction Plan from The Cornell Store. View payroll deduction plan details. (Contact: (607) 255-4111 or store@cornell.edu) Cornell University Hospital for Animals offers faculty, staff, and students a discount on veterinary medical care conveniently provided on campus (present Cornell ID card and complete registration for the discount at appointment). Ambulatory visits, pharmacy, diagnostic laboratory, and clinical pathology charges are not eligible for the discount. Contact: 607.253.3060 or vet-hosp@cornell.edu Bring your reusable mug to get 10% Discount at Cornell Dining locations, any beverage, any size! MealChoice is the meal plan designed exclusively for Cornell staff and faculty, giving you convenient, cash free access to Cornell Dining locations, campus vending machines with card readers, and Ithaca-area restaurants participating in City Bucks. (Contact: (607) 255-5368 or dining@cornell.edu) Save 10% off breakfast, lunch, and dinner purchases at all Cornell Dining cafes, food courts, and coffee houses. Pay just $7.50 for lunch (M-F) at any All You Care to Eat dining room on campus Buy 10 get 11th Free when you use a punch card with your MealChoice plan at All You Care to Eat dining rooms! SUNY Corporate Perks - Employee discount and savings program with offers from a wide variety of merchants, vendors, and providers. To join, click the "Register" link. When creating an account, enter an email address of your choosing and the Company Code: suny2015 (Contact: (607) 255-3936 or benefits@cornell.edu) Retail & Services Care.com Membership Cornell provides free unlimited Care.com membership to help employees locate and arrange care for your family, pets, and home. Procurement Services provides Employee Personal Purchase Discounts with the companies listed below. Cornell NetID is required to access the discount details PDF document. National store discounts are available to Ithaca and Cornell Tech employees. Questions? Contact: (607) 254-5300 or procurement@cornell.edu CORNELL EMPLOYEE PERSONAL PURCHASE DISCOUNTS (pdf) Car Purchases Maguire Automotive Car Rentals Avis Car Rental Budget Rent A Car Enterprise Rent-A-Car Hertz Corporation National Car Rental Cellular Phones and Service Verizon Wireless AT&T Mobility Computers Apple Computers Dell Computers The Computing Center The Cornell Store Computer Software Microsoft Office Software Antivirus Software Printing Services FedEx Office and Print Services Retailers Agway True Value Ithaca Corporate Shopping Company Michaels Stores Sedgwick Business Interiors W.B. Mason Moving Services Moving Services Travel Discounts AAA Corporate Travel Club Quarters Delta Air Lines Inc Hotel Discounts Commuters & Transportation TCAT BUS Employees (including temporary employees on the university payroll) can use their Cornell ID card at the fare box, Monday-Friday, to ride Tompkins Consolidated Area Transit (TCAT) buses on the Cornell campus and among Cornell facilities located downtown and near the airport – and pay no fare. For other transit options, visit Commuter and Parking Services. (Contact: (607) 255-4600) CORNELL MOTORIST ASSIST PROGRAM M*A*P (Motorist Assist Program) M*A*P is a free service provided by Transportation Services. We’ll inflate a soft tire, jump-start a dead battery, provide a gallon of gas, or call a locksmith or tow truck if necessary. Vehicles must be on University property. M*A*P response time is usually between 5 and 20 minutes. Call 607-255-4600 7:30 a.m.–4:45 p.m., Monday–Friday. WEILL CORNELL COMMUTERS Regular employees can claim various commuting costs to and from work on a pre-tax basis. For more information visit the Commuter Tax Relief Program on the Weill Cornell Medicine website. (Contact: (607) 255-4600) ITHACA-NYC BUS Cornell's Campus-to-Campus (C2C) express bus service is vital in linking the New York City and Ithaca campuses of Cornell University. (Contact: (607) 255-4600) COMMUTER BENEFITS A pre-tax commuter benefit option for those who work off the Ithaca campus. (Contact: HR Services & Transition Center (607) 255-3936) ITHACA AIRPORT PARKING Cornell faculty, staff, and students are eligible for a 25% discount on airport parking fees at the Ithaca Tompkins Regional Airport. Present your CU ID card to the parking attendant to receive the discount. For information about parking at the airport, visit flyithaca.com. Conveniences BANKING There are two banks centrally located on the Ithaca campus: CFCU Community Credit Union and Tompkins County Trust Company in the Cornell Store. Automatic Teller Machines (ATMs) from various banks are located across campus. (CFCU - Contact: (607) 257-8500; Tompkins Trust - Contact: (607) 273-3210) POST OFFICE The Cornell PostMarket offers most of the services you expect when visiting a United States Postal Services office (USPS), including postage stamps, packaging supplies, shipping services and forms, passport photos, and mailbox rentals. (Contact: (607) 255-3907) DRY CLEANING Drop off dry cleaning and bulk laundry is available to the campus community through Cornell's service centers. TRAVEL VISA & US PASSPORT PROCESSING Members of the Cornell community and their families traveling abroad for personal reasons may take advantage of Cornell's preferred visa and U.S. passport processing services vendor, Travel Document Systems. A 25% discount off processing fees will apply at time of checkout. Must access program through web portal to obtain discount. (Contact: 800-874-5100). CAMPUS SECURITY Cornell's pioneering Blue Light Program promotes and safeguards personal security and well being on the Cornell campus, particularly at night. (Contact: (607) 255-4600) LIBRARY As one of the 10 largest academic research libraries in the United States, Cornell University Library is a highly valued partner in study, teaching and research at the university. Cornell faculty and staff can use their Cornell ID cards to borrow books and other materials such as journals, videos or reserve items. View the Cornell University Library borrowing policies for faculty and staff. (Contact: (607) 255-4144) Wellness CORNELL RECREATION WELLNESS PROGRAM Cornell staff, faculty, retirees, and their spouses/partners can take advantage of FREE wellness consultations! fitness consultation nutrition consultation general health and wellness consultation tobacco/smoking cessation session general fitness and nutrition education session They also offer free workshops and lectures addressing topics such as diabetes management, food safety, and stress reduction, as well as exercise and cooking videos, plus fun events and campaigns to promote wellness throughout the year. https://recreation.athletics.cornell.edu/wellness/outreach Exercise Videos - by Wellness staff Cooking & Food Demo Videos - by Wellness staff Recorded Lectures/Workshops Printable Training Programs Fitness & Health Apps EMPLOYEE WELLBEING Check out the Employee Wellbeing at Cornell guide, loaded with resources to support all the dimensions of your wellbeing at work and beyond: mental, relationships, physical, cultural, environmental, occupational, and financial. Find out where to find support for parenting, eldercare, workplace safety, sustainability, managing finances, making connections, getting involved, self-care, and much more! Cornell University does not endorse, warrant, or guarantee any of the products or services offered by any of the above-listed third party vendors, and will not be liable for damages of any kind resulting from your use of these products or services. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.