Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Working During COVID-19 Important information for employees regarding COVID-19 guidelines and remote work resources. COVID-19 Employee Website Quick Links WORKDAY CONTACT HR HOLIDAY CALENDAR EVENTS MANAGER TOOLS WORKFORCE TOOLS News & Announcements View All Employee Wellbeing Update May 31, 2022 In this issue: LGBTQ+ Resource Guide for faculty & staff; Meditate at the Johnson Museum; Step It Up with Cornell Wellness; Women Swimmin' registration opens; and more! Step It Up with Cornell Wellness June 8 - 29 Join Cornell Wellness to walk or run Schoellkopf stadium steps in this 4-part in-person series. Wellness Recreation membership required. Retirement & Beyond Webinar Thursday June 2 Learn about changes to your benefits as you prepare to retire. Endowed employees 10-11:30am, Contract college 1:30-3pm. Employee Wellbeing Update: May 18, 2022 In this issue: Mental Health Resources, Sailing Lessons, Reducing Flood Risks at Home, Big Red Food Drive, and much more! Nominations Open for President's Awards for Employee Excellence 2022 Nominate an outstanding employee for Game-Changer, One Cornell, Mission Possible, Culture of Belonging, Thoughtful Leader, and new this year - Culture of Sustainability! Employee Wellbeing Update: May 2, 2022 Finding Flourish with Cornell Wellness; How Anxiety Hides in Your Habits; Free Rabies Vaccination Clinic, and more! Find Your Flourish with Cornell Wellness! Take a break, move your body and get outside every day in the month of May! Open to all employees, retirees, spouses, and partners. Volunteers Needed for Slope Day May 11 Faculty, staff, and students are encouraged to help ensure a fun and safe Slope Day experience - plus, all volunteers receive fun swag! Inclusive Excellence Summit April 25-27-29 This year's summit theme is "Truth and Reconciliation," and features a powerful lineup of speakers and workshops in-person and online! Getting Away for Spring Break? Employees are encouraged to complete an antigen test before and after travel - click for details for free testing kits. Get the Ball Rolling! Friday April 8 Cornell Recreation Connection invites staff, faculty, and retirees to enjoy some spring break lunchtime bowling - get your team together or come make new friends! Lunchtime Games - Scattergories! Tuesday, April 5 It's fun and easy! Take an online break with Cornell colleagues from across the university. Employee Wellbeing Update - March 22, 2022 In this issue: Women's History Month; First Time Homebuyer 's Seminar; Cornell YPCNG Inspiring Leaders Series; Cornell Red-Tailed Hawk Cam Nominations Open for the 2022 George Peter Award for Dedicated Service Know a Cornell employee who consistently goes above and beyond? Nominate them today for this prestigious award! Leases available to staff & faculty at Maplewood A limited number of unit leases for staff and faculty are available at the Maplewood complex. Apply by May 1! Leases are for August 20, 2022 - July 31, 2023. Cornell Named One of America's Best Employers for 2022 by Forbes Consider sharing the good news by adding a line to your email signature or posting to social media with these handy graphics! Changes to the Daily Check Health Assessment All employees will continue to get a daily email reminder; however, you only need to complete the assessment if you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. Symptomatic COVID Test Kits & Instructions Beginning January 31, Cornell will provide Symptomatic Test Kits to students, faculty, and staff; read more for pick-up locations and detailed instructions. 2022 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Commemorative Lecture, Feb. 3 at 7pm Featuring a conversation between Danté Stewart and Cole Arthur Riley, "In Praise of Being Black and Alive." Online and in-person attendance available. Preparing for Baby Series Spring 2022 Begins March 9 Register now for workshop series focusing on pregnancy, parenting, resources, and benefits. Free of charge to Cornell faculty, staff, postdocs, and students. Health Plan Coverage for Over-The-Counter COVID-19 Tests See these guidelines for coverage for endowed and contract college health plans. Soup & Hope 2022 Begins Thursday, January 27 at noon For 15 years, Soup & Hope speakers have touched, inspired, and motivated Cornellians and community members during the winter months. UPDATED Return to Work Guidelines Guidance from the January 6 email to all faculty and staff regarding boosters, faculty/staff testing, on-campus work, events and activities, and virtual instruction. Limber up for the new year! The "Stretch It Out" wellness experience January 3 - 14 will share pro tips, daily emails, and videos that you can try at your convenience. Help The Cornell Elves! Since 1989, the Cornell Elves have been making holiday magic for local children in need. Contact an elf leader to donate or learn how you can help! Guidance for Cornell-sponsored Winter Gatherings The university has issued guidance for Cornell winter gatherings in effect from December 8, 2021 to January 23, 2022. Make someone's day with the Appreciation Portal! It's easier than ever to thank, celebrate, and congratulate your colleagues - check out the new improvements to Cornell's appreciation portal and make someone's day! Destined for A Destination Wellness Experience November 15 - December 5 - Get moving, get outdoors, and get connected with your environment as we head into winter! Virtual Benefair: November 8, 9, 10 & 12 Questions about your endowed employee benefits? Get answers directly from vendors and Cornell representatives. Endowed Open Enrollment November 1 - 24 Open Enrollment is the time of year when endowed employees can make certain changes to health, dental, and vision plans. Check out the Halloween Photo Contest Winners! Take a little break and enjoy the creativity of fellow Cornell colleagues - view this year's winners plus all the fantastic photos that were submitted. President's Address to Staff: Friday, November 12 at noon The Employee Assembly hosts President Martha E. Pollack for her fifth annual address to staff, followed by a Q&A session. All staff are invited and encouraged to attend the webinar. President's Awards for Employee Excellence Winners Announced! Thank you to all who submitted nominations! Send congratulations to awardees and nominees on the Kudoboard. Vote Now For Your Favorite Halloween Happenings Photos! Voting is open October 26 & 27; winners will be announced Friday, October 29. Restorative Talking Circles for Cornell Employees A community space for processing the experiences, struggles, opportunities, and triumphs as we continue navigating COVID-19, campus transitions, and more. Celebration Conversations: Disability Employment Awareness - October 27 Join a conversation about the experiences of working at Cornell with a disability identity, and how we can all contribute to a more disability-inclusive campus culture. Employee Celebration Friday, October 29 Cheer on Cornell football vs. Princeton! Cornell employees can reserve a free ticket, plus stop by the Employee Celebration tent for a free gift! Enter the Halloween Happenings Photo Contest by Oct. 22! Upload your funniest, scariest, most original, best carving, or cutest critter photos! Voting will take place October 26-27 and winners announced Oct. 29. Vacation maximum reset extended to December 31 Vacation balance reset has been extended from October 16 to December 31 -- here's the details and how to check your balance. Child Care Grant for Faculty & Staff Applications Open Now Apply by October 15 for financial assistance to help pay for child care expenses. NY HERO Act requirements for all employees As of Sept. 20, all Cornell employees are required to complete the Daily Check health assessment each day prior to arriving on campus, and must complete the EHS2021 course by 10/15/21. Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month Sept. 15 - Oct. 15 Download a zoom background and resources to celebrate the cultures and contributions of those whose ancestors came from Spain, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Central and South America. On-Campus Flu Vaccine Clinics Sign up for a timeslot to get your annual flu shot now through November -- FREE for Cornell staff, faculty, and retirees! Let's Meditate with Cornell Wellness begins September 17 Join weekly 30-minute online guided mindfulness meditations, Fridays at 9am, September 17 - October 29. Volunteers needed for 2020 Commencement event on Sunday 9/19/21 Click for more information, including opportunity details and recognition. Volunteers Needed for Move-In August 19-25 Help make move-in a great experience for our new students and their families! Cornell Greater Ithaca Town Hall Wed., August 11, 3:30-4:00pm The webinar will include updates on the reopening of campus, and inputs from Cornell’s Albany and Washington offices. Staff Appreciation Street Fair Tuesday, August 10 Free food, games, giveaway prizes, and good times! 12:30 - 3:00 pm on the Arts Quad. Sponsored by President Martha Pollack, the Faculty Senate, and the Division of Human Resources. Learn About New Tools to Drive Your Career Forward! Attend workshops Wednesday, July 28 to learn about new features in Workday, including a skill-based mentorship program, gigs, networking, and other powerful career tools. Cornell Elves Summer Backpack Program is Back for 2021! Help local kids in need get the school year off to a bright start with a new backpack full of supplies. Donations and volunteers welcome! Summer plans? Get help with your Care@Work benefit! Cornell employees have free unlimited membership with Care.com to find help with care for family, pets, home, and more. Nominate an outstanding Cornell Employee! There is still time to recognize and celebrate colleagues, leaders, and teams for the President's Awards for Employee Excellence - don't wait till the last minute! Two-Step Login for Retiree Office 365 Accounts Starting Tuesday, June 8, 2021, Cornell retired staff, emeriti, and retired faculty will need to use 2-step login to access Office 365. June DEI Celebrations Help celebrate Pride, Juneteenth, and Caribbean American Heritage Month with these zoom backgrounds and learning resources! Grief Support Group June 7 - 21 A three-week group designed to help attendees process their loss in a supportive and respectful virtual setting. Take the Survey and Help Support A Disability-Inclusive Community at Cornel It's just a few quick questions, totally confidential, and makes a difference. CRC Game of the Month: Pictionary - Tues. May 18 at 3:15pm Take a break with Cornell Recreation Connection for a few lively online rounds of Pictionary! Open to staff, faculty, and retirees. Did your family participate in Cornell Kids@Home? Help us shape next year's event by completing a quick survey. Your feedback is important and greatly appreciated! May is Asian Pacific American Heritage Month Visit the DEI Celebrations page for upcoming events, resources, and zoom backgrounds. Participate in Cornell Wellness Days April 23 & 26 Try a taste of the new Wellbeing Menu, or check out these suggestions for things you can do to enhance your wellbeing while at work or away! Bring A Child To Work - Three Weeks of Virtual Cornell Activities for Kids! Kids in K-12 can learn to navigate the solar system, program a microcontroller, identify birds, make their own healthy snacks, and much more with Cornell experts. Inclusive Excellence Summit: April 27 & 28 Register today for this year's interactive online event, featuring keynote speakers and tangible actions you can take immediately to contribute to an inclusive work environment. The Science Behind COVID-19 Vaccines: April 12, 4-5pm A panel of Cornell experts will explain how the vaccines work and answer some common questions and concerns. Inclusive Excellence Academy Spring 2021 Seminars Register now for seminars on Immigrant Allyship, Becoming a Healthier You, and Bias Intervention. Unemployment Fraud What to do if you suspect you may be a victim of unemployment fraud. Spring into Learning! Check out career training opportunities scheduled for this spring, including help with performance dialogs, leadership, certificate courses, accounting, and more. Cornell Children's Tuition Scholarship Workshop 3/25 Do you have a senior who is interested in attending college next fall? Join this webinar for info about eligibility, application and payment processes. Celebrate Women's History Month Visit the diversity.cornell.edu website to download this Zoom background and check out resources and events to celebrate women's history. Seize the Winter - Virtual Commuter Event March 1 - 5 Challenge yourself to carve out time before and after your workday to move your body - perhaps during the time your commute to work used to take. Cornell Wellness and eCornell Celebration Conversation March 4 Join an informal conversation about Cornell Wellness' Celebration of Black History Month - all are welcome whether you watched one interview or the entire series. Community Building: Engaging in Difficult Conversations - Feb. 23 Join the Employee Assembly and key campus leaders on Tuesday, February 23, 12:00-1:00 pm for this important panel discussion. CRC Game of the Month Gathering: Scattergories! February 23, 12:15-1:00 pm Take a break with Cornell Recreation Connection for a lively game of Scattergories as they launch their new "Game of the Month Gathering" Public Safety at Cornell Survey Feb. 8 - 21 Open to Ithaca campus staff, faculty, and students; check your email for your unique survey link. Can You Administer Vaccinations? Cornell is seeking staff and faculty with the appropriate NYS certifications or licenses in the event the university is approved to provide COVID-19 vaccinations. Celebrate Black History Month with a zoom background The Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity has created a series of resources to recognize the contributions of communities and individuals to U.S. history. Update on Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives at Cornell An important message from Cornell leadership about the status of initiatives targeting campus public safety, faculty, colleges and schools, and staff. Soup and Hope begins Feb. 4 Heat up some soup and warm your heart with personal stories from members of the Cornell community -- without trudging into the cold! Stay Up To Date with COVID Workplace Guidance Check the COVID-19 employee website for the latest on testing, quarantine, travel, and other important information. Get a Cornell Penpal! Big Red Writes is open to Cornell employees, retirees, students, alumni, and K-12th grade children of employees. Updates to Employee Travel Policy and Guidelines Please read this important message from Mary Opperman, Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Complete "Responsibility at Cornell" by November 16 The 45-minute online training program has been assigned to all Cornell faculty, staff, and student employees in CULearn. Fall Into Learning! Check out professional development programs created just for Cornell employees, including leadership, communication, facilitation, and more. Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at Cornell Sign up now for a community chat for the first module of the six-course program for Cornell employees. Help Needed for Campus Reactivation Cornell employees can volunteer through Workday's Gig Opportunities to help at the Cornell Store, golf course, facilities, even as sailing instructors! EA Staff Feedback Forums - 2020 Summer Series View recordings and schedule for upcoming sessions, which address the phased re-entry to campus and other matters central to our workplace environment. Addressing COVID-19 Financial Challenges Temporary programs are being instituted to support the university's COVID-19 financial cost-saving measures. See how this may impact you. Fresh new offerings from Cornell Wellness New classes for fitness, meditation, yoga, even crockpot recipes -- all free and online! Schedule your Make It Happen Mondays, Take A Break Tuesdays, Workout Wednesdays and more now! Connected Cornell Chats Let’s get together in our virtual offices and homes to support one another through all that we are trying to manage right now. Signup for chats for Managers and Staff. Community Resources for Cornell Employees Tips and resources for the Cornell community to support wellbeing, health, caregiving, food and prescription deliveries during the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. Remote Work Guidance See pages for employees and departments/managers with important guidance for working from home, including checklists, agreements, technology, and resources. Cornell Wellness' Eat Right For Life Campaign March 9th-20th: Two weeks full of info to help you develop and sustain healthy eating patterns. Plus participants are entered into a prize drawing! Checkster: New Reference-Checking Tool for Hiring The new tool makes checking references quicker, easier, more consistent and more accurate. Checkster will be available for regular non-academic positions Feb. 17. Cornell Recreation Connection is putting the FUN into February! Lunchtime Ice Skating Feb. 24; Indoor Cornhole Party Feb. 24; Employee Bowling Party Feb. 25 -- Grab a colleague and join us for a fun break! Propel Your Career Forward with Development Workshops Check out these upcoming workshops, including topics such as Professionalism, How To Create Effective Presentations, Important Conversations, and more. Preparing for Baby Series Spring 2020 This informative workshop series is free to Cornell faculty, staff, postdocs, and students and their partners/support persons. Cornell Recreation Connection: Philadelphia Day Trip March 7 Just $54 round trip for Cornell staff, faculty, retirees, and their guests! Visit the famous Philadelphia Flower Show, shop, or explore historical sites - it's your choice! Staff Forum: Friday, January 24, Noon - 1pm, G10 Biotech All employees welcome - learn about new programs and tools, career development opportunities, plus Q&A with staff leadership. Livestream available! Winter Employee Celebration Saturday January 25 Tickets on sale till Jan. 17th: $5 for a day full of Big Red athletics, family activities, and popular community dinner. Volunteers Needed! Contract College Option Transfer: Dec. 6 - 31 Contract college employees can enroll in a flexible spending account, legal insurance, and make certain changes to health plan coverage. Help the Cornell Elves brighten the season for local kids in need! Sponsor a child with your office, family, or group as the Cornell Elves celebrate 30 years of service to our community. Discounted Trips to NYC and Bills vs. Jets Leave the driving to us and spend a day shopping in the city Sat. Dec. 14, or treat your favorite sports fan to the Bills vs Jets game on Dec. 29! Donate to the Cornell United Way Campaign Donations to the Cornell United Way campaign benefit our local community - including Cornell students, staff, and faculty. Endowed Open Enrollment Deadline Extended: Mon. Dec. 2 New plans! If you want dental or vision coverage or a medical or dependent care flexible spending account for 2020, you must enroll in Workday before 12/2/19. Measles preparedness for Cornell employees An important message to Cornell employees about protecting yourself and others around you from measles. President's Address to Staff Thursday October 10 All Cornell staff members are invited to attend and encouraged to submit questions in advance for the Q&A; the address will also be broadcast on Cornellcast. RED Day October 1- Free Cookies & Fruit for Employees THANK YOU to Cornell's awesome staff & faculty! Enjoy a tasty treat from noon to 1:30 (or til gone) -- click for locations and information. Retirement & Beyond Seminars: September 25 Get the info you need to plan for changes to your benefits and more as you prepare to transition into retirement. Applications for Child Care Grant Open September 4 - 30 Eligible faculty and staff can apply for tax-free grants of up to $5,000 to help pay for 2020 child care expenses. Backpack Donations Accepted till August 23 Help the Cornell Elves help local kids get off to a great start at school this year -- donate a backpack, supplies, or a check before August 23! Move-In Day Message to Faculty and Staff An important message regarding parking and travel on campus during move-in weekend, August 23-24 Volunteers Needed for Move-In Days, August 23 & 24 Help welcome 4,000 new Cornellians and their families! Volunteers will receive a t-shirt, a free lunch and/or dinner, refreshments during breaks, and fun swag, too! Student Employment Changes - Completing Form I-9 Please see this important information for student employees regarding how to complete I-9 form submission in Workday. Listen to New Inclusive Excellence Podcasts Engaging discussions about diversity and inclusion in the Cornell workplace, including action steps and interviews with colleagues. Staff Development Day - Wednesday, August 7, 2019 Take advantage of this opportunity to attend great workshops, ask questions from the experts, and network! Some sessions will be livestreamed. Lunchtime Lawn Games - July 24, 11:30 am - 1:00 pm Enjoy summertime fun and games on the Arts Quad with your Cornell colleagues - cornhole, badminton, lawn darts, croquet, and plenty more! Discounted NYC Trips for Cornell Faculty & Staff! Travel to historic Yankee Stadium to watch one of baseball's greatest rivalries: Yankees vs Red Sox, Aug. 3; or enjoy a day trip to the city on Aug. 10 Enjoy a Sweet Summer Treat, Tuesday, July 16 THANK YOU Cornell employees, for all you do! Join us for a summer treat of Cornell ice cream and fruit; click for locations. Celebrating staff in HR and the Division of the VPCHRO 32 staff members in our division celebrated milestone anniversaries at Cornell with Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, Mary Opperman. Thinking about retirement? Retirement & Beyond Seminar July 23 Get the info you need about your benefits, finances, and more: Friday 7/23, G01 Biotech; 10-11:30am (Contract College) or 1:30-3pm (Endowed) Watch for New Milestone Service Anniversary Emails Starting Sept. 9, 2019 staff celebrating service milestones (every 5 years) will receive recognition on the actual date of their work anniversary. Managers' Forum June 17, 9-10am Statler Auditorium Get the latest updates about programs and services that support your staff. Click to RSVP; livestream recording available. Dump & Run Collecting through June 14 The Dump & Run program helps support students, diverts usable goods from the landfill and raises money for charity. Volunteers needed! Click for dropoff locations and details. Nominations now open for President's Awards for Employee Excellence Make sure that employee excellence is recognized - nominate a colleague, team, or yourself today. Use the online form; you can even submit a video! Cornell ranked one of America's Top Employers Forbes teamed up with market research company Statista to pinpoint the companies liked best by employees - Cornell made the top 10 in education! Commencement Volunteers Needed! Be a part of the biggest event in the university year! There are lots of different assignments available, plus plenty of special perks. Contract College Special Option Transfer Period: Deadline May 31 Contract College employees can make certain revisions to health insurance plan enrollments before changes become effective June 1. Get Ready for Movement Madness May 6! Cornell Wellness presents a fun month full of physical activity and sports -- go to the Wellness Facebook page for daily tips, games, and prizes! Volunteers Needed for Slope Day, sign up by May 3 Share in the fun and support a safe, relaxing and enjoyable event for everyone! Required NY State and NYC Harassment Prevention Training A new training, "Maintaining a Harassment Free Environment." is available for all employees on CULearn. Bring A Child To Work Day: Thursday, April 25 Click for details on this popular family event featuring a day filled with fun activities that spotlight the amazing work done at Cornell University. University Hearing & Review Boards Seek Applicants Students, staff, and faculty are needed to hear and review cases brought by the Office of the Judicial Administrator as part of the campus disciplinary process. Apply by 4/1. Let Cornell Dining do the cooking tonight! "Take Us Home" meals to go are delicious and ready to heat and eat -- no mess, no extra trip to the grocery store. Pick them up on campus at several convenient locations. Introducing the new Cornell Appreciation Portal A new way for the Cornell community to recognize efforts, share encouragement, celebrate achievements, and appreciate one another! Preparing for Baby Series Spring 2019 Begins March 13 Register now to attend this helpful series of workshops, free of charge to Cornell faculty, staff, postdocs, students, and their partners/support persons. Big Red One-Day Online Auction is March 8! Bid from midnight-midnight on March 8 for great prizes, and support the United Way! New Cancer Support Group February 13 Faculty, staff, students, and retirees who have been diagnosed with or have had cancer are welcome, second Wed. each month, 12-1pm, 321 Weill Hall. Winter Employee Celebration: Saturday, February 16 Tickets are on sale through Feb. 8 - $5 includes the family-friendly community dinner and a full day of exciting Big Red athletics! 2018 W-2 forms are now available in Workday Click above for downloading instructions. Paper W-2s will be sent the week of January 14 to those who elected to receive their W-2 by mail. Contract College Option Transfer: Dec. 18 - Jan 18, 2019 Contract College employees can check out the Decision Guide to learn about making changes to health plan coverage or to enroll in an FSA or legal insurance. New Programs for Cornell Employees Presented at Forum Learn about recent and upcoming programs in the works from HR, including mentoring, development, and appreciation. Talk to your supervisor for more info! Could you use some help for the holidays? Cornell employees have free membership with Care.com, which can help you find child care, elder companionship, pet and house sitting, even help with cleaning and tutors! Staff Conversations: Final Sessions in December There's still time for you to participate! Join senior administration & the employee assembly for this important opportunity. See schedule for complete details. Statement on transgender support and protections VPs Lombardi and Opperman respond to the recent report that the Trump administration is considering a change to the definition of sex under Title IX. 2019 Endowed Open Enrollment November 1 - 19 It's that time of year again! Cornell employees can make certain changes to their healthcare plans or enroll in a Flexible Spending Account (FSA). Benefair November 6th Questions about your benefits? Connect with vendors and representatives, and learn about all the benefits available to Cornell employees! Cornell Orchards Store Apple Bake-Off: November 3 Show off and share your scrumptious apple creations, enjoy tasty family fun -- and benefit the United Way of Tompkins County, too! Staff Conversations Series: Oct. 15 - Dec. 13 Speak directly with senior administration & Employee Assembly leaders in an informal setting. Halloween Happenings for staff & faculty - Wednesday, October 31 Is your costume ready? Don't miss this hilarious display of creative genius - plus pizza, cupcakes, and great prizes! Professional Clothing Giveaway for Staff & Faculty Drop off gently worn professional clothing Oct. 15 & 16; giveaway is Oct. 18, 11am-2pm, 700 Clark Hall. Click for drop off locations & details. Fall Employee Celebration October 6: Volunteers Needed! Don't miss the popular BBQ chicken dinner and cheer on Big Red athletics including football vs. Harvard. Tickets on sale now. Volunteers needed! Fall is a Busy Season for Your Benefits! Important reminders about upcoming deadlines and events from the new HR Services & Transitions Center. Child Care Grant application period closed for 2019 Cornell's Child Care Grant Program helps faculty and staff pay for child care expenses by granting awards of up to $5,000 a year, tax free. Flood Damage? Emergency CARE Fund is here to help. Cornellians Aiding and Responding to Employees (CARE) Fund is available to help Cornell faculty and staff with financial assistance during a crisis. Employee Excellence Awards Nomination Period Extended Till Sept. 14 This year's nomination process has been totally refreshed, and is easier than ever! Nominate a colleague, supervisor, a team, or yourself. You can even nominate via video! Find the care you need for your family Cornell now provides free unlimited Care.com membership to help you locate caregivers such as babysitters, tutors, dog walkers, elder care assistants, house sitters and more. Cornell Elves Summer Backpack Program Help local kids in need get a great start on the new school year by donating a brand new backpack filled with school supplies. Help for Managing Work/Life Challenges Cornell faculty, staff, and retirees can get help with life transitions, health concerns, dependent care responsibilities, and more! Commencement Volunteers Needed! Be a part of the biggest weekend of the year at Cornell! Volunteers receive paid time off, free breakfast, prize drawing, thank you reception, and more! Sign up today! #DiversityIncludesDisability: Planning Accessible Events The latest Disability Awareness Campaign poster has been released, with a reminder to include accessibility in your event planning. This article shows you how! Cornell Children's Tuition Scholarship Have a child going to college next year? The 2018-2019 CCTS application is online now. Click for all the details, FAQs, and to apply. One Day Sale on Apple Products on Thursday, April 26, 2018 Cornell faculty and staff save an additional 8% off during the one-day Apple product sale at the Cornell store! Pre-orders accepted April 12-25. Bring A Child To Work Day - Thursday, April 26 A day full of activities to amuse and educate children ages 8-16 about the awesome things that happen at Cornell University. Registration opens March 30. Spring Into Wellbeing Challenge: April 9 - May 6 Shake off winter with this 4-week challenge that focuses on eight dimensions of wellbeing... and win prizes, too! Spring RED Day - Tuesday, April 3 Thank you, Cornell employees, for all the great work you do! Take a break on April 3 to step out and enjoy a snack with colleagues! Click for locations. March 29: 2-Step Login Expanding to All of Workday Get 2-Step set up now -- it's easy and keeps your personal data secure! Click the headline for everything you need to know. Retirement Planning Workshops: March 22 & 27 Thinking about retirement? These workshops will help you understand your benefits options when making this major transition. Downsizing & Decluttering Workshop: Monday, June 11 Learn smart practices and strategic planning to reduce stress through organization! Slope Day Volunteers Needed! Support a safe, relaxing, and enjoyable event for everyone – there are many ways you can help! Preparing for Baby Series Register for our free workshops for new and expecting parents at Cornell! March 9 - May 4 Disability Awareness Campaign - Learn How To Be An Ally What can YOU do to support a disability-inclusive community at Cornell? Check out these tips to help be an effective ally! A Cappella Cares Concert Saturday, February 24 Hear all of Cornell's A Cappella groups in one amazing concert! A family-friendly evening of fun and harmony that supports the Cornell Emergency CARE Fund. Staff Sustainability Champions Program Congratulations to Brian Hurley, Infrastructure, Properties And Planning, Facilities Management,Building Care! Read about his efforts and this exciting program. Winter Employee Celebration - Saturday February 17 Fun for Cornell staff, faculty, retirees, and their families! Community dinner, athletic events, and children's activities - click for ticket info and complete details. Workday replaces Kronos for time tracking Learn about improvements with the new time and attendance system that's been rolled out to better help employees manage time worked and time off. Nominations for Employee Excellence Awards are open through December 8 Do you know of a colleague who goes above and beyond expectations? Help recognize and celebrate Cornell's extraordinary staff members! 2018 Option Transfer: Nov. 15 - Dec. 15 The Option Transfer period for contract college faculty and staff is open through December 15. Visit the website for 3 simple decisions to make option transfer a breeze! Sustainability Life Recipe: Carpooling Over 1,500 Cornell employees already share rides to work -- learn more about how much you can save by joining them! Protect Your Identity And Personal Data Two-Step Login adds an extra layer of security for your Cornell NetID and password by connecting the login process to a physical device such as your phone. HR Offices Go Green! Congratulations to three teams in Human Resources that were recently recognized as Level 4 Green Certified Offices! Learn how you can get your office Green Certified. Title IX update: inclusive restrooms Cornell’s Restroom/Facilities Use Guidelines are unchanged by the recent actions of the federal government. Visit the Title IX website for details on our commitment and guidelines. Benefits Review Checklist Tips from Human Resources to make sure your benefits are on track for 2017. Gordon Barger Leads Benefit Services and Administration Meet the new senior director of Benefit Services and Administration. Flexible Spending Account Reminders See these important reminders about deadlines and claims for medical and dependent care flexible spending accounts (FSAs). An End-of-the-Year Message for Cornell staff Mary G. Opperman, vice president and chief human resources officer, shares an important message for Cornell staff. Gannett pharmacy now fills OptumRX 90-day prescriptions Cornell employees with Aetna health plans have a new option for filling long-term prescriptions. Currently, 90-day prescriptions or refills can only be obtained by mail order... PAWPRINT Stay up to date with news tailored for the Cornell community, employees, and retirees LIKE TO BROWSE VIDEOS? Have you checked out CornellCast? View Cornell events, lectures, interviews, and even how-to videos on exercises and cooking! CAREER/LIFE DIGEST A biweekly roundup ofupcoming training and development opportunities, as well as community and wellness events Check out the features of the new HR website We heard you! Read about improved navigation and new tools to help you get the information you need. Follow us What does it mean to work at Cornell? OUR WORKPLACE CULTURE Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.