Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Our Workplace / Appreciation & Recognition / Cornell Heroes Cornell Heroes "So much of the work of this university goes on behind the scenes. We notice, but we don’t celebrate often enough. And, it is the work of teams – smart people who come together for the betterment of this community and communities all over the world – that makes Cornell great." - Mary Opperman, Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Celebrating Cornell teams who rise to the occasion, go above and beyond, and save the day! What is the Cornell Heroes Recognition Campaign? Cornell Heroes is an annual celebration of employee groups or team achievements outside the formal awards process. Heroes teams are recognized with thank-you events, small gifts, and exciting raffle prizes, plus promotion of their achievements to the Cornell community. How can I nominate a team for Cornell Heroes? Email our recognition team at recognition@cornell.edu, and tell us about your group's exceptional commitment and work well done! Meet the Cornell Heroes of 2022! THANK YOU TO ALL THE MEMBERS OF THESE CAMPUS TEAMS: YOU ARE CORNELL HEROES! CORNELL HEALTH For their heroic efforts in taking care of our students during the pandemic: delivering food, medication, checking on mental and physical health, transporting students to hotels and all their efforts to help our students during the pandemic. COLLEGE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE For their commitment to animal health: The Animal Health Diagnostic Center (AHDC) and Cornell University Hospital for Animals (CUHA) staff continued coming into the hospital and diagnostic lab every day to care for the animals of our community. The COVID19 Testing Labs and Testing sites: for their commitment and dedication to rapidly creating and implementing testing procedures for our students, faculty, and staff. Their heroic efforts served our entire community and provided insights that successfully guided Cornell to continue our mission through an unprecedented crisis. FACILITIES & CAMPUS SERVICES Although many employees worked from home during the past two years, our campus still needed maintenance and attention. In addition to regular maintenance, facilities teams took on new challenges, changing air filtration systems in buildings, conducting floor-to-ceiling sanitation protocols, and then preparing campus for students to return. CUPD continued to maintain the safety of our campus, students, faculty, and staff through every up and down of the pandemic. CORNELL DINING In addition to quickly transitioning ways to provide meals to our students safely during the pandemic, they moved forward to open new dining facilities in our new residence halls. As our campus jumped from hybrid to in-person our dining team nimbly pivoted to accommodate changing food service protocols. CORNELL HOUSING Already providing a home away from home for students, this group saved the day and provided mental, emotional, and physical support to students through every step of their journey leaving and returning to campus. They filled the gaps with other units that accommodated new COVID projects, support, and protocols being put in place. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.