Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Fall Into Learning! Fall Into Learning! As we continue to adapt to our new remote-work reality, Organizational Development & Effectiveness (ODE) has evolved our Fall 2020 programming to a series of on-line professional development tracks that are most relevant and beneficial for continued success at work. These tracks include courses that can be taken individually or receive a certificate by taking all the courses within the track. There is no required end date for completing any track – take classes at your convenience and complete in your own time! Fall 2020 Leading in these Times Course 1: The Changing Landscape of Work; October 15, 9:30 – 10:45 am Course 2: Building Connections; October 22, 9:30 – 10:45 am Course 3: Recognizing, Developing and Moving Talent at Cornell; October 29, 9:30 – 10:45 am As a leader, it is vital to understand the ever-changing landscape of where and how we work. In this track, managers will explore relationships, strategies for effective communications, coaching for performance and development, and how to tap into employee strengths and passions. Objectives: Understand the changing landscape of where and how we work Learn how to build connections, norms, and culture across the team Establish trust within your team Understand the importance of recognizing, utilizing, developing and moving talent at Cornell Facilitated by Jim Sheridan, Sr. Management Consultant and Tanya Grove, Sr. Management Consultant Building Trust Course 1: Establishing and Maintaining Trust in Work-Groups; October 21, 9:30 – 10:45 am Course 2: The Value of Trust for Creating and Maintaining Belonging; October 28, 9:30 – 10:45 am As a leader, it is your responsibility to establish trust and motivate the team to create an environment that encourages collaboration and partnership between colleagues. As a member of the team, what are you doing to foster an environment where trust is co-created? In this program, we will explore: How to establish trust within onsite, hybrid and remote work-groups What actions in work lead to trust and which disrupt trust How teams with high levels of trust can support employee engagement and a sense of belonging Facilitated by Jim Sheridan, Sr. Management Consultant and Tanya Grove, Sr. Management Consultant Communications Course 1: HR 3055 Managing and Facilitating Meetings; November 10, 9:30 – 10:45 am Course 2: HR 3056 Effective Listening; November 17, 9:30 – 10:45 am Course 3: HR 3057 Giving and Receiving Effective Feedback; November 24, 9:30 – 10:45 am Course 4: HR 3058 Difficult Conversations; December 1, 9:30 – 10:45 am As a result of this track of communicating in remote, onsite, and hybrid work environments, you will learn: Effective techniques for facilitating business meetings The importance of listening and techniques for effective listening Cornell's expectations on giving and receiving feedback and strategies to do that well How to approach and manage difficult conversations Facilitated by Jim Sheridan, Sr. Management Consultant and Tanya Grove, Sr. Management Consultant Emotional Intelligence Course 1: HR 3059 Intro to Emotional Intelligence; October 15, 1-3 pm or October 22, 1-3 pm Course 2: HR 3060 Self-Perception - Self-Regard, Self-Actualization; October 29, 1-2:15 pm or November 6, 1-2:15 pm Course 3: HR 3061 Self-Expression – Emotional Expression, Assertiveness, Independence; November 12, 9:30-10:45 am or November 18, 9:30-10:45 am Course 4: HR 3062 Interpersonal – Interpersonal Relationships, Empathy, Social Responsibility; December 9, 9:30-10:45 am or December 17, 1-2:15 pm Course 5: HR 3063 Decision Making – Problem Solving, Reality Testing, Impulse Control; January 13, 9:30-11:30 am or January 21, 1-3 pm Course 6: HR 3064 Stress Management – Flexibility, Stress Tolerance, Optimism; January 27, 9:30-10:45 am or February 4, 1-2:15 pm Course 7: HR 3065 Pulling it all Together!; February 10, 9:30-11:30 am or February 18, 1-3 pm The capacity to be aware of, control, guide, and express one's emotions, and to handle interpersonal relationships judiciously and empathetically. In this 7-part track, we explore the role of emotions in our daily lives. The series will begin by exploring our own self-perception and expression and move through how it effects our interpersonal relationships, decision making, and stress management. Objectives: Understand what emotional intelligence is, how it works, and how we talk about it Explore emotions and their roles in our daily lives at work and beyond Evaluate the importance of emotional intelligence in navigating current events Develop a toolkit to help navigate interpersonal relationships, and decision making Utilize tools to help manage stress and maintain personal wellbeing Facilitated by Ari Mack, Organizational Development Consultant and Vivian Relta, CITE Associate Director and Facilitator Employee Engagement November 3, 1-2:30 pm or November 4, 9:30-11 am Engaged employees fully invest their best selves in the work they do. But what is employee engagement and how is it created? Employees and leaders intuitively know that when we find a place where we can throw our hearts, spirits, minds, and hands into our work, we are happier, healthier, and produce better results. Yet, most of us struggle to understand exactly why we engage in some environments and don’t in others. As a result of attending this workshop, you will: Understand what employee engagement is and isn’t Learn the 3 types of employees and how to locate yourself among them Develop strategies to remain committed to workplace mission and vision while maintaining and enhancing your own wellbeing Explore the pillars of intrinsic motivation and how to work with your organization to ask for what you need Develop strategies for cultivating a collaborative and empowering environment that fosters pride, creativity, and commitment amongst our employees Facilitated by Ari Mack, Organizational Development Consultant and Deb Billups, Career Development Consultant Other new & continuing development opportunities: Tips for Effective Facilitation November 4-5, two consecutive days; 9:00-11:00 am each day Group facilitation is an important leadership skill that can really help a team achieve their goals in the most effective and constructive manner. Hence the role of the facilitator is to help the group make progress and find their own solution in the easiest and most effective way. This 2-part course provides hints and tips to enhance your effectiveness at facilitating groups. Objectives: Part 1: (2 hours) Focus on the expectations of your role as a facilitator of meetings and discussions Be self-aware and raise the consciousness of your abilities, triggers, and biases as a facilitator Develop the ability to connect with all participants make the experience about the group and not oneself Learn how to engage participants with various lived experiences Part 2: (2 hours) Deepen skills in developing objectives and agendas with a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) perspective, accounting for people’s feelings and emotions in regards to topics around social identity Develop facilitator and co-facilitation strategies: setting expectations/ground rules, ask follow-up questions, ask for clarification, practice active listening, honoring the other, paying attention to body language and voice Facilitated by Anthony Sis, Diversity and Inclusion Training Specialist, Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity and Jim Sheridan, Sr. Management Consultant, Organizational Development and Effectiveness Leader as Coach November 16-19, 2020; 4 consecutive days: 9 am-12 pm each day Leader as Coach focuses on the supervisor or leader as coach based on the 2002-19 Presence-Based Coaching model. After the course, you'll have access to follow-up coaching sessions providing the opportunity for skill mastery by putting all your learning and intentions into practice. Objectives: Learn the principles of coaching Understand the importance of supervisor as coach Utilize a coaching model to help individuals discover their personal and professional potential Leverage mindful-based coaching strategies as a leader Develop relationship and establish trust Explore personal biases, cultural influences and learn to consciously coach across differences Open to faculty, supervisors and staff who are responsible for the work of others as supervisors or project or program managers and who have attended the Faculty Leadership Program, Chair Program, Harold D. Craft Leadership Program or Turning Point as the program builds on concepts from those programs. Facilitated by Kathryn Burkgren, Ph.D., AVP Organizational Development & Effectiveness; Tanya Grove, Sr. Management Consultant and Ari Mack, Organizational Development Consultant Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at Cornell In this six-course certificate program, you will hear from Cornell leadership about the importance of evolving a culture of diversity, equity, and belonging. Using Cornell’s Skills for Success as your foundation, you will develop techniques to create and cultivate an inclusive work environment. Building on these values, you will examine ways to initiate change through self-examination and by evaluating how power, privilege, and oppression manifest in your everyday life. As the program progresses, you will have the opportunity to practice engaging respectfully with peers and teams with different perspectives and using strategies to speak up and respond when you witness bias. By the end of this program, you will be empowered to support a Cornell culture where everyone feels valued and where we can all bring our whole, authentic selves to work The course format consists of short, 2-4 minute videos interspersed with reflection exercises, activities to establish comfort and confidence, and a completion quiz. Optional university-wide community conversations will be offered via zoom. Additionally, colleges/units can choose to host their own conversations. Facilitation guides will be made available for colleges and units that wish to host conversations within their organizations. If you haven’t already completed the first course, you can register here: CU101 - Cultivating Cornell's Inclusive Working Environment. Once you have completed CU101, consider registering for a chat to support the course! Upcoming chats will be held on October 7, 13 and 15 and you can register to attend by clicking on the links under Community Chats here. Popular Articles Employee Wellbeing Update - March 22, 2022 Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.