Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Cornell Orchards Store Apple Bake-off, Nov. 3, benefits United Way October 18, 2018 The Cornell Orchards Store, at 709 Dryden Road, Ithaca, is holding its inaugural Apple Bake-off Nov. 3, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. The bake-off is open to the public; proceeds will benefit the United Way of Tompkins County. To participate, sign up by Oct. 26 at 6 p.m. in person at the Cornell Orchards Store, by emailing Orchards-store@cornell.edu, or by calling the Cornell Orchards Store at 607-255-4542, and bake any edible apple creation of your choice. Entrants will receive a coupon for baking apples from the store, which they have the option of using in their apple creations. Baked goods must be submitted Nov. 3 at 10 a.m. at the Cornell Orchards Store. The Nov. 3 event will include: A tasting of apple creations: For a small donation, attendees can taste bake-off creations and submit their vote for “People’s Choice”; A raffle from the Cornell Orchards Store, to benefit the United Way of Tompkins County; Local vendors, who’ll offer samples of their products; Face-painting, balloon animals and a caramel apple bar for children; and Awards for the bake-off’s grand prize and people’s-choice prize. For more information, contact the Cornell Orchards Store, 607-255-4542. News & Events Staff News Media Inquiries Media Contact Lindsey Knewstub lmh267@cornell.edu 607-269-6911 Get Cornell news delivered right to your inbox. Subscribe You might also like New apple disease spoils even pasteurized foods At apple festival, Society for Horticulture booth bursts with flavor Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON