Skip to main content Search form Search This Site Cornell Cornell Recreational Services Wellness Program menu Home & Events Hours & Facilities Bowling Fitness Centers Intramurals Noyes Wellness Program Home Wellness Program Cornell Wellness Outreach Finding Flourish - A Wellness Experience May is National Physical Activity and Sports Month and National Mental Health Awareness Month. Join this wellness experience to explore how you can begin to flourish this spring. The commitment is simple - take a break, move your body and get outside. We encourage you to do those three things every day in the month of May, even when work and life are nuts! You’re committing to take the time, energy and wherewithal to shake up your day to include moments away from work. You’re committing to get outside, even if it only means to smell the spring rain. You’re committing to moving your body every day in some way, no matter how big or small, gentle or intense. You’re committing to make space for personal growth and a change of habits. You’re committing to being curious and grateful for your own, personal flourishing. You will get two emails every week on Monday and Friday. There will be opportunities for personal engagement and support with wellness professionals along the way, including hosted physical activity events across campus. And there will be space for personal reflection on your experience. No membership needed. Participation in the on campus activities is not required. We invite all employees, retirees, spouses and partners to participate from both near and far. Register here to participate in this experience. #MoveMore #GetOutsideMore In this section #Fitspo Got You Down? A Lunch and Learn about Fitness Imagery on Social Media Blood Pressure Screenings Celebrate A World Of Flavor Cholesterol Education Campaign Colorectal Cancer Awareness Come Stroll and Chat with Cornell Wellness: Arts Quad Edition Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) Community Wellness Chat: Nutrition & Fitness to Support Blood Sugar Balance Community Wellness Chat: Staying Active In Colder Weather Community Wellness Chat: Thinking Through Nutrition And Mindfulness In The Winter Cook Along With Me Cooking And Food Demo Videos Coping When Work And Life Ramp Up Cornell Wellness Celebrates Black History Month Cornell Wellness Collaborates With The Cornell Hip Hop Collection And DJ ha-MEEN Cornell's Bike Week Challenge Create On-Site Fitness Opportunities Destined For A Destination Diabetes Awareness Campaign Eat Right For Life Campaign Eat Safe Campaign Exercise Videos Exercising While Pregnant: Managing Your Physical Wellness Fall Seasonal Cooking Demo Finding Flourish - A Wellness Experience Fitness & Health Apps Fitness Consultation Flickering Flame Meditation Form A Wellness Committee Gateway To Gut Health Mini-Course General Fitness And Nutrition Education Session General Health And Wellness Consultation Getting Ready To Quit Smoking Holiday Discounts At YMCA and Island How To Read A Nutrition Label Hydration Challenge Hydration Themed Offerings Let's Meditate With Wellness Let's Meditate with Cornell Wellness Living On Purpose Local and National Resources Managing Your Wellbeing With Gestational Diabetes Massage Therapy Meditation Meditation: Removing Obstacles Mental Wellness Challenge Mental Wellness Experience Mental Wellness Themed Offerings Movement For The Mind Movement Madness Movement Themed Offerings National Nutrition Month Campaign Nutrition Consultation Nutrition Themed Offerings On The Move - Running Group Optimizing Your Space For Exercise Packing Healthy Lunches Workshop And Chat Physical Activity Options Pick A Healthy Habit Challenge Plant Based Nutrition - Getting Started Positivity: Re-Working The Mind For A More Optimistic Thought Process Prenatal Wellness Chat – A Focus on Nutrition and Fitness Recorded Lectures/Workshops Releasing The Sense Of Control Guided Meditation Restorative Talking Circles Running Groups STAC your Wellness for LVTs Sleep Challenge Sleep Themed Offerings Spring Cook Along With Wellness Step It Up - Walking Group Stress Less Sessions Stress Less Sessions Stretch It Out Support For Off-Campus Locations Tobacco/Smoking Cessation Session Training Programs Valentine's Day Challenge Virtual Commuter Challenge Virtual Commuter Winter Event Walking Maps Wellbeing Resources at Cornell Wellbeing@Work Interview Series Wellness Blog Wellness Book Club Spring 2022 Wellness For Your Department What's The Best Diet For Me? Winter Reflections Mindfulness Meditation Sessions You're Not Alone - Alcohol Awareness Campaign Contact Cornell University Wellness Program 305 Helen Newman Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Phone: (607) 255-5133 wellness@cornell.edu Admin office hours: M-F 9am-2pm; 3:00pm-5:00pm Cornell Wellness Staff Listing Cornell University ©2021 Links Athletics Cornell Outdoor Education Physical Education Recreational Services Staff Listing Web Accessibility If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. About Us Learn more about Cornell Wellness, our staff and how to stay in touch with us. Did you know that you can request a Flexible Work Arrangement to help with your Wellness and Wellbeing needs?