View this email in your browser May 18, 2022 Update - View past editions Regarding the shooting in Buffalo We acknowledge the horrific hate crime last weekend in Buffalo, in which an admitted white supremacist killed 11 Black shoppers at a Tops Market. Processing such violence and hatred is difficult for many reasons and is informed by our lived experience. While some people discuss their feelings at work, others turn to their family, friends, or community. As colleagues and a community, we can support each other through acknowledgment, respecting boundaries, genuinely listening, and offering assistance when appropriate. If you are struggling, help is available. The Cornell Faculty and Staff Assistance Program provides free confidential counseling. Call 255-2673 or email fsap@cornell.edu to get started. For 24/7 support, contact eni Confidential Counseling Services by calling 1-800-327-2255. There are also other 24/7 hotlines that offer support based on life experiences and identities. If you or someone you know is located in Buffalo or Erie County, community support is available by calling 211 or texting your zip code to 898-211. Mental Health in Tompkins County In recognition of May as Mental Health Awareness Month, Frank Kruppa, Public Health Director and Mental Health Commissioner of the Tompkins County Health Department, examines the mental health crisis and updates residents on available supports. Kruppa encourages everyone to reach out, share resources, and stay connected. "Supporting those in need may take directly connecting someone to a service to make that first, hard step a little easier. And while checking in on the wellbeing of others, don’t forget to check in on yourself too and seek help if you need it." StigmaFree Me (National Alliance on Mental Health) Learn how to use respectful language when talking about mental health and mental illness with these tools from NAMI. Garden & Arboretum Hike May 21, 10am. Participants will enjoy an extended hike (approximately 3 miles) and learn about the diverse plant collections and landscapes of the Cornell Botanic Gardens. Fee of $10-12. Sailing Lessons at the Merrill Family Sailing Center Cornell Wellness is excited to announce sailing lessons open to the entire Cornell community. Five class dates will be offered through June. Contact Greg Brown for more information. Central Finger Lakes Birding Trail Opens The Central-Finger Lakes segment of this statewide trail includes 54 locations throughout 15 counties, providing a variety of quality birding experiences. Annual Hasbrouck Apartments Yard Sale May 21, 10am-12pm. Check out this annual yard sale with antiques, clothing, kitchen items, and more! 121 Pleasant Grove Road. Bike/Walk Tompkins Bike Sale May 26, 5pm, Ithaca Farmer's Market. Annual sale of affordable youth, adult, and recumbent bicycles. For parents of children heading to college: Financial Aid 101 June 3, 12pm. Join Jennifer Fibbe Wickham, Senior Assistant Director of Financial Aid and Admissions at Cornell University and learn about the college financial aid process and when you should start preparing. This program is informative regardless of where the child plans to apply/attend. Dispelling the Model Minority Myth May 20, 12pm, Sage Hall, B06 and online. Join the SC Johnson College of Business for their monthly Faculty-Staff Roundtable Lunch Series celebrating Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. Cornell’s History with Indigenous Communities A new website highlighting Cornell’s commitment to Indigenous nations and communities within North America has launched. What's That Bird? May 19, 1pm. In this one-hour webcast, Cornell Lab of Ornithology describe how they used the power of citizen scientists, artificial intelligence, and machine learning to create the most advanced bird identification app available. Reducing Flood Risks for Your Home (Sustainable Finger Lakes) May 25, 12pm. This webinar will discuss FEMA's new flood maps and findings, flood insurance options, and tips for how you can reduce flood damage to your home. Recognize a Sustainability Champion Recognize an employee who demonstrates sustainability leadership with actions big or small in the Recognition Portal. Monthly winners will be given prizes and be entered into the annual sustainability awards. Illuminations: A Community Memorial (Hospicare) June 9, 7:30pm. Enjoy the Hospicare gardens, light a luminaria in memory of a loved one, and share in a special program of remembrance featuring live music, poetry, and concluding with a sunset rendition of “Taps” by their pond. Finding peace with singlehood in a society that wants everyone to partner up (NPR) Tips from the experts on how to find peace with singleness and live a full life on your own terms. Virtual Lunchtime Games May 25, 12pm. Cornell Recreation Connection is hosting a May virtual game, Pictionary! Take a little break and enjoy some fun with your Cornell colleagues. Design Your Ideal Workweek and Do More of What You Love (Atlassian) Use these templates to learn how to manage your energy levels and minimize any slumps. Big Red Food Drive The Big Red Food Drive is a food donation effort put on by Cornell Hunger Relief (CHR). Bring non-perishables to CHR's collection bins in the RPCC lobby and Noyes Community Center weekends, 11am-2pm and weekdays 4-8pm through May 22nd. Two Ways to Help Your Team Members Feel Heard (Greater Good) Employees who have more of a voice—opportunities to proactively provide input and offer suggestions for improvement—are more likely to produce and implement innovative solutions to problems. About the Wellbeing Update: Information provided by Cornell Work/Life, Cornell Wellness, and the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program about campus and community resources, programs, and events. Explore past editions or email wellbeing@cornell.edu to ask questions or suggest a resource. Published roughly every other week. Information shared does not indicate Cornell endorsement. Copyright © 2022 Cornell University, All rights reserved. This email was sent to <<Email Address>> why did I get this? unsubscribe from this list update subscription preferences CU · 2222 · Tully, Ny 13159 · USA