Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Benefits, Pay & Perks / Education / Tuition Aid In this Section: Tuition Aid FAQ Tuition Aid Help to pay for education outside Cornell that supports your job. The Tuition Aid program provides tuition assistance for coursework not available at Cornell which contributes directly to the improvement of knowledge or skills related to your job. Tuition Aid is a partial reimbursement program that can apply to classes towards a degree program or job-related workshops/courses. Coursework does not have to be college-level, but institutions must be accredited through the American Council on Education. Tuition Aid FAQs Tuition Aid Application * (pdf) *Note: the application above is designed to be fillable and printable, and works best by opening with Adobe Acrobat or using Chrome or Internet Explorer browsers; Firefox and Safari browsers may present issues. Limitations Provides partial reimbursement for cost of tuition only; books, registration fees, exams, and other associated costs are not covered. Courses must be job-related. Courses do not need to be taken for credit, or as part of a degree program. Accredited workshops, certificate programs, and online courses are eligible. The Tuition Aid Program will cover an approved job-related course at an accredited institution for up to four (4) credit hours (or equivalent) per semester, and eight (8) credit hours per fiscal year (July 1 – June 30) at a reimbursement rate of $160.00 per credit hour, and maximum of $640.00 per semester for the 2020-21 academic year. Eligibility Eligibility must be met on or before the first day of classes for the semester in which you apply for funding. Eligible for 4 credit hours per semester, 8 credit hours per fiscal year (July 1 – June 30) Full-time employees or non-professional academic staff and faculty members, who do not hold voting status on any college, university, or graduate faculty, and have satisfied one year of full-time service Part-time employees who have satisfied three years of service (or fulfilled one year full-time service before moving to a part-time job of no less than 20 hours per week) Temp with benefits (appointment for more than one year) may enroll in classes after one year if appointment continues to span that academic semester Family medical leave, if eligibility requirement was satisfied before the leave Eligible for 6 credit hours per semester, a maximum of 12 credit hours for the one year layoff period Layoff if eligibility requirement was satisfied before layoff. Courses enrolled in during layoff do not need to be job-related. Short-term disability if eligibility requirement was satisfied before disability; 6 credit hours/semester for duration of disability Long-term disability if eligibility requirement was satisfied before disability; 6 credit hours/semester while on LTD status Not eligible for the Tuition Aid benefit: Employees of County Cooperative Extension offices Employees on position leave or university leave Temporary employees with appointments of less than one year Retirees Terminated employees Release time from work You will be granted release time only when courses are not available at times other than scheduled work hours (i.e., evenings or weekends). Since the coursework being pursued is job-related, there is no requirement to make up time spent in class or in travel to and from the class if classes do occur during regular working hours. For classes that are encouraged by a supervisor and only available during your normal work day, time away from work would be considered time worked. If you attend a course occurring at times other than your regular work hours, no paid leave is permitted. Tuition reimbursement You are required to pay for classes at the time of enrollment. The Tuition Aid reimbursement will be awarded after any Tuition Aid Program or scholarships for tuition have been applied. The combination of TAP, tuition scholarships and Tuition Aid cannot exceed the cost of tuition. To be eligible for reimbursement you must: Remain enrolled through the completion of the course and receive a grade of “C” or better Provide an official grade report reflecting a grade of “C” or better and a tuition receipt to Benefit Services, 395 Pine Tree Road. If you are enrolled in classes at Tompkins Cortland Community College (TC3)/BOCES or SUNY Empire State College: You can request your approved amount of tuition aid be deferred until completion of the course by checking the box above your signature on the application. You are required to pay your portion of the tuition cost to TC3/BOCES or SUNY Empire State College at the time you enroll. Upon completion of the class(es), TC3/BOCES or Empire State College will submit a list of grades for all Cornell employees to Benefit Services. Payment will be remitted to TC3 or Empire State College for all grades of C or better, or to BOCES for employees who completed 75% of class time. If you do not meet those requirements, you will be billed by TC3/BOCES or Empire State College. How to apply Complete the Tuition Aid Application (pdf). Your supervisor and department head’s signatures are required. If you are on lay-off or disability status, you will need the approval and signature of a Benefit Services representative. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.