Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Our Workplace / Appreciation & Recognition / Staff Spotlight Staff Spotlight Talented, passionate, and dedicated are just some of the superlatives that describe our employees. Meet some of the staff members who make Cornell such a great place to work! Do you know a Cornell employee we should shine the #StaffSpotlight on? Let us know! Ramja Sritharan Research Technician, Praveen Sethupathy Lab "My favorite thing about working at Cornell is the vibrant community and what it has to offer. I enjoy having creative conversations with the talented group of peope I work with on a daily basis in the lab that leads to cutting edge cancer research at Cornell and makes it possible for future potential cancer therapy." Ramja was nominated for a President’s Award for Employee Excellence in the Culture of Belonging category. Her nominator applauded Ramja as "one of the few people in the world able to perform ChRO-seq. But beyond the scientific, technical and intellectual achievements, what characterizes Ramja is her heart, a heart desiring the best for each person and a tolerant, peaceful and harmonious world characterized by respect... She demonstrates exceptional efforts to promote a workplace environment free from bias and discrimination, where all individuals are valued." The Biomedical Sciences department in the College of Veterinary Medicine creates international solutions as well as clinical research for Ithaca's Campus and the New York area. Check out their page to learn more about their innovative research and team. George Scofield Retail Manager, Cornell Campus Store (Retired) George recently retired after 45 years of service at the Cornell campus store. What was his favorite thing about working at Cornell? The students! Meeting all the diverse students from around the world, hearing their stories and where they came from. He worked a lot with art and architecture students, and didn't like sending a student to class if they didn't have what they needed. George says that working with students gave him energy so that he never felt himself getting older as the years went by. It's never too early to start planning for retirement -- check out our pre-retirement planning resources. Penny Spoonhower Associate Director, Regional Volunteer Giving Initiatives, AAD "Over the past 18 years I have had the good fortune to work with phenomenal colleagues and alumni volunteers who inspire me each and every day. The collective work we do reaching out to alumni, parents, and friends across the country is like no other. Knowing your work impacts Cornell directly and is making a difference in the world is so rewarding. I feel very fortunate to be a part of this great team and university." Alumni Affairs & Development connects over 230,000 Cornell alumni who span the globe. Learn about AAD's work to continue the Big Red spirit beyond campus and advance the university's mission through engagement and philanthropy. Stephanie Watt Assistant Director, Class and Reunion Programs, Alumni Affairs and Development Stephanie says one of her favorite things about Cornell "is the vibrant alumni community. It's amazing to see the energy and passion of the volunteers, and how that extends to the ideas they bring to life." Stephanie is described as a former stand-out student employee turned stand-out staff member, who married her college sweetheart, also a Cornellian! Did you know that 15% of Cornell staff also have a Cornell degree? Or that you can earn a Cornell degree while you work here? Learn more about our Employee Degree Program and continuing education benefits. Chris Kelly Graphic Designer, Alumni Affairs & Development "I’ve been with Cornell for 15 years and feel genuinely proud to support all the amazing things CU offers the world. In addition to graphic design, I’ve enjoyed opportunities to make other meaningful contributions part of my work life, such as serving on inclusion/diversity councils, developing facilitation skills, and acting as a guide for the Let’s Meditate program (http://bit.ly/30SLPBw). I’ve also gotten to know many thoughtful, creative colleagues—many of whom I’m now happy to call friends." Check out Cornell's Diversity & Inclusion website to learn about programs on campus. Gissela Mera Lourido Assistant Director - Regional Programs Metro NY, Alumni Affairs & Development "My favorite thing about working at Cornell is collaborating with teammates and alumni volunteers to support this amazing institution and its efforts to make the world a better place." A colleague wrote to us that Gissela is "great at her job and a pleasure to work with." Thank YOU for making Cornell a great place, Gissela! Visit the Engaged Cornell website to see some of the ways Cornellians are working to make the world a better place. Kristin Kurz Events & Office Coordinator, Cornell Public Service Center Meet Kristin Kurz, Events & Office Coordinator for Cornell's Public Service Center, and staff member who has completed over 30 courses since 2015! "My favorite thing about working at Cornell is the benefits of continued education and the opportunities to grow professionally. The programs and courses I have taken have definitely influenced my trajectory here. My qualifications have increased especially taking classes outside of my comfort zone." Learn more about Cornell's professional development opportunities. Terry Horgan '17 Student Services Assistant, Information Science "People at Cornell are great to work with. Plus there are always new training opportunities to take advantage of! I also appreciate the flexible work program which allows me to travel to Boston to support Terry's Foundation for Muscular Dystrophy. https://www.terrysfoundationformd.org Visit accessibility.cornell.edu for information and resources at Cornell. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.