Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Benefits, Pay & Perks / Family Life Support / Care@Work Care@Work Finding the right kind of care for your family, pets, and your home can be challenging. Cornell now provides free unlimited Care.com membership to help you locate and arrange care -- see eligibility and details below. Note: Care.com is an open marketplace and care providers are not endorsed by Cornell. Members are expected to screen care providers, conduct background checks, and follow other safety best practices. Visit Care.com’s Hiring Recommendations and Safety Center to learn more. Email CareBenefits@care.com with questions or concerns. About ABOUT CARE.COM After creating an account, you can search Care.com or post a position for a variety of caregiving jobs such as: Babysitters and nannies Pet sitters and dog walkers Elder and adult care assistants House sitters and cleaners Tutors Care.com is home to over 11 million caregiver profiles and offers customer reviews, scheduling tools, and add-on features such as payroll management and background checks. Use the App or the mobile friendly website to simplify your Care.com experience. Need help enrolling? Watch Care.com's video on how to enroll in family care benefits. Visit the Client Resource Center for links to all of Care.com's webinars, podcasts, and demo videos, plus articles, information, and guides. FAQs FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Who is eligible for free membership to Care.com? Benefits-eligible faculty, staff, retirees, and postdoc associates Graduate and professional students How do I identify myself as a Cornell eligible participant? Use the Cornell specific portal, http://cornell.care.com to enroll. You will need your Cornell ID number (located on your student, employee, or retiree identification card) -- do not enter any zeros that may be at the beginning of your ID number. Note: Cornell University prohibits using your netID password on websites such as Care.com. Create a password that is different from your netID password. I already have a Care.com account. What do I do? Visit http://cornell.care.com and click on “Let's Get Started.” You’ll be asked whether you have an existing membership. Select “Yes” and proceed with log-in. Contact Member Care at 1-855-781-1303 ext. 1 regarding reimbursement of unused paid time on your previous membership. Is support available for those with disabilities? Care.com is improving the accessibility of its platforms. Until they are fully accessible (expected in early 2019), Cornell members may call 1-855-781-1303 ext. 2 to receive help with navigating the directory or posting a position or profile. If you are seeking a care provider for someone who has a disability or special needs, you or the Care.com representative will be able to narrow your caregiver search based on this criteria. What safety measures are in place? The Care.com Membership service is a do-it-yourself hiring marketplace where families find individual in-home caregivers and individual caregivers find jobs. Care.com conducts a background check on all caregivers. This is called “CareCheck.” A CareCheck includes social security number trace, National sex offender public website search, multi-jurisdictional criminal database search, and federal and county criminal records search. Care.com recommends families run checks of their own to make the best hiring decisions (e.g. Motor Vehicle Records). Learn about these options and more in the Care.com Safety Center. The Care.com Membership service also includes a directory of care businesses, like childcare centers. It is important to note that these are simply directory listings that are not vetted by Care.com (as noted on the business profiles). We recommend that families confirm licensing and the appropriateness of a given center for their child. Note: Cornell does not screen, manage, or endorse individuals listed on Care.com. Cornell is not responsible for and will be held harmless against, any liabilities, damages, expenses, causes of action, claims, or demands of any nature whatsoever, including any claims of negligence arising from or related in any manner to the use of Care.com. Care.com maintains its own Terms of Use which members are asked to review and agree to. How much do the providers charge? Rate of pay is negotiated between the caregiver and the hiring individual. Care.com offers a Babysitter Calculator, however rate of pay may be influenced by duties, certifications, and other factors. Cornell offers a Guide to Hiring Informal Care Providers that may be useful. I am available to provide these services. How do I create a profile? Creating a profile is easy. The minimum annual fee is $24.99, which gives caregivers a basic membership to set up their account, customize their public profile, search and apply for jobs, and respond to premium members searching for a caregiver. All Cornellians enrolled in the Care@Work benefit are considered premium members. Caregivers can opt to pay additional fees to boost their profile to rank higher and get priority job alerts. Visit Care.com to get started. Members must be at least 18 years of age and permitted to work in the United States. You will be asked if you are affiliated with a university and if so, the name. By including this information, you will appear in search results when those seeking care search by school. What happens if I leave, graduate, or am no longer benefits-eligible? Cornell regularly provides a list of eligible members to Care.com. Your free membership ends within a week of your Cornell affiliation ending. At log-in you will be informed that your free access has ended and you will be offered fee-based options for continuation with your existing account. What other resources are available? Cornell Parenting, Child Care, and Lactation Resources Child Development Council of Tompkins County Tompkins County Office for the Aging More Information MORE INFORMATION Contact Work/Life in Human Resources worklife@cornell.edu Cornell resources for parenting, adult/elder care, and self care Downloads Care.com Membership Brochure Flyer for job seekers Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.