Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Our Workplace / Diversity & Inclusion / Diversity Resources In this Section: Disability Accommodation FAQs LGBT Resources Religious Accommodation FAQs Transgender Resources Veterans and Military Personnel Diversity Resources Cornell University Diversity & Inclusion Website diversity.cornell.edu This hub for Cornell students, faculty, and staff includes information on institutional initiatives, diversity & inclusion policies, networks and organizations on campus, reporting, learning opportunities, and news and events. Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity http://diversity.cornell.edu/department-inclusion-and-workforce-diversity Provides leadership on and implements strategies to create a diverse and inclusive workplace at Cornell. owdi@cornell.edu; (607) 255-3976 Colleague Network Groups Cornell’s Colleague Network Groups Webpage The university sponsors Colleague Network Groups (CNGs) as a way for traditionally underrepresented minorities and their allies to find support, both at Cornell and beyond. The CNGs enhance our community culture by providing engaging programs for Cornell faculty and staff. For more information, contact Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity, (607) 255-3976 Community Connections Cornell University partners with member of the communities in and surrounding Ithaca and Tompkins County to support diversity and inclusion. Cornell is an active member of the Diversity Consortium of Tompkins County, which works collectively to address diversity issues. Related: Finding My Community Faculty Resources Staff Resources Training Opportunities Inclusive Excellence Academy Programs and expertise designed to develop an inclusive educational environment and workplace. Our programs incorporate interactive theater and experienced speakers that engage audiences, open eyes, and change minds.Topics addressed by programs include:Unconscious bias, disability inclusiveness, veterans in the workforce, workplace bullying, and more. More information Online Courses Take advantage of coursework available free of charge to Cornell employees through LinkedIn Learning and SkillSoft. Search for diversity to find videos about topics including: Communication and Diversity Adoption; Diversity in the Workplace; Organizational Inclusion, Planning a Diversity Initiative; Why Diversity Matters; Workplace Harassment, and more. Disabilities The Disability Information website provides detailed information and resources to promote an accessible, usable and welcoming environment for faculty, staff, students, and visitors with disabilities, including an accessibility map, event planning guide, emergency planning, and Cornell’s Inclement Weather Program. Related: Disability Accommodation Policy Disability Information for Faculty & Staff Disability Accommodation Frequently Asked Questions Accessible Meeting Checklist Who to contact regarding disability issues in employment (pdf) What can YOU do? The Campaign for Disability Employment Need help with website accessibility? Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu First Fridays of Ithaca First Fridays of Ithaca is a monthly social networking event for local, diverse professionals. First Fridays is a great opportunity to network, socialize with colleagues in a relaxed setting and meet new colleagues. First Fridays events have been held worldwide on the first Friday of every month since the late 1980s. Come and join this global phenomenon of professional camaraderie right here in Ithaca. Contact Cassandre Joseph at (607) 255-3976 or firstfridaysofithaca@cornell.edu to join the mailing list or for more information. Military Cornell’s Military Community Website In principle and in practice, Cornell University is a military-friendly institution. We recognize that the leadership that military heroes and heroines bring to the academic community is substantial, providing the university with significant competitive advantages. Contact veterans@cornell.edu Related: Veterans colleague networking group Veterans e-list (email to subscribe) Military Resources Women's Resource Center Women's Resource Center (WRC) Website The Cornell Women's Resource Center is dedicated to serving the entire Cornell community by supporting women’s education, empowerment, and advancement. The WRC works to foster a more vibrant campus community by supporting the full and active participation of female students in both their personal and educational pursuits at Cornell. University Programs & Centers Africana Studies and Research Center The Africana Studies and Research Center is comprised of nationally and internationally recognized scholars and educators, socially conscious intellectuals, and students representing each of Cornell’s undergraduate and graduate schools and colleges. American Indian Program The American Indian Program (AIP) at Cornell University provides a unique combination of educational, social and cultural opportunities to Native students studying at the University. Our first commitment is to facilitate students' academic success and address their cultural needs. Native student organizations, such as NASAC, AISES, IGSA, and NALSA allow students to develop leadership and organizational skills. The Program offers student support services, American Indian Studies courses, community outreach, and more. Asian & Asian American Center (A3C) The Asian & Asian American Center (A3C) brings together the rich diversity of Asian and Asian American student experiences to support a strong and inclusive campus community. The center nurtures positive student-to-student and group-to-group interaction to contribute to the multicultural education of all students and to the social/cultural development of leaders able to navigate a diverse and complex global society. The Asian & Asian American Center also serves as a second home for Asian, Asian American, Pacific Islander, and bi/multiracial undergraduate and graduate/professional students. Center for Intercultural Dialogue The Intercultural Center at Cornell provides a supportive environment in which all Cornell community members can share, grow, and explore. Students can discuss issues, engage in cross-cultural communication, and foster cooperation among peers. You'll find open hearts and minds in a place where the doors are always wide open. Cornell United Religious Work (CURW) Cornell United Religious Work is the university's inter-faith department, coordinating the work of 29 member religious groups. CURW offers programs of worship, study, and social life, as well as opportunities for students to engage in interfaith dialogue. Related: Schedule of religious holidays International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) The ISSO assists individual international students and foreign academic staff and their families by advising them concerning federal immigration, tax and labor regulations, and by providing counseling on personal, academic and cultural matters. Latino Studies Program The Latino Studies Program at Cornell focuses on diverse Latino communities in the United States, and engages questions about Latino histories, immigration, politics, labor, literature, art, education, language, religion, and more. The Latino Studies Program provides a wide range of programming events by more than 30 Latino student organizations. Lesbian Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) Resource Center The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Resource Center coordinates the efforts of the entire Cornell community to ensure the inclusion of all lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, and asexual (LGBTQQIA) individuals and works to eliminate discrimination based upon sexual orientation, gender identity or expression. The LGBT Resource Center affirms LGBTQQIA+ identities and lives, and provides education, outreach, advocacy, and support. The LGBT Resource Center is also the home of over 20 undergraduate and graduate student organizations and serves as a community center and gathering space for LGBTQQIA+ students, staff, and faculty. Related: Transgender Resources Office of Academic Diversity Initiatives (OADI) The OADI is focused on inclusion and achievement across the Cornell campus so students of all backgrounds can excel at their academic goals. OADI programs especially support low-income students, those who are the first in their families to achieve a college degree, and under-represented students of color. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.