Skip to main content Search: Search Search Context This Site Cornell Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Office of the Assemblies Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Home Home Get Involved Input & Issues University Hearing & Review Boards Undergraduate Students Graduate and Professional Students Staff Members Faculty Members Shared Governance Employee Assembly Staff Conversations Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Governing Documents Staff Awards Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Governing Documents Student Assembly Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Governing Documents University Assembly Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Governing Documents Board of Trustees Faculty Senate Archival Documents Elections Undergraduate Students Graduate and Professional Students Staff Members Faculty Members Constituent-Elected Trustees Tools & Resources General Resources Student Code of Conduct Funding Undergraduate Student Funding Graduate & Professional Student Forms and Accounts About The Office History of Shared Governance Legislative Process and Parliamentary Procedure Get Our Attention! Quick Links Assemblies Directory Archive Website Is [title] accepting applications? [field_active] Home Get Involved Input & Issues Employee Assembly Staff Forums Staff Feedback Forums - 2020 Summer Series Staff Feedback Forums - 2020 Summer Series As we move into a phased re-entry to campus, we recognize that it is critically important for the administration to continue dialogue with staff and gather feedback and input on matters that are central to our workplace environment. Over the summer months, the EA will hold several focused 30 to 45-minute forums and other 60-minute open forums. Forums are currently scheduled for the following (as planned, subject to change): Monday, 6/29/20 (9:15 AM) - Workforce Equity and Anti-Racism at Cornell Thursday, 7/2/20 (12:15 PM) - Returning to Campus Thursday, 7/9/20 (12:00 PM) - Open Forum Wednesday, 7/15/20 (12:15 PM) - Professional Growth Tuesday, 7/21/20 (12:15 PM) - Virtual Community Tuesday, 7/28/20 (12:00 PM) - Open Forum CANCELED - Wednesday, 8/5/20 (12:15 PM) - Campus Gatherings Wednesday, 8/12/20 (12:15 PM) - Working Remotely Tuesday, 8/18/20 (12:15 PM) - Services on Campus 06/29/2020 Workforce Equity and Anti-Racism at Cornell As the nation grapples with issues of race and racism, let's have a conversation around cultural competency Video Recording June 29, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) TXT June 29, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) PDF Questions to be discussed: How do we support one another during this time? Provide examples or experiences you have witnessed or shared. What is cultural competency and how do we achieve it? Submitted responses Panelists Mary Opperman, Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Angela Winfield, Associate Vice President for Inclusion and Workforce Diversity Avery August, Vice Provost for Academic Affairs 07/02/2020 Returning to Campus What are the current health and safety concerns of our employees and what does the university need to be mindful of it as it considers recativation of campus activities? Please click the link to join the webinar: https://cornell.zoom.us/j/96185213423?pwd=VGNBMGdYTkpXSXF4OUxOQlhmQ3A2dz09 Video Recording July 2, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) TXT July 2, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) PDF Questions to be discussed: What are you most concerned about as New York State reopens and the university begins to reactivate on-campus operations? What is working well that we should continue? Submitted responses Panelists Mary Opperman, Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer John Clarke, Physician, Cornell Health Gary Koretzky, Vice Provost for Academic Integration 07/15/2020 Professional Growth Cornell has had to make the difficult decision to put into place several budgetary restrictions over the next year. Although there are continued financial challenges ahead, professional development is important for our staff. Let's talk about how we can thrive professionally during a time of financial contraction. Please log into your CU Web Authenticated Zoom account (using Duo) and click the link to join the webinar: https://cornell.zoom.us/j/91131685976?pwd=OWF2RnF2dDhHTGFlQWkwa09NS0hoQT09 Video Recording July 15, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) TXT July 15, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) PDF Questions to be discussed: How are you thinking about your own growth and development? What support can the university provide when movement and discretionary spending is limited? What will be important for you as we look forward to the future? Submitted responses Panelists Kathy Burkgren, Associate Vice President for Organizational Development and Effectiveness Jim Sheridan, Organizational Development Specialist 07/21/2020 - Virtual Community For the next several months, and perhaps longer, many employees will continue to work remotely. How can we create a sense of connection with the university and keep a feel of community while we're physiclaly more isolated? Please log into your CU Web Authenticated Zoom account (using Duo) and click the link to join the webinar: https://cornell.zoom.us/j/91131685976?pwd=OWF2RnF2dDhHTGFlQWkwa09NS0hoQT09 Video Recording July 21, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) TXT July 21, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) PDF Questions to be discussed: What are you most concerned about as some of us are working remotely and others are on campus? What has been working well throughout the current situation that we should continue? What ideas and suggestions do you have to improve our sense of community during this time? Submitted responses Panelists Mary Opperman, Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Linda Croll Howell, Director for Human Resource Analytics Cassandre Pierre Joseph, Director of Workforce Engagement Susan Fussell, Professor, Information Sciences; Professor, Communication CANCELED - 08/05/2020 Campus Gatherings Events and programming have always been an important part of the Cornell workplace. Given the restrictions of social distancing, how can we create opportunities to "gather" that will help us feel more connected and avoid isolation? Please log into your CU Web Authenticated Zoom account (using Duo) and click the link to join the webinar: https://cornell.zoom.us/j/91131685976?pwd=OWF2RnF2dDhHTGFlQWkwa09NS0hoQT09 Questions to be discussed: What do you want us to know about creating a sense of community through gathering? What have you found most positive about virtual gathering that you think should continue? What advice or ideas do you have to increase the sense of community during this time? Panelists Mary Opperman, Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Michelle Artibee, Director of Workforce Wellbeing Oliver Goodrich, Associate Dean of Spirituality and Meaning Making, Director of Cornell United Religious Work Matt Carcella, Director, Diversity & U.S. Regional Alumni Engagement 08/12/2020 Working Remotely As the Univerrsity plans for the eventual reactivation of on-campus activities in Ithaca, Geneva and New York City, what are our employees thinking about as it pertains to remote working? Please log into your CU Web Authenticated Zoom account (using Duo) and click the link to join the webinar: https://cornell.zoom.us/j/91131685976?pwd=OWF2RnF2dDhHTGFlQWkwa09NS0hoQT09 Video Recording August 12, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) TXT August 12, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) PDF Questions to be discussed: What would your ideal work situation resemble, if you had the option of continuing to work remotely in some/all capacity? How would commuting or not commuting play into your ideal scenario? What would you like us to know and consider related to working remotely? Submitted responses Panelists Mary Opperman, Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Linda Croll Howell, Director for Human Resource Analytics Brad Bell, Director, Center for Advanced Human Resource Studies 08/18/2020 Services on Campus There are many campus services which were halted or paused during the pandemic quarantine. Many staff rely on these services as necessities and enhancements to a healthy work-life balance. Please log into your CU Web Authenticated Zoom account (using Duo) and click the link to join the webinar: https://cornell.zoom.us/j/91131685976?pwd=OWF2RnF2dDhHTGFlQWkwa09NS0hoQT09 Video Recording August 18, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) TXT August 18, 2020 Closed Caption Transcription (formatted) PDF Questions to be discussed: As the campus begins to reactivate, and given the continued financial challenges, how should the university prioritize the availability of fitness, parking, dining, TCAT, child care, etc.? What are some alternative solutions you might have for some of these services? (Be creative! For example, "If ample free parking was available, I could walk to and from my office to get in some steps and save some money", or "I've never really explored car-pooling or the Ride-Share options, but I certainly could.", etc.) What would be important for you as we look forward to the future? Submitted responses Panelists Mary Opperman, Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Rick Burgess, Vice President for Facilities and Campus Services Pat Wynn, Assistant Vice President for Student and Campus Life Bridgette Brady, Senior Director of Transportation and Mail Services Kerry Howell, Director, Cornell University Wellness Program Get Involved Input & Issues University Hearing & Review Boards Undergraduate Students Graduate and Professional Students Staff Members Faculty Members Shared Governance Employee Assembly Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Student Assembly University Assembly Board of Trustees Faculty Senate Archival Documents Elections Undergraduate Students Graduate and Professional Students Staff Members Faculty Members Constituent-Elected Trustees Tools & Resources General Resources Student Code of Conduct Funding About The Office History of Shared Governance Legislative Process and Parliamentary Procedure Get Our Attention! Quick Links Assemblies Directory Archive Website © 2022 Cornell University | Managed by the Office of the Assemblies |109 Day Hall | 607-255-3715 | Staff Login | Sitemap | Site Info | Web Accessibility Assistance