Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Career Development / Performance / Leadership Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success As a leader, I: Interact with integrity People are respected and engaged. Convey respect and professionalism in interactions. Seek to understand and then to be understood. Put others at ease, and respond calmly even in difficult situations. Be honest and trustworthy; have a high standard of personal conduct. Acknowledge your mistakes and errors, take timely corrective action, including an apology if appropriate. Demonstrate empathy and compassion for others. Give, ask for and act on feedback. Manage conflict, taking uncomfortable or unpopular action when necessary. Create an open and inclusive environment So people feel like they belong. Create an environment of trust. Demonstrate respect for all individuals. Actively invite new ideas, alternatives and perspectives. Integrate workplace flexibility as a part of a results oriented work culture. Speak up and take action if others are being excluded or treated inappropriately. Acknowledge the support and contributions of every person. Inspire and articulate a shared vision and mission People know how their work aligns with university and team goals. Understand the University’s strategic goals and deliver aligned outcomes. Be adaptable, embrace, promote and implement change. Deliver results today with a sustainable future in mind. Demonstrate foresight and imagination to see possibilities, opportunities and trends. Model stewardship within the organization and University. Monitor and re-evaluate decisions, priorities and plans in order to achieve a vision. Communicate clearly and consistently So people are informed and heard. Listen first. Share important information and decisions in a timely manner. Ensure people have a clear understanding of the expectations and desired result. Convey thoughts clearly, verbally and when writing. Adapt messaging to audience. Summarize other points of view to confirm understanding. Empower staff to act and take initiative People are supported and confident in taking ownership of their work and results. Encourage anticipatory thinking to identify challenges and opportunities early. Actively support others in taking initiative and responsible risks to innovate. Use mistakes as opportunities for learning. Balance the need to seek input and the need to take action. Provide clear directions and expectations that will enable others to make sound decisions. Deliver results on time and within budget. Display sound judgment in problem solving People proactively seek solutions to deliver results. Bring stakeholders together to create alignment, shared understanding and action. Ask insightful and probing questions. Use data and metrics to provide informed and thoughtful analyses. Consider impact on others outside your immediate area. Synthesize complex information. Anticipate obstacles and generate alternatives. Am a great coach People understand their current role and career options. Make work challenging, meaningful and engaging for others. Identify and focus on the most significant priorities, setting achievable goals, milestones and deadlines. Provide others with productive and timely feedback. Delegate and provide good exposure for team members. Develop people and support their growth and mobility. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.