Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Our Workplace / Flexible Work / Flexible Work Request Flexible Work Request The Request Process Exploring Options Employees are encouraged to evaluate what flexible work options align with work responsibilities, work style, overall performance, and the goals of the department. Discuss With Manager Then, the employee discusses their proposed arrangement with their supervisor. During this discussion, speak about: Various types of flexibility and ways of structuring it to meet both individual and department needs Timing of the proposed changes What positive outcomes the employee expects because of the arrangement How the change may impact those they serve, colleagues, and/or their supervisor and possible solutions to any negative impacts How long the agreement is needed for, approved for (if a decision is reached), and a reevaluation date Remote Work Outside of New York State Special considerations pertain to situations where remote work is being considered outside of New York State. Such arrangements must be discussed with the HR Representative at the beginning of the consideration processes. Documenting an Agreement If an agreement is reached, the employee submits a formal request using Workday for supervisor approval and documentation. This process replaces sample agreement forms (PDF) that were commonly used prior to May 2022. FAQs & Workday Guidance Managing Flexible Work Arrangements Supervisors are expected to thoughtfully review flexible work proposals by evaluating the individual’s performance, responsibilities, and work style. When issues related to workplace flexibility arise, the supervisor should address the issues promptly. See Tips for Supervisors for more guidance on managing workplace flexibility or contact Work/Life. Ending Flexible Work Arrangements Depending on the situation that has caused an arrangement to end, the supervisor may benefit from consulting with the local HR representative for guidance. When a flexible work arrangement ends, the supervisor or employee must end the arrangement in Workday. Equipment provided to an employee for the purposes of remote work should be returned immediately to the department. Additional steps may need to be taken, dependent upon the situation and departmental requirements. Occasional Use Flexibility Informal, occasional use flexibility does not require formal tracking or documentation. See Occasional Use Flexibility for best practices. Hourly (non-exempt) Employees Flexible work arrangements can have an impact on overtime. Hourly employees and their managers should review this guidance prior to reaching an agreement. Flexible Work Arrangement Tips for Employees Considering new ways of performing or structuring work can be intimidating. It can also be uncomfortable for an employee to request a discussion with their supervisor on the topic of workplace flexibility. The resources available here are intended to help employees be well informed about the intricacies of flexible work and how to put together a thoughtful proposal. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.