Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Benefits, Pay & Perks / Family Life Support / Parenting In this Section: Breastfeeding Top 10 Baby Tips Parenting Workshops Parenting E-lists Child Care Center Informal Care Guide Bring A Child to Work Day Conference Child Care Planning Guidelines Family Activities Around Ithaca Fertility Support Group Quick Links Cornell Parenting E-News Parenting Workshops Cornell Child Care Center CARE Fund Parenting Visit the Resources for Parenting & Caregiving During COVID-19 page for additional details and up-to-date information about programs and services. If you are dealing with issues concerning pregnancy, childcare, breastfeeding, adoption, LGBT parenting, or parenting children with special needs, there are many supportive resources available to you and your family at Cornell. Many family-friendly activities are offered on campus and financial help programs are also available. Students with children should also visit the Cornell Students with Children website for additional resources. Pregnancy / Infant Care Cornell Reproductive Health Program: Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) work to ensure that task duties do not result in unsafe exposures to reproductive hazards. EHS professionals can review your work areas to evaluate potential chemical, biological, and physical exposures and provide recommendations to ensure potential exposures do not pose a reproductive risk. Female and male employees and students who are contemplating having children, pregnant, or nursing may schedule a reproductive health evaluation of their work and research areas. Top 10 Tips for Having a Baby at Cornell Breastfeeding Support: Information on benefits, locations of Mothers’ Rooms, guidelines for employees and supervisors, and other support resources. Preparing for Baby Series: Workshops offered to Cornellians and their partners on topics related to prenatal and postpartum care as well as breastfeeding and making connections with other Cornell parents. Adoption Adoption Assistance Program: Reimburses eligible employees for qualified adoption expenses. Child Care Cornell Child Care Center: offers a unique, high-quality childcare program on campus to serve Cornell’s diverse families. Care.com Membership: Locate caregivers for your children, aging or disabled adults/elders, pets, your home, and more with a free Cornell-sponsored Care.com membership. Locating Informal Care: A useful guide for finding and working with babysitters. Conference Child Care: This planning guideline helps event planners who want to offer child care options to attendees. Back-Up Child Care: Cornell employees are eligible for 10 days of backup childcare per year at the Cornell Child Care Center. Work/Life Consultant: Consultative assistance is available to Cornell staff, faculty, retirees, and students on topics related to dependent care, such as locating providers, nannies and babysitters, parenting children with special needs, and more. Financial Assistance Child Care Grant Program: Cornell has committed to helping faculty and staff access quality care by subsidizing its cost. Dependent Care Reimbursement Account: This benefit helps you reduce your out-of-pocket expenses by taking advantage of a federal law that gives you an immediate tax break when paying for dependent care services covered under the program. Faculty Dependent Care Travel Fund: Offers tenure track and tenured faculty up to $1,000 ($1,500 for dependent children with special needs) per academic year in direct expenses for dependent-care expenses incurred while traveling to attend professional meetings, conferences, workshops, and professional development opportunities. Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship: Provides the children of eligible Cornell employees a partial scholarship for study at Cornell or other accredited institutions. Travel Assistance to NYC for Medical and Other Emergencies: The Emergency CARE Fund provides round-trip bus tickets on the Campus-to-Campus Bus to current employees. Programs for School-aged Children Local Schools School Closing e-List (type “join” in the subject line): Receive notification of weather-related or unscheduled school closures. Summer Camps: Cornell hosts two summer day camp programs CAU Youth Program: Infants through teens; a variety of activities. Cornell Sports Camps: Sports activities for boys and girls ages 4-19. Tomkins County Youth Bureau Summer Camp Guide: Guide to summer youth programs/camps. Family-Friendly Events & Activities Family Activities Around Ithaca Life in Ithaca: The Cornell website features links to activities for all ages, including theaters, museums, festivals, science centers, and natural attractions in the Ithaca area. Bring A Child To Work Day: Annual event provides activities for children to explore interests and careers and see what parents, relatives, and/or friends do in their work at Cornell. Cornell Parent E-News: Sign up to receive a newsletter about Cornell-sponsored events, workshops, and activities that are parenting-related or family-friendly to attend. Insectapalooza: Come see the bizarre, bad, and beneficial of the insect world! College of Veterinary Medicine Open House: Get a closer look at veterinary medicine! Special Needs Resources for Children With Special Needs : (pdf) listing of numerous local services available. Special Needs e-List (type “join” in the subject line): Connect with other Cornell families with special needs. Consultation & Referrals Flexible Work Consultations: (worklife@cornell.edu) Consultative assistance is available to help employees in considering flexible work options and how to develop a proposal for supervisor review. This may be of special interest to employees who are preparing for or have children. Work/Life Consultant: (sdb39@cornell.edu) Consultative assistance is available to Cornell staff, faculty, retirees, and students on topics related to dependent care, such as locating providers, nannies and babysitters, parenting children with special needs, and more. Parenting Resources Workshops: Programs offered to assist with tools and strategies related to pregnancy, parenting various ages of children, and life transitions. Family Life E-Lists (type “join” in the subject line): Subscribe to email lists geared for Cornell parents (current & prospective), nursing mothers, LGBT families, families with children with special needs, and more. Parental Leave Parental Leave Procedures: Policy details and procedures for staff members. Tenure Clock-Stop for Academics: The clock is automatically stopped for pre-tenure faculty. View the policy for specific guidance. Life Insurance: Information about life insurance benefits available to Cornell staff and faculty. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.