Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Career Development / Performance / Skills for Success Skills for Success Download the pdf As a member of the Cornell Community I . . . Interact with integrity So people are respected and engaged. Be honest and trustworthy, demonstrate high standards of personal conduct. Have a positive attitude. Involve others as appropriate when outcomes impact their work. Be diplomatic in your interactions with customers and stakeholders. Admit your mistakes and learn from them. Acknowledge the support and contributions of others. Contribute positively to an inclusive environment So people feel like they belong. Communicate across difference to create a collaborative, collegial, and caring community. Be cooperative, open and welcoming to all. Show respect, compassion and empathy for others, even in difficult situations. Engage and support others regardless of background or perspective. Speak up when others are being excluded or treated inappropriately. Actively support work-life integration. Support the organization’s shared vision and mission I am trusted to move university and team goals forward. Show commitment to unit and university goals in delivering results. Anticipate, embrace, promote and implement change. Balance short-term gains with long-term vision. Be open and receptive to new information, ideas and approaches. Be adaptable, modify your preferred way of doing things when it benefits the whole. Support ideas, solutions and changes to processes to ensure high quality outcomes. Communicate clearly and consistently So people are informed and heard. Seek to understand and then to be understood. Demonstrate active listening skills. Express thoughts clearly, both verbally and in writing. Share knowledge and information. Give, receive and act upon helpful and timely feedback. Act and take initiative I take ownership of my work and results. Adopt a culture of sustainability and efficiency. Strive to develop and implement best practices. Take responsible risks to innovate seeking advancements in products, processes, services, technologies or ideas. Identify opportunities in challenges and show initiative. Reach out in a timely and responsive manner to resolve problems and conflicts. Anticipate and adapt to changing priorities and additional demands. Display sound judgment in problem solving People seek me out to find solutions to deliver results. Exercise sound judgment to make decisions and meet deliverables. Assess environmental, economic, compliance and social impacts in decision-making. Demonstrate innovative, creative and informed risk taking. Apply analytical thinking, data and metrics to synthesize complex information. Anticipate obstacles and generate alternatives. Negotiate to find and orchestrate win-win solutions. Proactively seek self-development and coaching opportunities People see my commitment and passion to continuously develop. Be self-aware. Work to continuously learn and improve. Take measures to ensure personal well-being and balance. Seek and act upon performance feedback. Apply learning to evolving assignments. Actively manage your career. Encourage others to develop themselves. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.