Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Our Workplace / About HR / HR Vision and Priorities HR Pillars and Priorities We're focused on creating an ideal workplace for our employees - and here's how we're doing it. Our Vision The best staff and faculty in the world choose Cornell. Our Mission To collectively support an environment of inclusive excellence in scholarship where students, staff and faculty of Cornell learn, work and live as a community. Our HR Community Structure The HR Community includes members from both the centralized Division of the Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, and the Human Resources departments dedicated to the colleges and units. This dual organizational structure provides our HR Community with a vast breadth 0f information about our workforce, and enables us to share knowledge and expertise to make decisions and implement initiatives that are in the best interest of our large, varied, population. Our Pillars, Priorities, and Projects Our Human Resources work is anchored by four pillars – Belonging, Effectiveness, Stewardship, and Talent – which we recognize as central to an ideal workplace for our employees. These pillars in turn, serve as the cornerstone for our annual priorities and projects. PILLAR ONE Increase the genuine sense of belonging of employees and retirees to Cornell We are committed to embedding "One Cornell" in our workforce culture, and creating a workplace that allows all of us to be our best, most authentic, self. "Belonging" priorities and projects Enhance the employee experience during onboarding and orientation Welcoming and Orienting Employees to Cornell: A Supervisors Guide : a customizable tool to walk supervisors through the most common needs of a new employee during their first 120 days. Welcome Center Website: a timeline-based guide to resources for new employees, integrated with Workday onboarding dashboard. New Hire Decision/Enrollment Guide: a step-by-step introduction to benefits options, decision-making support, and enrollment instructions. Streamlining of new hire messages: a reduction in frequency and length of communications to help new hires feel less overwhelmed. Personalized Onboarding Dashboard in Workday (sample): Centralized hub for new hire actions and onboarding, customized to employee status and integrated with content housed in the Welcome website. (View onboarding dashboard by clicking the cog icon (configure applications) in upper right of Workday landing dashboard; add "Onboarding" as an optional worklet.) In discovery: An employee app Build a culture of belonging that supports our diverse workforce and champions inclusion for all members of our community Developed a 5-year strategic plan for increasing staff diversity and inclusion. Created the Disability is Diversity campaign to educate about the disability experience, build a community of disability allies, develop a culture in which individuals are empowered to speak out, and move our campus forward toward greater accessibility for all. Doubled the overall response rate by faculty, academics, staff and union employees for the spring 2018 voluntary disability self-Identification survey. Results will provide a better picture of the diversity of our workforce and help to ensure that individuals with disabilities are supported and represented throughout the University. Established a centralized disability accommodations fund for faculty, staff and guest speakers/scholars invited to campus as of July 2018. Relaunched the Accessible Red Runner service to provide certain work and employment-related campus transportation effective as of July 2018. Revamped the Inclusive Excellence Academy to provide workshops that focus on the actions participants can immediately implement in their unit or department that positively affect diversity, inclusion, and a genuine sense of belonging, including a podcast and biannual summit. In development: Creating targeted recruitment plans for positions in key job families to increase diversity within the workforce. In discovery: Conducting an inclusivity assessment to determine and improve the inclusivity of HR functional areas. In discovery: Strengthening the structure and enhancing development opportunities offered through the colleague network groups. Support employees in all aspects of their wellbeing Added a remote attendance option for nearly all Work/Life events and workshops. Developed targeted resources and programming to address silent and/or prolific issues impacting our staff and faculty, i.e., domestic violence, chronic tiredness and sleep issues. Added Care@Work, Care.com's platform for employers, to the benefits program for faculty, staff, retirees and graduate students. Developed online presentation aligning university resources to the dimensions of wellbeing and programming to educate employees on the importance of care for the whole self. Promote opportunities for employees and retirees to engage Implemented a “hiring experience” section on the Acclimation Survey; results have improved our understanding of the importance of more communication during hiring and impact of already knowing someone in an employee's sense of belonging. Created a networking and support group for relocated new hires. Developed a retiree exit survey; results have highlighted gender differences in employees' feelings of financial “preparedness” for retirement. Piloted a series of new “belongingness” survey items with Alumni Affairs and Development. Launched an improved staff exit survey PILLAR TWO Enhance effectiveness of systems, technology, policies, procedures, and communications We are committed to continuous improvement and thinking big in order to shrink roadblocks and make life easier for our employees. "Effectiveness" priorities and projects Advance policies improvements and efficiencies Improved priority policies to simplify and clarify content, and reduce administrative burden. Updated policies include: guidelines for pay practices during Inclement Weather; and several areas under Time Away from Work i.e., standardized the method for compensating holiday pay, simplified the formula for stopping and starting accruals while on paid leave, incorporated NYS Paid Family Leave law and aligned other aspects of Family and Medical Leaves for Staff with the federal FMLA In development: identification and prioritization of additional policies Make it easy for employees to find and share information through improved communication strategies and vehicles Implemented website improvements to hr.cornell.edu including a streamlined menu structure for easier navigation. Completed audit of web pages and documents for compliance with WCAG 2.0 AA; several significant updates have been implemented, with more continuing. Rebranded Working@Cornell Facebook presence to appeal to employees throughout the lifecycle at Cornell. In development: strategic social media plan to engage current and prospective employees. Leverage technology solutions, and expand Workday offerings Increased security through mandatory Two-Step Login for all areas of Workday. Implemented the new Workday time-and-attendance system for ~12,000 nonexempt, biweekly staff and student employees. Launch of three new user-based dashboards as part of the ongoing effort to improve our employees’ experience. PILLAR THREE Serve as responsible stewards of the university’s resources We are committed to exercising fiduciary responsibility in our service-centered environment. "Stewardship" priorities and projects Review benefit programs and services for increased effectiveness and efficiencies Completed a redesign of Cornell/vendor information for both Open Enrollment and Option Transfer for 2018, including new comprehensive guides that provided employees with decision worksheets and step-by-step instructions for completing their enrollments. Completed a review of health and other benefit plans for the usage of gender terminology and to compare coverage and support for LGBTQIA+ faculty and staff. Findings were presented to the Employee Assembly. Designed and implemented Cornell’s policy under the New York Paid Family Leave Act (NYPFL) providing a higher-level of compensated leave for staff to bond for a newborn or newly adopted child, or to care for a family member with a serious health condition. Completed negotiation and renewal of Cornell/Aetna health plans for 2018, with a focus on plan enhancement (where possible) and mitigating cost increases to both staff and Cornell. Despite continued growth in medical and Rx claims, negotiated to maintain current level of plan design (no reductions) and to need to pass on only a modest increase in staff contributions Implemented a new benefits service model that offers employees enhanced counseling on health and retirement, as well as additional access to resources. In development: re-constitution of a group of approximately 15 vendors, service providers and Cornell groups to review and assist Cornell staff and Ithaca area community with health-related issues. The group will be tasked with determining 3-5 high health needs areas per year to focus a concerted effort on education, prevention, treatment, and providing local and national resources. In development: overall review and re-structuring/re-design of health plan information related to benefits. PILLAR FOUR Foster individual and organizational advancement through talent recruitment, development, and recognition strategies We are committed to the career and overall satisfaction of our workforce, through opportunities for growth, recognition, and engagement. "Talent" priorities and projects Promote continual development and growth as a way for employees to unleash their full potential Developed and refreshed resources and tools to support employees as they navigate their career path, including a Workday portal for formal and informal experiential development opportunities; a networking/mentoring tool, Cornell Colleague Connections, that allows employees to connect with peers at the University; and the alignment of technical competencies with positions in Career Navigator. Implemented a strategic, multi-channel approach to talent management that harnesses the power of career management, succession planning, and college/unit talent leads to become a more agile, innovative organization. Launched the Opportunity Graph in Workday, a new feature that helps employees explore career possibilities matched to job openings at Cornell. Created Supervising@Cornell, an online supervisory training program available free of charge to all Cornell employees. Support employees in finding meaning and fulfillment in their work by connecting responsibilities and actions to the university mission and goals In development: expansion of the Workday profile to help an employee better understand how their individual skills, knowledge, and job responsibilities impact the university as a whole. In development: college/unit mission statements that better align working at Cornell with the university mission. Embed recognition and reward into our university culture so employees feel valued for their contributions Launched a real time peer-to-peer recognition system that allows employees to thank colleagues across campus, and empowers managers to reward individual achievements throughout the year. Revamped a robust and inclusive employee award program that shares excitement for the achievements of staff who go above and beyond to create a culture of belonging at Cornell. Revitalize our dual career and engagement services to address challenges of changing family structures and priorities Enhanced coordination with the Offices of the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs and Faculty Development and Diversity. Provide enhanced communications and monthly updates to the college and unit leadership; Vice Presidents, Deans, Chairs and HR Directors regarding the spouse/partner’s job search and networking activities. A comprehensive, monthly summary regarding program participants is shared with Dual Career Program leadership. Tailoring the Engagement Program to meet the needs and interests of each new hire in the program. In development: A campus working group will be formed to formalize a best practice service approach for the dualcareer spouse/partner. In development: Joint Dual Career/Engagement Program Reception Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.