Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Benefits, Pay & Perks / Enrollment / Required Documentation Documentation Required for Health, Dental, and Vision Plan Enrollment Enrollment in ENDOWED Health, Dental, and Vision Plans In addition to completing the applicable endowed health, dental, and/or vision enrollment in Workday (or enrollment form(s) if applicable), you must provide documents to support your dependent’s eligibility for coverage as outlined below. Send the endowed health, dental, and/or vision enrollment form(s) (if applicable) and supporting documentation to HR Services and Transitions Center (HRSTC), 395 Pine Tree Road, East Hill Office Building, Suite 130, Ithaca, New York 14850. Important: the IRS requires employers to provide the Social Security Number (SSN) for employees and dependents who enroll in their health care plans as part of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) SSN reporting regulations. Be sure to enter the SSN for you and your family members in Workday if you decide to enroll in an endowed health plan. Note: foreign documentation accepted if translated by the employee (e.g., marriage certification, birth certificate, divorce decree and death notice). Documentation Requirements for Endowed Employees To enroll a spouse, you must provide: Copy of marriage certificate To enroll a domestic partner, you must provide: Statement of Domestic Partnership (https://hr.cornell.edu/benefits/partnership_end_statement.pdf) or “Affidavit of Domestic Partnership” from the City of Ithaca, NY or other municipality authorized by state law to recognize domestic partner status. To enroll natural, adopted or stepchildren in the endowed health plan, you must provide: Copy of birth certificate or visa and/or passport Court order confirming custody (adopted child) NOTE: When adding a natural or stepchild to your endowed health, dental, and/or vision plan, documentation is required to establish paternity when a father is not married to a child’s mother and the father’s name is not listed on the child’s birth certificate: in this case, the father is required to produce one of the following documents in order to add the child to endowed health and/or dental plan coverage: The child’s birth certificate noting his status as the father; A court order noting that his status as the father has been adjudicated by a court; A voluntary acknowledgment of Paternity that has been executed and filed with the County Registrar of the county in which the child was born (all states have a paternity acknowledgment process; if the child was born in another state, the enrollee may produce a filed Voluntary Acknowledgment of the Paternity from the other state.) If an employee cannot or does not produce adequate documentation to establish that he is the child’s father, he can still add the child as a dependent as an “other child.” To enroll “Other” children, you must provide: Copy of birth certificate (health plan only) Required residence and support (a completed Endowed Health and Dental Plan Tax Dependent Affidavit form). Contact HRSTC at (607) 255-3936 or via email at hrservices@cornell.edu to request this form. Enrollment in (CONTRACT COLLEGE) the NYSHIP Health (Empire Plan or HMO) and/or Dental Plans In addition to completing the PS-404 enrollment form, you must provide written documents to support your and/or your dependent’s eligibility for coverage. Send the PS-404 enrollment and supporting documentation to HR Services and Transitions Center (HRSTC), 395 Pine Tree Road, East Hill Office Building, Suite 130, Ithaca, New York 14850. Documentation Requirements for Contract College Employees To enroll an employee, NYS requires: Copy of birth certificate (Copy of visa and/or passport is accepted for non-US citizens or US citizens born abroad if birth certificate is not available) Copy of Social Security card or ITIN (Individual Taxpayer Identification Number) To enroll a spouse, NYS requires: Copy of birth certificate (Copy of visa and/or passport is accepted for non-US citizens or US citizens born abroad if birth certificate is not available) Copy of marriage certificate, and If marriage took place over one year ago, you will need to provide proof of current joint ownership/joint financial obligation such as prior year joint tax return. If tax return is not provided, a copy of current bank statement, mortgage statement or homeowner’s policy may be provided. This must be dated within the current year. To enroll a domestic partner, NYS requires: Copy of birth certificate (Copy of visa and/or passport is accepted for non-US citizens or US citizens born abroad if birth certificate is not available). Completed forms in the Domestic Partner Series (PS-425) with acceptable proofs as required in the application. To enroll natural, adopted or stepchildren, NYS requires: Copy of birth certificate required. If adding a newborn, the footprint page from the hospital may be used temporarily to enroll the child. If footprints are provided for a newborn, a copy of the birth certificate must be submitted as soon as available. If applicable, proof of disability (a completed PS-451 – Statement of Disability). Contact HRSTC at (607) 255-3936 or via email at hrservices@cornell.edu to request this form. NOTE: When adding a natural or stepchild to your plan, the New York State Department of Civil Service requires documentation to establish paternity when a father is not married to a child’s mother and the father’s name is not listed on the child’s birth certificate: in this case, the father is required to produce one of the following documents in order to add the child to NYSHIP coverage: The child’s birth certificate noting his status as the father; A court order noting that his status as the father has been adjudicated by a court; A voluntary acknowledgment of Paternity that has been executed and filed with the County Registrar of the county in which the child was born (all states have a paternity acknowledgment process; if the child was born in another state, the enrollee may produce a filed Voluntary Acknowledgment of the Paternity from the other state.) If an employee cannot or does not produce adequate documentation to establish that he is the child’s father, he can still add the child as a NYSHIP dependent as an “other child.” To enroll “Other” children, NYS requires: Copy of birth certificate required. If adding a newborn, the footprint page from the hospital may be used temporarily to enroll the child. If footprints are provided for a newborn, a copy of the birth certificate must be submitted as soon as available. If applicable, proof of disability (a completed PS-451 – Statement of Disability). Contact HRSTC at (607) 255-3936 or via email at hrservices@cornell.edu to request this form. Required residence and support (a completed PS-457 Statement of Dependence). Contact HRSTC at (607) 255-3936 or via email at hrservices@cornell.edu to request this form. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.