View this email in your browser March 22, 2022 Update - View past editions March is Women's History Month Women’s History Month celebrations are held to honor the contributions of women in America and across the world. Check out Cornell’s DEI Celebrations Page for Zoom backgrounds and other celebration resources. Local resources and events: Visit The History Center's webpage for activities, collections and exhibits Explore Harriet Tubman’s Lantern Trail in Auburn in honor of her 200th birthday Watch Women’s History in the Finger Lakes National Forest Participate in Weill Cornell Medicine's Racial & Social Justice Book Club: "Picture a Scientist": March 29, 5:15pm. Discussion of the documentary, leading women scientists discuss the inequalities they have faced as they set out to create a new formula to make STEM open to all. Read Books to Celebrate Women’s History Month (Cornell University Press) 8 Ways to Celebrate Women’s History Month (Tour Cayuga) "National Nutrition Month Mondays" class (CCE Tompkins) March 28, 1pm. Learn about the history of changes to nutrition guidelines as well as tips and tricks about selecting foods for a healthy lifestyle. Call 607-272-2292 to sign up. (Un)Learning Ideals: Reframing Our Fitness & Wellness Journeys March 28, 2pm. Join this candid conversation with Cornell and community experts about fitness industry messaging, our personal and cultural influences, and how to acknowledge where your wellness journey begins. Know Your Numbers (CNY Health Hub) March 31, 12pm. This interactive webinar will look at the various numbers associated with health. Blood pressure, blood sugar, heart rate, BMI, and waist circumference are all examples of health indicators. New hotline [created by kindergarteners] gives options for joy (NPR) If you are feeling frustrated, angry, or just need a pep talk, call this fun, new hotline, and you'll get encouraging words from a resilient group of youngsters! Call 707-998-8410 for a boost. 7 Strategies to help you live with uncertainty (Ideas.Ted.com) What can we do when everything seems out of control? Rather than resist or avoid these feelings, we can learn to accept ambiguity, take care of ourselves, and figure out the kind of life we most want to lead. Published Oct. 2020, this piece remains highly relevant. Community Café Conversations (CCE Tompkins) March 29, 11:30am. Tompkins Families! invites you to a virtual Community Café about creating a sense of belonging in community through conversation and connection. Spirit of Tompkins Seeks Participants Spirit of Tompkins is a collaboration between Ithaca’s Discovery Trail, the Town of Ithaca, and photographer Robyn Wishna, and aims to capture hundreds of portraits and stories from individuals and groups living or working in Tompkins County. Individuals and groups living or working in Tompkins County (outside of the City of Ithaca) are invited to join. Save the Date! 3rd Annual Inclusive Excellence Summit April 25-29. The Inclusive Excellence Summit is a three-day event that will provide an opportunity for staff and faculty to explore new ways to engage and promote diversity, inclusion, and belonging in the workplace. March 21-25 is National LGBTQ Health Awareness Week and this year's theme is Live Out Loud, to promote talking openly about LGBTQ+ health issues. Join the Proud Partner Twitter Chat on March 23 at 1pm to explore important questions on LGBTQ Health. Both/And: A Life in Many Worlds - A Conversation with Huma Abedin March 22, 7pm. Huma Abedin has spent her entire career in public service and national politics, beginning as an intern in First Lady Hillary Clinton’s office in 1996. Sponsored by the Cornell Institute of Politics and Global Affairs. This Week at Cornell Cinema Cornell Cinema offers a wide array of films, from classic to commercial, in the historic Willard Straight Theatre, for the lowest ticket & popcorn prices in town! Showing this week: The City Without Jews (1924), a prescient silent satire featuring live music by acclaimed klezmer violinist Alicia Svigals & silent film pianist Donald Sosin & Hayao Miyazaki’s animated feature, Spirited Away (2002). Video recordings of recent events sponsored by the Cornell Institute of Politics and Global Affairs: The Crisis in Ukraine: A conversation with Amb. Bill Taylor Dispatch from Ukraine: Human Rights and Conflict in the Eastern Regions The Starting Line (TIAA for Cornell employees) April 5, 12pm. Saving for retirement - learn how to get started. First-Time Homebuyer Seminar (Tompkins Trust Company) April 6, 6pm. Learn about special programs for first-time homebuyers. 10 Tips to Get the Most out of a Tank of Gas (Consumer Reports) Driving strategies and techniques to maximize your fuel economy and ease the squeeze on your wallet. Cornell Young Professionals Colleague Network Group (YPCNG) Inspiring Leaders Series March 21, 12pm. Join YPCNG for an Inspiring Leader Series talk with Meng-Wei Hsu, MBA, General Manager for Retail Operations, Cornell Dining - Campus Life Enterprise Services. Big Red Toastmasters March 25, 9am. Via Zoom - Join for an hour of fun practicing public speaking and leadership skills. Guests are welcome! Wellbeing@Work Interview Series: Occupational Dimension In this episode, hear from Ari Mack, Cornell Organizational Development Consultant. Short on time? Watch a 5-minute clip where Ari talks with the hosts about how to stay energized in the workplace. Verdant Views: Bittersweet Chocolate – Problems in the Cacao Sector March 22, 3pm. The truth about your chocolate bar may be more bitter than sweet. Join Cornell Garden Ambassadors as they take over this episode of Verdant Views to discuss the ethics of global chocolate production. Growing Gourds, Zoom Class (CCE Tompkins) March 29, 6pm. Participants in this workshop will learn all about growing gourds, from where to get seed and how to germinate, to trellising and pollinating, and harvesting and drying. Cornell Red-Tailed Haw Cam (Lab of Ornithology) The Cornell Lab Bird Cams let viewers from all over the world observe the lives of birds we don't often see, including hawks on the Ithaca campus. The hawks currently have eggs in the nest - tune in to watch them hatch and grow! Navigating Other People's Emotions Through the Cornell SkillSoft platform, learn how to recognize emotional awareness in, actively listen to, and empathize with others by developing emotional intelligence (also known as EQ). What the *Bleep* Does it Mean to Bring Your Whole Self to Work? (Limeade) March 29, 1pm. In this webcast, we’ll unpack the intentions within “bring your whole self to work” to bring greater clarity to what it means. Discover that when you create a culture and experience that is safe and worthy, employees will show up more “whole” and offer their best contributions. Nine Tips for Giving Better Feedback (Greater Good Berkeley) Giving and receiving feedback at work can be challenging. but the ability to give and receive appropriate feedback is key to your development, as well as the development of your team or organization. Giving to help in Ukraine? Get your money where you mean it to go (Federal Trade Commission) When scammers spot a crisis in the world, they are there to take advantage. Take a moment to make sure your generosity really benefits the people and groups you intend. About the Wellbeing Update: Information provided by Cornell Work/Life, Cornell Wellness, and the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program about campus and community resources, programs, and events. Explore past editions or email wellbeing@cornell.edu to ask questions or suggest a resource. Published roughly every other week. Information shared does not indicate Cornell endorsement. Copyright © 2022 CU, All rights reserved. This email was sent to <<Email Address>> why did I get this? unsubscribe from this list update subscription preferences CU · 2222 · Tully, Ny 13159 · USA