Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Wellbeing / Physical Wellbeing / Inclusion Wellbeing 7 Dimensions Mental Relationships Physical Cultural Environmental Occupational Financial Download guide Submit a resource Physical Wellbeing General General Physical Wellbeing Health/Vision and Dental Care Plans - Cornell’s health plans (which include health insurance, dental and vision insurance, and prescription drug coverage) provide quality care options focused on preventative health care and treatment. Cornell Health - select services offered to faculty and staff, including: Pharmacy Physical Therapy Flu vaccines offered on campus Travel Clinic for International Travel Body Positive Cornell Cornell Wellness - offers a variety of services and educational opportunities in the areas of fitness, nutrition, and general health programs, including: Free individual consultations (fitness, nutrition) Workshops, lectures, classes and demonstrations Healthy Living Program Tobacco Cessation Support Exercise & Recreation Exercise Cornell Wellness Recreation Membership, open to open to staff, faculty, and their spouses/partners, and includes perks such as: Group fitness classes and fitness facility use Free lap swimming, ice skating at Lynah Rink, equipment rentals and more Reduced fees at Merrill Sailing Center, Reis Tennis Center, Lindseth Climbing Wall Walking maps - explore all the beautiful areas of campus. Physical fitness videos - a series of videos by Cornell Wellness, providing easy to follow exercises, including stretching, strength training and more! Cornell Tech and Weill Cornell Medicine employees can receive discounts on gym memberships at NYC Sports Clubs via the Corporate Fitness Program (pdf). Recreation Cornell’s offers a myriad of recreational opportunities on campus: Helen Newman Bowling Center Lindseth Climbing Center Lynah Rink Swimming Cornell Outdoor Education Reis Tennis Center Merrill Sailing Center Food & Diet Food & Diet Meal Choice Program by Cornell Dining – Convenient, cash-free access to Cornell Dining's award-winning eateries, campus vending machines with card readers, and Ithaca-area restaurants participating in City Bucks for Cornell employees (employee ID needed). 10% discount at food retail locations on campus. Fresh produce through CSAs - Community and student-run CSA's with campus delivery or pickup options. East Hill Farmer’s Market and Ag Quad Farmer’s Market - check out local produce and fare at these convenient campus locations! Cooking demos - Short and easy to follow cooking videos on a variety of topics presented by Cornell Wellness. Cornell Food Pantry - Free, confidential access to food and personal care items is available to Cornell undergraduate and graduate students, as well as Cornell staff and faculty. Cornell Food Pantry continues to maintain its regular operating hours. They will be closed for spring break, and then resume regular hours on Tuesday, April 7, 2020 (Tuesdays and Thursdays 4-7 pm, Wednesdays and Fridays 10 am-1 pm, and Sundays 12-3 pm). Health Challenges Health Challenges Navigating Health Challenges - Cornell-specific resource guide for support with challenges such as cancer, mental health, substance abuse, work scheduling, caregiving, and finances. Cancer Support Group - On-campus monthly meetings for faculty, staff, students, and retirees who have been diagnosed with or have had cancer. Travel Assistance to NYC for Medical Appointments - (Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this offering is currently paused). Cornell University Transportation Services provides round-trip bus tickets on the Campus-to-Campus Bus to current employees (and one caregiver/companion), free of charge, for purposes of health care and other emergencies. Request assistance through the Travel Assistance Form. Flexible work arrangements: Cornell offers a variety of flexible work arrangements to support the wellbeing of our employees. Although not all positions can take advantage of these arrangements, often other types of flexibility can be integrated into the workplace. Tobacco Cessation Support: Looking for some assistance quitting cigarettes, chew or vaping? Cornell Wellness offers no-cost individual tobacco/smoking cessation sessions that are designed to help you prepare to quit the habit. Safety Matters Safety Matters There are several departments responsible for emergency preparedness, environmental health/safety, and overall public safety of the Cornell community. Cornell Police – Crime Prevention, Workplace Safety - (call 5-1111 from a campus telephone, or 911) - Cornell Police Department operates 24 hours/day, 365 days/year. It is the primary emergency response agency for campus and offers various safety services for the community. RAVE Guardian App Child Safety Seat Program Blue Light and Emergency Phones Domestic violence and sexual violence resources - Cornell University is committed to providing resources to employees who are victims of domestic violence. Discrimination, Harassment, and Bias - Anyone who directly witnesses or experiences bias activity (or finds evidence of or hears about past bias activity) on the Cornell campus or in an area that impacts the Cornell community should report it immediately. Emergency Mass Notifications - Cornell utilizes an Emergency Mass Notification system (voice, email, text, siren, etc) to alert campus of a significant emergency or dangerous situation involving an immediate threat to the health or safety of the University community. Weather Emergencies - Adverse weather conditions can be challenging in our area. Condition updates such as delayed university openings/closings as well as road closings are available at this site. Gorge Safety - Learn about practicing safety at all times when hiking or using the trails on the two gorges that run through Cornell's campus. Musculoskeletal Injury Prevent Program / Ergonomic Space Recommendations - Ergonomics assessment, training, and planning services are available to the university community free of charge. See this helpful video on Creating Effective Workspaces and a tip sheet to help guide you. Environmental Health and Safety - Environmental Health and Safety provides training and guidance in laboratory safety, occupational safety, environmental compliance, fire safety, event safety, and emergency preparedness and response. Reproductive Health Program Inclusion Trans Inclusion at Cornell – Cornell is committed to creating a safe and respectful campus for all members of the community, including those of all gender identities and expression. Contact health insurance provider for coverage options related to transgender medical care. Disability/Accessibility Resources - Providing an accessible, usable and welcoming environment for faculty, staff, students and visitors with disabilities. Workplace accommodations - Employees with a qualified disability who need assistance to complete their work can apply for a disability accommodation. Fitness center accessibility - Cornell's Fitness Centers offer a variety of accessibility options. Red Runner Campus Transportation - Cornell will provide FREE door-to-door transportation via Red Runner for staff and faculty with disabilities who are participating in university-related activities or taking advantage of the benefits of employment at Cornell. Disability Colleague Network Group - Raises awareness, provides educational resources and support, and offers peer mentorship for faculty and staff working with short-term or long-term disabilities, their supervisors, colleagues, allies, and other supporters. See Mental Wellbeing for resources on counseling, stress, mindfulness, and relaxation. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.