Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Breadcrumb Home Fall 2021 Move-In Volunteer Sign-Up THANK YOU for offering to help with welcoming our students to campus for the fall 2021 semester! Every volunteer will receive a Cornell Move-In t-shirt and a hat. In addition, for each shift worked, all staff and faculty volunteers will be entered to win one of twenty-five spots for an exclusive lunch and tour of Morrison Dining. Each winner will be able to bring a colleague. Students are eligible to receive volunteer hours, and the volunteers from the top three organizations with the highest number of volunteer hours will receive an exclusive pizza party in Morrison Dining Hall. Those who volunteer for two back-to-back shifts will receive a meal from Cornell Dining, a light breakfast with coffee, and bottled water. We are also providing personal protection bags containing extra masks, disposable gloves, and hand sanitizer. Job Descriptions Directional Staging, Line Management, Loading/Unloading Support: Roles within this area include: · Monitoring time spent in Unloading Zones · Monitoring families unloading vehicles into bins · Monitoring barricades · Managing lines to ensure COVID protocols are followed · Internal and External Building support Please note that a number of these roles are outside roles. If you have restrictions and/or need please do not hesitate to reach out to the email below to let us know. Campus Check-In/Out Assistance Assist service center and Residential Life staff with the check-in and key distribution process. Areas within this role may also be assigned to assist with directional queueing, data gathering, inside line management, and a few other small needs. Traffic and Parking Assistance: Assist drivers on where to temporarily park their vehicles, unload, and drive to the location closest to their student’s residence hall for drop off. Some may also be responsible for getting data from each student in a vehicle to check compliance and provide direction. This role works closely with Amric and CUPD. Please understand that we will do our best to place you in your requested areas but as things change daily there may be some roles that need to be filled that are not listed above. As always, we appreciate your willingness to assist. For any questions or concerns, please contact the Conference & Event Services team at events@cornell.edu. Volunteer Testing In order to protect our campus and community, all employees are strongly encouraged to complete a supplemental test prior to volunteering, if you do not already get regularly tested or are unvaccinated. This testing is an essential part of our public health strategy and important to assist us in limiting the spread of COVID-19. Your assistance is vital for this important program. If you have not previously been cleared to be on campus we will temporarily give you this clearance and allow you to be on campus for the move-in timeframe only. Please review the testing hours of operations listed here: https://covid.cornell.edu/testing/surveillance/. You can schedule this supplemental test by logging in to your Daily Check portal (https://dailycheck.cornell.edu/) and selecting the “Supplemental Testing Only” button. Symptomatic employees are not permitted to test at a surveillance site and instead should seek a diagnostic test at a Cayuga Health site or through their primary care physician. When registering, be sure to use your netid@cornell.edu email address. Staff who are symptomatic must not attend any volunteering shifts. Volunteer Sign-up There are three different volunteer job assignments categories for Fall 2021 Move-In. Please sign up for multiple shifts if you are able. Any amount of time that you can give to support University move-in will be a huge help. To review the shifts available, please follow the link at the bottom of this page to continue to the registration site. Sign-up on CampusGroups is now closed. If you are able to join us and did not have a chance to sign up, please go to room 222 in RPCC before a shift and we will get you signed up! If you can only work for a few hours, we would still love to have you! Shift Dates and Times: August 19 Thur. Aug 19 From 7:30am to 12:00pm Thur. Aug 19 From 11:30am to 4:45pm Thur, Aug 19 From 4:30pm to 8:30pm August 20 Fri, Aug 20 From 7:30am to 12:00pm Fri, Aug 20 From 11:30am to 4:45pm Fri, Aug 20 From 4:30pm to 8:30pm August 21 Sat, Aug 21 From 7:30am to 12:00pm Sat, Aug 21 From 11:30am to 4:45pm Sat, Aug 21 From 4:30pm to 8:30pm Please note we are using Cornell's CampusGroups service to register volunteers. If you follow the links and get a prompt to create a user account, simply email events@cornell.edu. We can easily give you access. It takes a matter of minutes to activate your Cornell CampusGroups user account. Please do not create a user account. To review what you have signed up for, go to “My Events” on CampusGroups. Conference & Event Services is a unit of Campus Life, Division of Student and Campus Life. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.