Skip to main content Search form Search This Site Cornell Cornell Recreational Services Wellness Program menu Home & Events Hours & Facilities Bowling Fitness Centers Intramurals Noyes Wellness Program Home Wellness Program Cornell Wellness Outreach Eat Right For Life Campaign In recognition of National Nutrition Month ® Cornell Wellness is happy to provide our “Eat Right for Life” Campaign. These two weeks will be jampacked with information on how you can develop knowledge, tools, plus the skills necessary to maintain and sustain healthy eating patterns for the rest of your life. Check out the weekly highlights below: Week 1 (03/09-03/15)- Come interact with the Cornell Wellness staff at 1 of 5 tabling events throughout this week (times and locations listed below). Answer a pop quiz question about nutrition to win a prize right there on the spot and also be entered to also win prizes at the end of the month. Not on campus? Visit the Cornell Wellness Facebook Page and answer the pop quiz question via Facebook live. Answer the question along with your netID and earn you chance to win a prize at the end of the month. Monday 03/09- Helen Newman Hall, 11:30am-1:00pm Tuesday 03/10- Teagle Hall, 11:30am-1:00pm Wednesday 03/11- Vet College, 11:30am-1:00pm. Wear Green in recognition of National Registered Dietitian Nutrition(RDN) Day, take a picture and post it to the Cornell Wellness Facebook page with #CornellWellnessEatRight4Life. Thursday 03/12- Trillium Dining Hall, 11:30am-1pm Friday 03/13- East Hill Office Building 11:30am-1pm Also, follow us on Instagram @cornellwellness as well as Facebook to learn about the 5 food groups and how they can benefit you. Week 2(03/16-03/20)- On the final week of “Eat Right for Life” we will be providing lectures through Zoom (dates and times listed below). Participation in these workshops will earn you a chance to win a prize at the end of the month. Monday, March 16, Release of Keri Johnson's Plant Based Nutrition Workshop on the Cornell Wellness website. Wednesday, March 18, 12:00-12:30pm, Jeremy Stewart's What's the Best Diet Workshop. Zoom Recording. Friday, March 20, 12:00-12:30pm, Jeremy Stewart's How to Read A Nutrition Label Workshop. Zoom Recording. For more information on how you can participate in the Eat Right for Life Campaign, contact Jeremy Stewart. In this section #Fitspo Got You Down? A Lunch and Learn about Fitness Imagery on Social Media Blood Pressure Screenings Celebrate A World Of Flavor Cholesterol Education Campaign Colorectal Cancer Awareness Come Stroll and Chat with Cornell Wellness: Arts Quad Edition Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) Community Wellness Chat: Nutrition & Fitness to Support Blood Sugar Balance Community Wellness Chat: Staying Active In Colder Weather Community Wellness Chat: Thinking Through Nutrition And Mindfulness In The Winter Cook Along With Me Cooking And Food Demo Videos Coping When Work And Life Ramp Up Cornell Wellness Celebrates Black History Month Cornell Wellness Collaborates With The Cornell Hip Hop Collection And DJ ha-MEEN Cornell's Bike Week Challenge Create On-Site Fitness Opportunities Destined For A Destination Diabetes Awareness Campaign Eat Right For Life Campaign Eat Safe Campaign Exercise Videos Exercising While Pregnant: Managing Your Physical Wellness Fall Seasonal Cooking Demo Finding Flourish - A Wellness Experience Fitness & Health Apps Fitness Consultation Flickering Flame Meditation Form A Wellness Committee Gateway To Gut Health Mini-Course General Fitness And Nutrition Education Session General Health And Wellness Consultation Getting Ready To Quit Smoking Holiday Discounts At YMCA and Island How To Read A Nutrition Label Hydration Challenge Hydration Themed Offerings Let's Meditate With Wellness Let's Meditate with Cornell Wellness Living On Purpose Local and National Resources Managing Your Wellbeing With Gestational Diabetes Massage Therapy Meditation Meditation: Removing Obstacles Mental Wellness Challenge Mental Wellness Experience Mental Wellness Themed Offerings Movement For The Mind Movement Madness Movement Themed Offerings National Nutrition Month Campaign Nutrition Consultation Nutrition Themed Offerings On The Move - Running Group Optimizing Your Space For Exercise Packing Healthy Lunches Workshop And Chat Physical Activity Options Pick A Healthy Habit Challenge Plant Based Nutrition - Getting Started Positivity: Re-Working The Mind For A More Optimistic Thought Process Prenatal Wellness Chat – A Focus on Nutrition and Fitness Recorded Lectures/Workshops Releasing The Sense Of Control Guided Meditation Restorative Talking Circles Running Groups STAC your Wellness for LVTs Sleep Challenge Sleep Themed Offerings Spring Cook Along With Wellness Step It Up - Walking Group Stress Less Sessions Stress Less Sessions Stretch It Out Support For Off-Campus Locations Tobacco/Smoking Cessation Session Training Programs Valentine's Day Challenge Virtual Commuter Challenge Virtual Commuter Winter Event Walking Maps Wellbeing Resources at Cornell Wellbeing@Work Interview Series Wellness Blog Wellness Book Club Spring 2022 Wellness For Your Department What's The Best Diet For Me? Winter Reflections Mindfulness Meditation Sessions You're Not Alone - Alcohol Awareness Campaign Contact Cornell University Wellness Program 305 Helen Newman Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Phone: (607) 255-5133 wellness@cornell.edu Admin office hours: M-F 9am-2pm; 3:00pm-5:00pm Cornell Wellness Staff Listing Cornell University ©2021 Links Athletics Cornell Outdoor Education Physical Education Recreational Services Staff Listing Web Accessibility If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. About Us Learn more about Cornell Wellness, our staff and how to stay in touch with us. Did you know that you can request a Flexible Work Arrangement to help with your Wellness and Wellbeing needs?