Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Career Development / Performance / Performance Dialogues Performance Dialogues About The performance dialogue provides an important opportunity for Cornell employees and supervisors to discuss job performance expectations and career development opportunities. Performance dialogues are one component of the ongoing Performance Management Process . Depending on the college or unit where you work, the annual performance dialogue may be submitted online in Workday, or via paper document. If you are not completing your performance dialogue in Workday, your supervisor may also encourage you to complete an Individual Development Plan which is an excellent way to chart a course forward in your career at Cornell. If completing your performance dialogue online, the Individual Development Plan is built into the Performance Dialogue in Workday. If you’re not sure about which form to use, check with your supervisor or local HR representative. Supervisors: see the Manager’s Toolkit , "Career Support" for resources. What To Expect The performance dialogue process varies by college and unit at Cornell. But essentially, all regular full-time and regular part-time nonacademic employees of the university are expected to meet with their supervisors on an annual basis to review job results and planning. Read the Performance Appraisal Policy for details. Employees should complete the appropriate documentation in advance of this meeting, as instructed by the supervisor (links to forms are listed below). Performance is evaluated according to what was done well and what may need to change or improve; review the status of last’s year’s goals; discuss actions to promote more effective job performance, including a review of the Skills for Success, Leadership Skills for Success (if applicable), and skills specific to the role; and review the coming year’s goals. After your meeting, you will receive a copy of the completed Performance Dialogue form to sign (or if in Workday, you will use a digital signature); your signature acknowledges the dialogue took place and does not constitute agreement with the content. If you disagree with any part of the dialogue, you may attach supplementary explanatory materials which will become part of the record and/or you may request a review by the supervisor. If you believe the dialogue documentation is not factually accurate, you may request a review by the supervisor’s manager. If the disagreement remains regarding the facts, you may file a formal grievance . Note: HR is in the process of moving all performance management documentation into Workday, which will provide a more convenient digital interface and efficient recording. Tools Reading Skills for Success: Key skills Cornell employees are expected to demonstrate, which are evaluated as part of the PMP. Leaderships Skills for Success: Leadership skills that employees, and especially supervisors, are expected to demonstrate. Career Development Guidelines Performance Review FAQ (pdf) Instructions How to Complete Your Performance Review in Workday (Video) How to Add Goals in Workday (Video) Forms Performance Appraisal for Union Employees (doc) Goal Alignment Form (doc) Performance Improvement Plan for staff (doc) Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.