Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Our Workplace / Community / Events / Bring A Child To Work Day / Cornell Kids@Home Cornell Kids@Home More fun for families! Check out the Family Activities Around Ithaca page for a listing of places to go, things to do, and other resources for parents. Upcoming events at the Tompkins County Public LIbrary Nature Activities from the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation What kinds of work do people do at Cornell University? Some of the coolest jobs you can imagine happen here! Join us for three weeks of exciting virtual programs for K-12 kids as part of the national "Bring A Child To Work Day" celebrations. Learn to navigate the solar system, program a microcontroller, identify birds, cook up a mini yogurt parfait, tour a Cornell University Police squad car, practice some new yoga moves, and much more! Consider reviewing one of these career information booklets (published by the national foundation) with your child as an introduction to discussing careers. Careers Are Everywhere: geared toward younger children Career Activities & Games: geared toward older elementary kids Questions? Please contact bring_a_child@cornell.edu Activity Center: Check out all the fun at home activities ! Science and Nature for cooped up kids! Sponsored by the Lab of O. Being in nature decreases stress and boosts creativity. Encourage kids to complete the outside portions of these activities as much as possible, especially with spring approaching! With engaging, self-paced slideshows, these activities can be self-guided for kids in grades 3-8, while K-2 learners will probably need an adult guide. Click here to access activities! Upcoming event: Stories of the People - May 14th Sponsored by the Lab of O. Join us at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology as Perry Ground recounts traditional Haudenosaunee (Iroquois) legends that have been told for hundreds of years and showcases the birds, beliefs, customs, and history of the Haudenosaunee people. Click here to learn more. No registration required! Johnson Museum of Art Coloring Book Sponsored by Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art Enjoy coloring beautiful works of art from all over the world! Download Coloring Book PDF Make Your Own Healthy Snacks Sponsored by Cornell Wellness Spend a few minutes with Erin from Cornell Wellness learning how to make your very own hummus! For those with a sweet tooth, Erin will also show us how to create a mini yogurt parfait. After you're done creating these tasty meals review the Mix and Match Healthy Snack guide for all your future snack ideas! Watch "Mix & Match Healthy Snacking Cook Along" Download Recipes Stretching With The Family Sponsored by Cornell Wellness Join Ruth, Associate Director for Cornell Wellness, as she walks you and your family through a relaxing meditation and stretching exercise. Watch "Stretching With the Family" Science Activity Videos Sponsored by Cornell Center for Materials Research Did you know you can extract the DNA from a strawberry right in your own home? Learn about chemistry as you make your own rock candy! Have fun with physics and bubbles! Check out these and other cool science activity videos led by graduate students with the Cornell Center for Materials Research. Check Out Science Activity Videos Safety Activity Sheets Sponsored by Cornell University Police Department Learn strategies for dealing with bullying behavior, help McGruff solve a crossword puzzle, and learn about how to identify trusted adults and use critical-thinking skills. Bullying activity sheet (Grades 1-2, appropriate for an adult-led group) McGruff Crossword Strangers activity sheet (Grades K-1, adult-led discussion) It's Nesting Time! Sponsored by Cornell Lab of Ornithology Learn how you can be a citizen scientist and properly report bird nesting activity using NestWatch. Make sure to read about how to avoid disturbing birds when monitoring their nests. By following the NestWatch protocol and learning more about identifying nests and eggs, you can safely monitor and minimize this risk to our bird friends. Before starting, please also read the nest monitor’s Code of Conduct. Learn how to properly monitor a nest Learn how to identify common nesting birds Shelter in Space Resource Portal Sponsored by Cornell University Spacecraft Planetary Image Facility Check out SPIF's K-12 YouTube channel loaded with cool activities and resources for budding space explorers, including how to make a comet, conversations with scientists, DIY holograms, and more! What's in your #NASAMoonKit? If you were going on a mission to the moon, what would you bring with you? Train Like An Astronaut: Learn about what astronauts do to get ready for a mission, and activities you can try yourself! Animal Matching Activity Sheet Sponsored by the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art Do you know what animals these artworks represent? Match them up, and then try some of the creative art ideas for fun! Download Animal Matching Activity Sheet Surf Safely Sponsored by Cornell University Police Department Help Scruff surf the internet safely by leading him through this maze without encountering any dangerous messages. Download Scruff's Surfing Safely Maze Workout With Your Kids Sponsored by Cornell Wellness Let’s get up and moving! Join Kerri Johnson, Instructor for Cornell Wellness, in a heart-pounding fun workout for the whole family! Let's Workout! Yoga With Your Family Sponsored by Cornell Wellness Time to breathe, relax, stretch, and focus. Enjoying this invigorating yoga class with Kerri Johnson, Instructor for Cornell Wellness, and her family. Let's Do Yoga! Traditions of Quilting Sponsored by Cornell Library Mann-U-Factory Learn about the traditions of African-American quilting featuring associate professor and fiber artist Riché Richardson and local fiber artist Heather Stewart and about how to draw out quilt squares to learn traditional patterns by TCPL makerspace librarian Cady Fontana. Co-sponsored with Tompkins County Public Library. Learn About Quilting Social Media Test Drive Sponsored by Cornell Social Media Lab Learn and practice digital literacy and citizenship skills with Social Media TestDrive! TestDrive is a social media simulation platform that children can safely explore with parents and educators to learn about digital citizenship topics. The platform was developed by the Cornell Social Media Lab in partnership with Common Sense Education. Take the Social Media Test Drive CUPD K9 Training Video Sponsored by Cornell University Police Department Police dogs and their handlers show off their skills tracking, sniffing out danger, and finding lost things and people. Watch Some Awesome Dogs! Math Explorer's Club (Grades 8-12) Sponsored by the Department of Mathematics The Math Explorer's Club, led by Cornell graduate students, introduces new mathematical concepts and problem-solving strategies to grades 8-12 students. Register now for the Probabilistic Games coming up on Saturday, April 24. Math Explorer's Club A Home In The Trees: Features of a Good Bird House Sponsored by the Cornell Lab of Ornithology Let's continue our education about our feathered friends - check out these tips for building a great home for birds. Features of a Good Bird House Infographic Exploring Nature Through Sound and Music Sponsored by the Cornell Lab of Ornithology The world is always singing, you just have to tune in -- this recorded lecture from the Cornell Lab of Ornithology's Bird Academy features a mixmaster host DJ who lays down animal sounds you can dance to! Plus a panel of Cornell researchers who answer questions and discuss their work recording birds and animals all over the world. Check out the rest of the Bird Academy's fascinating programs! Watch Exploring Nature Through Sound and Music Make A No-Sew Cornell Sock Bear Sponsored by the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art You can make your own adorable stuffed bear with these simple supplies - no experience necessary! Two old socks, rubber bands or string, scrap paper or cotton balls, scissors, marker. Make A Sock Bear Video Tour A CUPD Squad Car Sponsored by the Cornell University Police Department Office Camilli takes you on a tour of his "office" when he's on patrol on campus. Watch A CUPD Squad Car Tour How Well Do You Know Your Bike Safety? Sponsored by the Cornell University Police Department Download this quiz sheet and see how much you know about being safe with your bike (hint: answers are at the bottom!) Take the Bike Safety Quiz SSign Sign Safety Sponsored by the Cornell University Police Department Do you know your traffic signs? Download this quiz sheet and test your sign skills! Take the Sign Safety Quiz Family Fitness Time Sponsored by Cornell Wellness Let's get up and move together as a family! Join our Wellness instructors for another fun-filled workout. Get Moving! Build Your Own Pizza Sponsored by Cornell Dining Kyle Pluckrose from Cornell Dining takes you on a tour of the kitchen at Appel Commons and shows you how to make your own delicious pizza from scratch! You can also use a store-bought crust, or a bagel or English muffin, too. Download the recipe below and have your ingredients ready for a tasty treat! Download Recipe Watch Build Your Own Pizza Video Sustainable Landscapes Trail Virtual Tour Sponsored by Cornell Botanic Gardens Take a virtual walk along the Sustainable Landscapes Trail and learn about the many benefits humans gain from the natural environment and from properly-functioning ecosystems. If you’re near campus, you can enjoy a self-guided tour on your mobile device. Take a Virtual Sustainable Landscape Tour Secret Gardens of Cornell Sponsored by Cornell Grounds Join Dan Schied, Director of Cornell Grounds, for a virtual insider's tour of Cornell's beautiful "secret gardens!" Discover Cornell's Secret Gardens How Does Lake Source Cooling Work? Sponsored by Cornell Lake Source Cooling Facility Join Josh LaPenna, Plant Manager, and learn how Cornell keeps campus buildings cool and energy-efficient by using water from Cayuga Lake, including a behind-the-scenes virtual tour of the plant. Watch A Really Cool Video! Virtual Tour of Cornell's Hydroelectric Plant Did you know Cornell's hydro project was started all the way back in 1898? Learn about the history of hydro at Cornell, and how it continues to power the University. This presentation is a narrated Powerpoint file (you'll need Powerpoint to view it); click on the speaker icon on the bottom right of each page to hear the narration. Tour Cornell's Hydro Plant Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.