Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Restorative Talking Circles Restorative Talking Circles Restorative Talking Circles (RTC) for Cornell employees Does it seem the world has moved forward but you’re feeling left behind? Would you like to be a part of a small group to collectively process experiences and share reflections of the last year and a half? Do you want to feel more restored but are unsure where to start? If you answered yes to any of these, please consider participating in an upcoming Restorative Talking Circle (RTC). What is an RTC? Talking circles originated with First Nations leaders to ensure that all individuals were heard and respected. In these talking circles, each person is equal and belongs. RTCs, as we have designed them, provide a way for Cornell employees to reflect and deepen their sense of community connection through small group sharing and storytelling. They offer an arena for processing and naming the myriad of experiences, struggles, and triumphs that are felt as we continue navigating COVID-19, campus transitions, and more. A facilitator will help establish an environment for safe exchange and generative discussion. RTC facilitators are also Cornell employees, but they are not mental health counselors, nor spiritual advisors. Circles offer a community space for processing and naming the experiences, struggles, opportunities, and triumphs as we continue navigating COVID-19, campus transitions, and more. They offer a way of engaging with one another to build community, share, and heal. Upcoming Dates & Times: Each upcoming circle will meet three times for one hour each session. Attendance is limited to 8-10 participants. Register by completing the form linked below. Additional circles will be added based on interest. To be notified of future circles, please complete the registration form and select, “Inform me of future sessions.” Register for a Restorative Talking Circle Session Thursdays, November 4, 11, and 18, 4:00 - 5:00 pm (via zoom) – Facilitator: Ruth Merle-Doyle Facilitators: Michelle Artibee (she, her), Director, Workforce Wellbeing, Division of Human Resources. Michelle is in awe of the contributions of Cornell employees and looks forward to being in community with others as we explore the impact of the pandemic, being present, and moving forward – individually and together. Ruth Merle Doyle (she, her), Associate Director, Cornell Wellness. Ruth’s favorite part of her job is connecting with clients through listening and understanding what matters most to them, including their pandemic experience. She is eager to be a part of a space where COVID stories are shared and we can acknowledge this pandemic moment in time that we have all experienced in unique ways. Kate Buckley (she, her), Administrative Manager, Office of the Vice Provost for Engagement and Land-Grant Affairs. Kate holds deep reverence for the power of storytelling, listening, shared experience, and meaning-making. She believes wholeheartedly that we heal and move forward best when we connect our hearts and minds, in community. She looks forward to learning from one another and becoming stronger, together. Other Opportunities If you would like to volunteer as a facilitator, please notify Michelle Artibee, Director, Workforce Wellbeing (mla64@cornell.edu). Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.