Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Benefits, Pay & Perks / Medical Leaves & Accommodations / Long-term Disability Quick Links Contact Medical Leaves Administration Leaves policies Long-term disability brochure (pdf) Disability Colleague Network Group Long term Disability The Cornell Long-Term Disability (LTD) Plan (administered by CIGNA) provides an important financial safety net to eligible employees unable to work because of debilitating illness or injury. Endowed employees are enrolled in long-term disability coverage automatically. Contract College employees pay a nominal fee. See eligibility requirements below for additional details. LTD benefits continue as long as you remain disabled or until the maximum benefit period has been reached atyour social security normal retirement age (SSNRA). For employees who are age 60 or over at the time the disability begins, the maximum benefit period is the later of the employee’s SSNRA or 5 years from the date the employee became disabled. Salary The LTD plan pays a monthly benefit equal to 60% of your regular monthly income at the time of disability and up to a maximum monthly benefit of $20,000. The paid benefit is reducedby any amount of money you receive from the following: Workers’ compensation Federal social security disability Retirement No-fault auto insurance lost wage benefits Employer salary continuation Benefits You are also eligible to participate in health, retirement, and other benefits at a cost1. What you are eligible for depends on whether you have endowed or Contract College benefits. Not sure? Click here to find out. Contract College Endowed Health Insurance You are billed for the full employee and employer share of your health coverage directly from the New York State Department of Civil Service. Once you are on “long term disability” status, Empire Plan enrollees may be eligible for a waiver of premium benefit if your medical leave of absence is not work-related. If the Empire Plan waiver is approved, your health insurance is provided to you at no cost for up to one year. You are billed for the employee contribution toward the cost of your health coverage by PayFlex while you receive long term disability income benefits from CIGNA. Dental Insurance Your state administered dental coverage is automatically terminated once you are placed on a leave without pay status. If you wish to continue your dental coverage while on leave without pay, you need to complete a PS-404, section 12 “Leave Without Pay” and select the box “I wish to continue coverage while I am on authorized leave. I understand that I will be billed for this coverage.” You are responsible for paying the full cost of the premiums for dental coverage while on leave. You will be billed directly from the New York State Department of Civil Service. You are billed for the employee contribution toward the cost of your dental coverage by PayFlex while you receive long term disability income benefits from Cigna. Vision Insurance NY State does not provide vision insurance. You are billed for the employee contribution toward the cost of your vision coverage by PayFlex while you receive long term disability income benefits from Cigna. LTD Return to Work LTD with Concurrent Job: If you return to work in a non-benefits eligible position and then move into a benefits eligible position, the benefits will continue in LTD status with the NY State Department of Civil Service. The health insurance premiums will not be deducted from the secondary job salary in Workday. If LTD Ends: When you return to payroll in a regular full-time benefits eligible position, billing by the NY State Department of Civil Service will end. If coverage was cancelled while on LTD, you may re-enroll in the health/dental plans within 30 days of returning to payroll. Contact the HR Services and Transitions Center at (607) 255-3936 for further assistance. LTD with Concurrent Job: If you return to work in a non-benefits eligible position and then move into a benefits eligible position, the health, dental and vision benefits will continue in LTD status with PayFlex. The health, dental and vision benefits will not be deducted from the secondary job salary in Workday. If LTD Ends: When you return to payroll in a regular full-time benefits eligible position, billing with PayFlex will end. If coverage was cancelled while on LTD, you may re-enroll in the health, dental and vision benefits within 60 days of returning to payroll. Contact the HR Services and Transitions Center at (607) 255-3936 for further assistance. Life Insurance Your Basic Life Insurance Plan will continue at no cost to you. For your Group Universal Life (GUL) Plan, CIGNA, which also insures the University’s life insurance plans, will ask you to complete a “Waiver of Premium” form at the time you make application for an income benefit under the Long-Term Disability Plan. If you qualify for the Waiver of Premium status, the premiums for the GUL coverage on you, the employee, will be waived at the time of your LTD approval and while you continue on disability. If you carry dependent or spousal coverage under your GUL Plan, you will be billed if you wish to continue coverage while on LTD. Should you be denied for Waiver of Premium but wish to continue your Group Universal Life coverage, you will be direct billed for the premiums. Your Basic Life Insurance Plan will continue at no cost to you. For your Group Universal Life (GUL) Plan, CIGNA, which also insures the University’s life insurance plans, will ask you to complete a “Waiver of Premium” form at the time you make application for an income benefit under the Long-Term Disability Plan. If you qualify for the Waiver of Premium status, the premiums for the GUL coverage on you, the employee, will be waived at the time of your LTD approval and while you continue on disability. If you carry dependent or spousal coverage under your GUL Plan, you will be billed if you wish to continue coverage while on LTD. Should you be denied for Waiver of Premium but wish to continue your Group Universal Life coverage, you will be direct billed for the premiums. Retirement Individuals who are vested in NYSERS must separately qualify for disability retirement status under their respective retirement plan. Disability retirement benefits generally continue for life. NYSERS – If approved, you receive a benefit based on the years of service credited to your retirement at the time you become disabled. You do not accrue additional NYSERS service credit while you receive LTD benefits. ORP – If you are a participant in the Optional Retirement Plan (ORP at the time you became disabled), Cornell will continue the employer contribution based on your tier level and pay when you became disabled. The contribution will be made to an account for you in the endowed CURP plan. . If you are a participant in the endowed retirement plan (CURP) at the time you become disabled, Cornell continues to contribute 10% of the budgeted annual salary you received when you became disabled. Eligibility You must meet all of the following criteria: Be scheduled to work a minimum of 1,000 hours or more per calendar year, or have actually worked at least 1,000 hours or more in the year immediately prior, to be eligible under this plan. All current employees working more than half-time who meet the eligibility requirements are eligible to participate in this program immediately. All current half-time employees who meet the eligibility requirements are eligible to participate after completing three (3) years of active service. Have participated in 180 days of short-term disability or workers’ compensation. Have a medicaldisability approved by CIGNA. Approval is based on the medical information received from your treating physicians to support your disability claim. First 12 months: You are unable to perform all of your regular job duties, solely due to injury or sickness, and you are unable to earn more than 80% of your indexed covered earning. After 12 months: You are unable to perform all the material duties of any occupation you may reasonably become qualified based on education, training or experience. Additional New York State Benefits Contract College employees who are members of the Federal Employees’ Retirement System (FERS) or the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and have the proper number of years of service may be eligible to receive a disability and/or death benefit from FERS or CSRS. Contact the Cooperative Extension Finance and Personnel Office at (607) 255-2292 for information. How to Apply While you are on short-term disability leave or workers’ compensation, and it appears your disability will continue up to or beyond six (6) months, Medical Leaves Administration will contact you to begin the application process. If you would like to begin the process sooner, you may also choose to contact Medical Leaves Administration at (607) 255-1177. This web page is a simplified summary of your benefits. The complete terms of the long-term disability program are contained in the official plan document, which will govern in case of discrepancy. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.