Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Working During COVID-19 University Response Repopulation Fall 2021 Daily Check Testing OTC Test Coverage Quarantine & Isolation Vaccination Accommodations & Leaves Pay & Time Travel FSA Impacts Financial Cost Measures 2021 Financial Payments Managing People Visitors On Campus Working on Campus Visiting Campus Supervisor Guide: Returning Employees Working Remotely Equipment & Workspace Expectations Working Outside NYS Managing Remote Teams Hybrid Work Gatherings Self Care & Support Benefits Wellbeing Parenting & Caregiving Community Resources Home / Working During COVID-19 / University Response / Financial Cost Saving Measures Financial Cost Saving Measures Addressing COVID-19 Financial Challenges Payroll costs account for more than 60 percent of the university’s operating budget; and as a result, it is essential that we identify all measures to address the looming budget shortfall while continuing to make decisions that are consistent with Cornell’s guiding principles for COVID-19 response as expressed in President Pollack’s April 7 message to the community. The following temporary programs are being instituted to support the university’s COVID-19 financial cost-saving measures. Additional details about the financial measures that are being taken as a university can be found in President Pollack’s July 2 statement. Questions regarding these programs should be directed to your manager or your HR representative. CONTRACT COLLEGE PAY REDUCTION Effective August 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021 Contract college benefits-eligible faculty and staff making $40,000 and above will receive a reduction in annual base pay on a tiered basis. Reduction based on August 1, 2020 annual base pay. Reduction will be reflected in the August 15 semi-monthly paycheck or the August 20 biweekly paycheck. Reduction implemented on all fund sources. For less than full-time appointments, annual base pay reflects pay received (not annualized full-time equivalent pay). See tiers below in FAQ. ENDOWED CURP CONTRIBUTION REDUCTION Effective August 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021 For the period August 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021, the CURP contribution for participants will be 3%, except for those participants referenced in the first bullet below. All other administrative aspects of the CURP will remain in effect, including applying eligibility rules, crediting service for waiting periods, and processing demographic or status changes, etc. CURP contributions will continue to be remitted under the existing participant distributions to either Fidelity Investments and/or TIAA, until changed by the participant. Endowed and Contract College faculty and staff who are currently participating in the Phased Retirement program are not subject to the change in contribution to 3%. For semi-monthly endowed employees, the 3% CURP contribution will be reflected starting in the August 14th paycheck (pay period 8/1 – 8/15/2020) For bi-weekly endowed employees, the 3% CURP contribution will be applied to the entire August 20th paycheck (pay period 7/30 – 8/12/2020). In the September 3rd paycheck (pay period 8/13 - 8/26/2020), there will be a retroactive contribution of 7% of eligible earnings that were paid on the days 7/30 and 7/31. With this 7% contribution added to the 3% contribution included in the August 20th paycheck, the total contributions for 7/30 & 7/31 will equal 10%. Participants remain able to change their beneficiary information, move their balances from one investment or recordkeeper to another (following the current rules and stipulations on investments and transfers), as well as consult with Fidelity Investments and/or TIAA education consultants or advisors about their accounts. VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE Applications are CLOSED. The Voluntary Retirement Incentive (VRI) is designed to provide a recognition of our long-service faculty and staff while also offering additional savings to address the financial challenges. Specific information about the VRI was sent via email to eligible employees on June 25, with hard copy documents sent to homes shortly thereafter. Frequently Asked Questions Contract College Pay Reduction What percent reduction will I see in my pay as part of the Contract College pay reduction? Annual Pay Reduction % Up to $39,999 0.00% $40,000 - $49,999 0.50% $50,000 - $59,999 1.00% $60,000 - $69,999 1.50% $70,000 - $79,999 1.75% $80,000 - $89,999 2.00% $90,000 - $99,999 2.25% $100,000 - $129,999 2.50% $130,000 - $149,999 2.75% $150,000 - $179,999 3.00% $180,000 - $199,999 3.50% $200,000 - $229,999 3.75% $230,000 - $249,999 4.25% $250,000 and above 5.00% Endowed CURP Contribution Reduction With the reduction in the CURP contribution, is there another way that I can contribute toward my retirement? The Cornell University Tax-Deferred Annuity Program (CUTDAP) offers eligible employees a way to save more for their retirement income, using before-tax dollars. Employees elect the amount or percentage that will be contributed to their account directly from their paycheck. Voluntary contributions (to the TDA Plan) are limited under age-based provisions of the tax code: up to $19,500 if under age 50 in 2020, and up to $26,000 if age 50 or older in 2020. More information is available here. Why can’t I choose to reduce my pay and keep the CURP contribution as it is? The IRS requires employers to ensure that the contributions or benefits provided under their retirement plans do not discriminate in favor of highly compensated employees. The Cornell University Retirement Plan (CURP) has historically been granted ‘non-discriminatory’ status because we utilize one contribution formula for all members, without regard to earnings level, age, length of service, etc. An ‘individual choice’ model (i.e. reduction in pay vs. reduction in Cornell contribution) would introduce the possibility that we would fail future ‘non-discrimination testing’ and we could be required to immediately remove Cornell contributions from participant accounts and change future contributions for particular individuals. Does the reduction in the CURP contribution mean that I can now contribute MORE money to the voluntary (TDA) plan? No, employer contributions, employee contributions and total combined contributions to the University’s 403(b) plans (CURP and TDA) are regulated by annual maximums as defined by the IRS tax code. The University’s contribution is limited by a maximum eligible salary per year: $285,000 in 2020. Voluntary contributions to the TDA Plan are limited by age-based provisions of the tax code: up to $19,500 if under age 50, and up to $26,000 if age 50 or older in 2020. An additional maximum applies in 2020: total combined contributions to CURP and TDA cannot exceed $57,000 if under age 50, and $63,500 for those over age 50. It is important to note that because the voluntary TDA plan has its own maximum limits, reducing the CURP contribution does NOT increase how much can be contributed to the TDA. In certain cases, an employee of any age who has at least 15 consecutive years of service with the university and meets other conditions required by the IRS, may be eligible to contribute up to an additional $3,000 in 2020. If you have 15 years of service, and have not been contributing to the maximum TDA limits each year, you may qualify. Please contact the HR Services and Transitions Center for more information. As an additional tax-deferral opportunity, employees who earn $190,950 or more in 2020, are eligible to participate in the voluntary 457(b) Plan, which allows for an additional tax-deferral of $19,500 in 2020. Additional efforts in place to manage the financial impact of COVID-19 Is it true that some individuals have also chosen to voluntarily reduce their pay to assist with the financial situation? Members of the senior leadership team and some additional faculty and staff have voluntarily assumed a six-month pay reduction to support student financial aid. Can faculty and staff voluntarily reduce their effort? Yes. Faculty arrangements would need to be negotiated between the faculty member, department chair and the dean. Units will need to be able to ensure that the agreement does not adversely impact their ability meet the instructional mission. Agreements would need to include details on the level and duration of the reduction, and responsibilities to be discharged during the period of the agreement. Staff may request a short-term reduction in hours (appointment) to help meet their personal needs. These arrangements will need to be negotiated between the staff member and supervisor. Pay, pay-based benefits, HAP/Vacation will be based on adjusted effort. Are Phased Retirements still available to faculty and staff? Eligible faculty members and staff employees may choose to request to reduce their job duties and scheduled hours to gradually transition into retirement, using the Phased Retirement program. The specific programs and details are here. Print as PDF Need Help? If you observe behavior related to COVID-19 that seems unsafe – whether by New York state or Cornell requirements Report a concern For support with Daily Check or questions related to testing, vaccines, or travel, contact the COVID-19 Support Center Request help For help with matters related to the workplace, or pay and time, contact your HR rep FIND YOUR HR REP Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.