Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Career Development / Opportunities / Career Skills / Career Skills Schedule Career Skills Schedule First, a few things you should know…. FAQs How do you search for training and enroll in courses? How do you drop a course or change your registration date? How do you view your record or transcript? Answers to these questions and others may be found on CULearn’s FAQ page here: https://culearn.cornell.edu/home/faq/. Linkedin Learning & Skillport Interested in topics that aren’t currently being offered or expanding on a topic you recently learned in one of our programs? Don’t forget these FREE platforms to expand and enhance your learning! Linkedin Learning: Access 16,000+ expert-led courses. Earn a certificate when you complete a course. Receive course recommendations tailored to you. View courses anytime from your computer or phone. Skillport: Whether you're trying to answer a question, learn a new skill, or develop professionally, Skillport lets you quickly locate learning content aligned to your needs. Find the right resources. Create a customized learning plan. Learn from your peers. Experience a learning platform that truly puts your needs front and center. Feedback Are you interested in providing feedback on career services and professional development opportunities for staff at Cornell? Take this short four-question survey to share your thoughts on our existing programs and tools and what we should consider as we look for ways to make our programs even better! Feedback Survey Upcoming Career Skills Programs Career Skills Emotional Intelligence Explore the capacity to be aware of, control, guide, and express your emotions, and to handle interpersonal relationships judiciously and empathetically. Course 1: HR 3059 Intro to Emotional Intelligence; February 10; 9:30-11:30 am Course 2: HR 3060 Self-Perception - Self-Regard, Self-Actualization; Feb. 17; 9:30-10:45 am Course 3: HR 3061 Self-Expression – Emotional Expression, Assertiveness, Independence; February 24; 9:30-10:45 am Course 4: HR 3062 Interpersonal – Interpersonal Relationships, Empathy, Social Responsibility; March 3; 9:30-10:45 am Course 5: HR 3063 Decision Making – Problem Solving, Reality Testing, Impulse Control; March 10; 9:30-10:45 am Course 6: HR 3064 Stress Management – Flexibility, Stress Tolerance, Optimism; March 17; 9:30-10:45 am Course 7: HR 3065 Pulling it all Together!; March 24; 9:30-11:30 am Facilitated by Ari Mack, Organizational Development Consultant Project Management for the Casual Project Manager Wednesday & Thursday, April 20+21 or October 19+20; ; 8:30 am – 12:00 pm Join us for a two half-day exploration of the fundamental elements of Project Management and the project lifecycle facilitated by certified project management professionals! With a focus on project management best practices, you will learn to apply the skills, tools, and knowledge necessary to understand the most effective path forward for your project. From initiation to closing, you’ll develop foundational knowledge that will enhance your project management skills. Whether you’re just starting your project management journey or have led a number of projects, this course is for you! Facilitated by Ari Mack, OD Consultant, Organizational Development & Effectiveness; Chris O’Brien, Workday Project Manager, HR Information Systems; Carrie Susskind, IT Project Manager, Research Administration Information Services Certificate Courses The following tracks include courses that can be taken individually or receive a certificate by taking all the courses within the track. There is no required end date for completing any track – take classes at your convenience and complete in your own time! NOTE: When you register for these tracks, it will automatically assign you to all the next available classes. BEFORE YOU REGISTER: be sure to VIEW CLASSES for each class and enroll for the date you want to attend. Building Trust As a leader, it is your responsibility to establish trust and motivate the team to create an environment that encourages collaboration and partnership between colleagues. As a member of the team, what are you doing to foster an environment where trust is co-created? In this program, we will explore: How to establish trust within onsite, hybrid and remote work-groups What actions in work lead to trust and which disrupt trust How teams with high levels of trust can support employee engagement and a sense of belonging 1: Establishing and Maintaining Trust in Work-Groups; February 1, 1:00-2:15 pm 2: The Value of Trust for Creating and Maintaining Belonging; February 9, 1:00-2:15 pm Facilitated by Marcus Brooks, Sr. Management Consultant & Trainer and Tanya Grove, Sr. Management Consultant Communications As a result of this track of communicating in remote, onsite, and hybrid work environments, you will learn: Effective techniques for facilitating business meetings The importance of listening and techniques for effective listening Cornell's expectations on giving and receiving feedback and strategies to do that well How to approach and manage difficult conversations 1: HR 3055 Managing and Facilitating Meetings; January 24, 9:30-10:45 am 2: HR 3056 Effective Listening; January 31, 9:00-10:15 am 3: HR 3057 Giving and Receiving Effective Feedback; February 14, 2:30-3:45 pm 4: HR 3058 Difficult Conversations; February 24, 9:30-10:45 am Facilitated by Marcus Brooks, Sr. Management Consultant & Trainer and Tanya Grove, Sr. Management Consultant Leadership Development Supervising@Cornell is designed to be flexible – to help individuals get the information they want, when they need it. It isn't a one-time training: it's an ongoing commitment to developing the best in ourselves and our staff. This online program enables each individual to access the resources available at Cornell University, at their own pace and on their own schedule, wherever they are. Whether you’re already a supervisor, have recently become a supervisor, or wish to move into a supervisory role at Cornell, the Supervisory Development Program (SDP) provides a broad range of training opportunities to advance and hone your skills. Leadership@Cornell While effective leaders have always had to inspire and execute, the ways in which we practice and demonstrate leading calls for a new approach. Today’s best leaders use higher forms of motivation such as intrinsic reward, sense of belonging, understanding how people connect to the mission of the organization, influence, and even love. Successful leaders attract the best talent by bringing every individual’s genius and capacities together to get results. They transform average workers into outstanding contributors. At Cornell we want leaders to focus on being conscious leaders, using emotional intelligence, unleashing the power of their teams, creating and maintain a highly functional team, seeing around corners, navigating the Work/Life journey, and coaching for performance. Click here to see detailed information about each module. Being a Conscious Leader February 9, 9:30-11:30 am or February 14, 1:00-3:00 pm Emotional Intelligence February 22, 1:00-3:00 pm or March 2, 9:30-11:30 am Unleashing the Power of Your Team March 2, 1:00-3:30 pm or March 9, 9:30-11:30 am Creating and Maintaining a Highly Functional Team March 14, 1-3 pm or March 23, 9:30-11:30am Seeing Around Corners April 4, 1:00-3:00 pm or April 7, 9:00-11:00 am Navigating Your Work/Life Journey April 11, 2:30-4:00 pm or Apr4il 14, 9:30-11:00 am Coaching for Performance April 20, 9:30-11:30 am or April 25, 2:00-4:00 pm Turning Point Program Fee: $260 A 5-day front-line staff leadership development program designed for members of Cornell University. This program focuses on individuals as leaders, individual effectiveness, the power of dialogue and communication, personal mastery, and leadership within the Cornell culture. Harold D. Craft Leadership Program (HDCLP) Program Fee: $355 The Harold D. Craft Leadership Program (HDCLP) is the first session of a 9-day leadership program. The second 4-day advanced session is Building Teams & Leading Change. HDCLP focuses on individuals as leaders, individual effectiveness, the power of dialogue and communication, personal mastery, & leadership within the Cornell culture. Executive HDCLP is for Band H, I, and unbanded staff. Leader as Coach March 28-31; 4 consecutive days: 8:30 am-12 pm each day Leader as Coach focuses on the supervisor or leader as coach based on the 2002-19 Presence-Based Coaching model. After the course, you'll have access to follow-up coaching sessions providing the opportunity for skill mastery by putting all your learning and intentions into practice. Objectives: Learn the principles of coaching Understand the importance of supervisor as coach Utilize a coaching model to help individuals discover their personal and professional potential Leverage mindful-based coaching strategies as a leader Develop relationship and establish trust Explore personal biases, cultural influences and learn to consciously coach across differences Open to faculty, supervisors and staff who are responsible for the work of others as supervisors or project or program managers and who have attended the Faculty Leadership Program, Chair Program, Harold D. Craft Leadership Program or Turning Point as the program builds on concepts from those programs. Facilitated by Kathryn Burkgren, Ph.D., AVP Organizational Development & Effectiveness; Tanya Grove, Sr. Management Consultant and Ari Mack, Organizational Development Consultant Accounting & Finance The following Division of Financial Affairs (DFA) classes are available through June 2021 and are open to any person interested in learning more about Cornell accounting/finance policies. Please register via CULearn (click the registration link in the description below to view open class dates, times and locations). For questions regarding these courses, contact Steve Jackson at sbj1@cornell.edu. All classes are held REMOTELY until further notice. Do not go to the DFA Training Room. DFA Accounting Certification Program Anyone in a service center role is required to complete the Accounting Certification Program within 18 months of employment and re-certify every 3 years. The Accounting Certification Program (ACP) helps employees develop and enhance accounting skills and knowledge by providing an overview of the accounting function, as well as detailed training on the use of specific accounting tools and their associated policies and procedures. The ACP is constantly growing/changing. As core courses become available, you can take them individually and apply them to the certification. To obtain credit for the course and eventual certification, staff members taking any ACP core course must pass an open-book exam for each class. The following courses will be part of the redesigned program (you must take one elective). See the individual course pages for more information. Also see below for a description of these and other classes. Cornell Accounting 101 FIN 101 Policy Considerations in Accounting FIN 104 Financial Stewardship and Ethical Conduct FIN 108 Unallowable Expenses FIN 111 Processing Capital Assets and Physical Inventory (elective) FIN 114 Financial Management of Sponsored Projects (Part 1 and Part 2) FIN 115 Financial Reporting Dashboard, Sponsored Financial Activity (elective) FIN 202 Reconciliation of Assets and Liabilities and Monitoring Operating Accounts FIN 203 Internal Controls at Cornell University KFSIDR 1040 The Wonderful World of WebFin II (elective) KFSIDR 1050 Using KFS Dashboards to Manage Accounts and Transactions RMI 100 Everything You Wanted to Know About Risk Management and Insurance Register for the DFA Accounting Certification Program (all classes are listed in one place for ease of registration) Cornell Accounting 101 This course is for staff members who work with accounting information or who are new to Cornell accounting methods. The three-session program uses a mixture of online and traditional classroom learning. There is an online, open-book exam after each session (a total of 3 exams) that must be completed along with all three sessions to receive credit. Exams do not need to be completed before attending the next session. Session I: An online prerequisite for sessions II and III, this session provides an online introduction to accounting topics and policies such as the accounting equation; assets, liabilities, and fund balance accounting; debits and credits; ethics; compliance and methods, the Cornell accounting structure; and commonly used accounting terms. Approximate completion time is 20-30 minutes (not including the exam). Session II: This classroom session will cover topics such as debits and credits; organizations (orgs) and the org structure; account types; the Cornell accounting string (account, sub-account, object codes, sub-object codes, project codes, org ref ID); restriction classifications (unrestricted, temporarily, permanently); account attributes (fund, sub-fund, sub-fund program); and higher education function codes. Session III: This classroom session will tie together the topics covered in Session II by reviewing KFS, including creating/updating an account; creating a sub-account; creating a sub-object code; closing accounts; viewing account balances; understanding general ledger (GL) pending entries and self-balancing accounts; measuring accounting information; accounting fiscal periods; reporting accounting information (dashboards and Web Financials II). Instructors Accounting staff members and Steve Jackson, ODTM Register for ACCT 101 FIN 101: Policy Considerations at Cornell FIN 101: Policy Considerations at Cornell comes back to life from the pre-KFS days in this new, self-paced online course that covers several university policies, including 3.14, Business Expenses; 4.2, Transaction Authority and Payment Approval; and 4.6, Standards of Ethical Conduct; along with various citizenship and tax information. Register for FIN 101 FIN 104: Financial Stewardship and Ethical Conduct For all staff members who work with accounting information and who are new to Cornell accounting methods, this class will cover topics including responsibilities for stewardship and fiduciary responsibility at the university, types of accountability, policy resources, standards of ethical conduct, transaction authority reviews and payment approvals, conflicts, financial irregularities, internal controls, risk assessment and monitoring controls. We will also review several case studies based on the material presented. Instructors Cornell University Audit Office staff members Register for FIN 104 FIN 108: Unallowable Expenses Suggested Prerequisite: Accounting 101 (see above) or a minimum of 3-6 months experience working with Cornell accounts. This course defines allowable and unallowable costs from the vantage point of the university and the federal government. Excerpts from the new Uniform Guidance (2 CFR 200) will be discussed in detail. Other topics include how to code federal unallowable transactions, how federal unallowable costs affect the facilities and administrative rate calculation, and the review process for federal unallowable costs. Instructors DFA Cost and Capital Assets staff members and Steve Jackson, ODTM Register for FIN 108 FIN 111Processing Capital Assets and Physical Inventory This class will provide an overview of the capital assets policy and thresholds. Topics covered include Cornell’s definition of a capital asset; the importance of keeping capital asset records current; handling sponsor-owned equipment; tagging assets; and working with the surplus and disposal processes. KFS topics include pre-asset tagging, editing assets, transferring assets, loaning or returning equipment, fabrication of assets, retiring assets, and conducting the barcode inventory process. (This course replaces KFSCAM-600.) Instructors Capital Assets staff members Register for FIN 111 FIN 112Processing Capital Assets and Physical Inventory This course/tutorial covers a variety of Cornell policies and procedures for managing and accounting for leases including the decision making needed to identify leases and non-leases. Register for FIN 112 FIN 114: Financial Management of Sponsored Projects NOTE: Effective Fall 2020 this is a two-part program. Please make sure you pay attention to class dates and times because they will be on separate days. This two-part course will provide a foundation for managing sponsored projects. Part 1: Sponsored Financial-Managing Sponsored Projects is an overview of sponsored projects, including the life cycle, research administration at Cornell, and general principles surrounding oversight of a project. 1.5 hours. For those who have completed Research Administration Certification Program (RACP), Part I is not required but you still need to register for the entire course, attend Part 2, and pass the exam. Part 2: Sponsored Financial-Managing Sponsored Accounts is an overview of project accounts associated with a sponsored activity. Includes time for testing and reviewing accounts in the Kuali Financial System. 1.5 hours. This course is the foundation for Financial Management of Sponsored Activity and a prerequisite for these courses in this suite: FIN 115 Sponsored Financial-Financial Reporting Dashboard (Sponsored Financial Activity) FIN 116 Sponsored Financial-Post Award Administration Requirements (Online Modules) Instructors Sponsored Financial Services staff members Register for FIN 114 FIN 115: Financial Reporting Dashboard, Sponsored Financial Activity We strongly encourage you to complete (or be currently taking) FIN 114 Financial Management of Sponsored Projects before taking this course. This course is an overview of the Sponsored Financial Activity dashboard, which presents financial activity associated with sponsored projects. You will learn how to analyze your project by reviewing the current financial status and monitoring activity on a regular basis. Attendees should have general dashboard knowledge (completed KFSIDR-1050) and an interest (current or future) in managing sponsored activity. Access to this dashboard follows the general accounting role and may be restricted by local college access. Instructors Sponsored Financial Services staff members Register for FIN 115 FIN 116: Financial Reporting Dashboard, Sponsored Financial Activity We strongly encourage you to complete (or be currently taking) FIN 114 Financial Management of Sponsored Projects before taking this course. This course comprises thirteen distinct online modules and provides an overview of Uniform Guidance Post-Award Federal Requirements. You will learn how to manage and navigate post-award financial administration of a sponsored project. Topics include administrative rules, budget analysis, cost principles, salary certification, participant costs, equipment, cost share, indirect costs, subawards, program income and financial monitoring. Register for FIN 116 FIN 118: Determining the Facilities & Administrative (F&A) Cost Rate This program provides greater understanding of the development of the Facilities and Administrative (F&A) cost rate and will be valuable for those working with sponsored grants and contracts or managing F&A recoveries at a college or university level. The session will provide an overview of the processes involved in developing the F&A cost rate, including the impact of coding of accounts, the treatment of unallowable expenses and activities, the impact of cost sharing, the importance of properly coding space usage, and a case study of how the numbers are all put together. Register for FIN 118 FIN 201: Developing User Fees for Service Facilities and Recharge Operations This workshop provides to recharge operation and service facility managers the background and knowledge necessary to develop accurate, equitable, and compliant user fees. Topics covered include key definitions, relevant regulations and policies, key requirements of University Policy 3.10, Recharge Entities, the difference between recharge operations and service facilities, which costs can and cannot be recovered through user fees, how to calculate user fees, how to handle subsidies (user fee and user subsidies), applicable accounting procedures, the review and approval process, and common problems/deficiencies. Instructors Nancy Abbott, Cost and Capital Assets Register for FIN 201 FIN 202: Reconciliation of Assets and Liabilities and Monitoring Operating Accounts Prerequisites: Accounting 101 and KFSIDR-1050 This class is for staff members responsible for monitoring revenue and expenses for Cornell, state, federal or contract and grants accounts, as well as performing account reconciliations. This three-hour class provides guidelines for reconciling asset and liability object codes and monitoring revenue and expense activity. It will define the difference between a reconciliation and activity monitoring, as well as cover risk assessment, properly recording sales tax, correcting unknown variances, and writing off uncollectible receivables. During the class, we will be using the KFS Dashboards and hands-on exercises to reinforce reconciliation techniques and strategies. Instructors DFA Accounting staff members Register for FIN 202 FIN 203: Internal Controls at Cornell University All Cornell University employees have a role to play within the university’s internal control framework. This introductory course explains internal controls in general along with the employee’s responsibilities for internal controls within Cornell’s framework. Topics include the definition of internal controls and why are they important, an overview of Cornell’s internal control framework, challenges that may exist and how to manage them, and key controls. Instructors DFA Accounting staff member Register for FIN 203 KFSIDR 1040: The Wonderful World of WebFin2 Prerequisite: You must have KFS Accounting Dashboards access when registering for this class. If you do not, request access for the KFS Staff Accounting role in Cynergy from your business service center. Learn how to use the full power of the WebFin2 dashboard to meet your reporting needs. This hands-on class is designed for staff members with accounting responsibilities who need to review and monitor transactionaland summary-level data at the individual account level. Topics discussed include viewing account balances, year-to-date and inception-to-date summary reports, reviewing transactions, drilling from summary reports to transaction details, understanding encumbrances, and using the WebFin2 Account Notes feature. Users with KFS Labor access will learn how to interpret the summary/name detail views provided in many reports. Many custom navigation features of this dashboard will be explained. Users will learn how to answer common questions such as: Do I have enough money in my account to make this purchase? How can I find if any of my accounts are in overdraft status? Where can I find information on remaining PO and labor encumbrance balances? How does my account compare to budget? What salaries have been charged to my account? What was purchased at the campus store? We will also cover the extensive OBIEE dashboard tools available, such as changing the sort order and column order in reports, moving report columns to create custom filters and report breaks, adding sub-totals to existing reports, hiding columns to redesign dashboard report format; and saving customized reports for future use. Instructors Tim Pollard (CIT) and DFA staff members Register for KFSIDR 1040 KFSIDR-1050: Using KFS Dashboards to Manage Accounts and Transactions Prerequisite: Using KFS Dashboards Overview Tutorial (KFSIDR-1000DASH-Tutorial) This class combines the previous KFSIDR-1000 and KFSIDR-1100 classes. This hands-on class is designed for transaction specialists who need to review, monitor, and report on transactional activity in their accounts. Learn how to use the financials dashboards to find transactions posted to your accounts, including using page selectors to request data specific to your needs; changing column and sort order; sub-totaling; hiding columns to redesign dashboard report format; and saving customized reports for future use. It is also designed for account representatives and finance specialists who need to manage budget and financial activity in their accounts. Learn how to use the financials dashboards to find funds available, balances for accounts in your organization, and compare financial activity against budgeted allocations. Answer questions such as, Do I have enough money in my account to make this purchase? How can I find if any of my accounts are in overdraft status? How can I monitor asset and liability balances? Where can I find information on remaining PO encumbrance balances? We will also cover changing the sort order in reports, moving report columns to change the display, and adding subtotals to existing reports. Instructors Steve Jackson, ODTM and Financial Systems and Information Delivery (FSAID) staff Register for KFSIDR 1050 RMI 100: Everything You Wanted to Know about Risk Management and Insurance Risk Management is everyone's responsibility. In this class, you will learn how the risk management process can help you become a more effective steward and protect the human, physical, and financial assets of the university. You will gain an understanding of the university's insurance programs, the claim process, and the university policies that are impacted by risk management. Other topics covered include risk identification, risk rates and exclusions, the cost of allocation, emergency planning and business continuity, insurance claims and incident reporting, deductibles, contractors (paying for services), architects and engineers, certificates of insurance and risk, foreign travel and travel risks, sexual harassment, rental cars, contract risks, use of university property, and use of alcohol. Instructors Risk Management and Insurance staff members Register for RMI 100 PAY 1000: Payroll Certification Program (NEW PROGRAM) PAY 1000 Payroll Certification This is a five course, six session program (PAY 101 is TWO sessions with a pre-session tutorial) that will help give you the skills you need to manage the administration of payroll and payroll functions effectively and efficiently. Topics include: An overview of Cornell Payroll and the payroll function Time Tracking including time tracking essentials and time tracking reports Absences and Leaves, Non Exempt Time Off Types, Adjusting Time Off Balances and Paid Time Off Leaves and Workday Time Tracking, Exempt Time Off and Payroll Understanding the Vacation Reset Process Time Clocks Working with Unions and Workday. Please view the Session Details for each course to see the available class dates and times. All classes will be virtual. Instructors Cornell University Payroll staff members Register for PAY 1000 PAY 104: Treaty Benefits and Taxation for Foreign Nationals This class is for staff members responsible for working with foreign nationals, dealing with visas, and making payments to foreign nationals. This is a two-part workshop. Part I is an online tutorial that covers common definitions, visa types, tax treaties and documentation pertaining to payment processing for foreign nationals. Part II is an instructor-led class where we will cover examples and case studies on topics such as determining if an individual is a foreign national; payment types to foreign nationals (honoraria, fee for services, stipends, and wages); and the types of documentation needed to receive treaty benefits and potential exemption from taxes. Participants will also review the Foreign National Questionnaire form and other required documents and backup material. Instructor Lori Kanellis, Tax Office Register for PAY 104 PUR 1000: Procurement Certification Program PUR 1000 Procurement Certification covers various aspects of the procurement process at Cornell. Participants will be guided through the purchasing decision process including identifying the appropriate payment method, selecting a vendor, processing a purchase order, identifying independent contractors, paying for services, and more. The program is a series of nine classes, five of which are required. There are four required classroom courses and one required tutorial and four electives. You must attend all required classes and complete all exams for certification. The classes required for certification include Procurement Overview (tutorial), The Basics of Cornell Procurement, Identifying Independent Contractors and Paying for Services, Processing Purchase Orders, and Contracts and Negotiations. The optional classes include Bid Solicitations, PCard Use for BSCs, Spend Viz, and e-SHOP. Instructors Cornell University staff members Register for PUR 1000 Travel 100 Creating Your Travel Profile in Concur This course will walk you through setting-up your traveler profile in Concur as well as cover the use of the Concur Mobile Apps and some high level travel policy information that pertains to the subject area Cornell University staff members Register for Travel 100 Travel 101 Booking Travel Profile in Concur This course will go over the booking travel process using Concur and will also cover using other ways to book travel and enter that information into the Concur travel system. Some high level travel policy information will also be presented. It is strongly recommended that the traveler already complete the TRAVEL 100 course prior to coming to this class. Cornell University staff members Register for Travel 101 Travel 102 Creating an Expense Report in Concur This course will go through the expense report from beginning to end for travelers needing to complete the travel reimbursement process using the Concur travel system. It is strongly recommended that the traveler already complete the TRAVEL 100 course prior to coming to this class. Cornell University staff members Register for Travel 102 Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.