Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Our Workplace / Flexible Work / Core Principles Core Principles Policy See Policy 6.6.13 Flexibility in the Workplace for further detail and guidance on flexible arrangements, including remote work. COVID-19 The university supports the exploration of continued flexible work options, including remote work, in situations when such working arrangements fully advance the educational, research and outreach missions of the university, or when such arrangements help advance the health and safety of our campus community. Core Principles Flexible work at Cornell is guided by a core set of principles, which are further explained below. The flexible work arrangement is appropriate for the position. This includes the work itself, the people served by the work, and department, unit, and university missions. The flexible work arrangement will have either a beneficial or net-neutral impact. Flexible work decisions are at the discretion of a college/unit’s leadership and are not grievable. The process for evaluating flexible work requests is equitable. Flexible work decisions are made without bias or favoritism. A flexible work arrangement will not cause an ongoing net hardship or a lesser experience for colleagues, students, etc. Flexible work arrangements should be documented and reviewed at least annually. A flexible work arrangement can be altered or discontinued at any time with a suggested notice period of no less than thirty (30) days. The flexible work arrangement is appropriate for the position. Not all types of flexible work will be suitable for every position. Some positions require an on-campus presence to serve students or other clients and customers, require the ability to work with others on campus at specific times and shifts, and/or involve tools, equipment or other apparatus that need to remain on campus. The flexible work arrangement will have either a beneficial or net-neutral impact. For flexible work arrangements to be approved, they should either enhance or maintain the individual’s impact on the educational, research and outreach missions of the university and the priorities and goals of their respective college/unit. Arrangements should not result in additional ongoing expenses for a college or unit. Flexible work decisions are at the discretion of a college/unit’s leadership and are not grievable. Although Cornell has many positions which are similar in their basic responsibilities, there can be great variance in priorities, services, customers, and environments across the institution. Given this reality, those best to make the determination about what level of flexibility a position can support are those directly responsible for the day-to-day management of the position. The process for evaluating flexible work requests is equitable. The process for making decisions regarding when, where, and how work gets done should always be equitable. This does not mean the resulting decisions will be equal, as there are many variables which can differ from situation to situation. Relevant evaluation criteria include, but are not limited to, the requirements of the position, the priorities of the unit, the individual’s ability to successfully perform the work in general and likelihood of success in the requested flexible work arrangement, and the potential impacts of the flexible work arrangement on co-workers, customers, and the overall department. The key to equity is a fair assessment process which is consistent and transparent and as such, colleges and units are encouraged to follow a consistent evaluation process. Flexible work decisions are made without bias or favoritism. All flexible work decisions should be evaluated based on business merit and free from any personal biases or preferences. One of the best strategies to avoid bias is to include more than one person, such as both the manager and HR Rep, in evaluating all requests. It is also helpful to regularly review decisions across a work unit to ensure consistency in the criteria used, the decision-making process and resulting outcomes. A flexible work arrangement will not cause an ongoing net hardship or a lesser experience for colleagues, students, etc. A flexible work arrangement should not have an ongoing negative downstream impact on another person or area. This includes situations such as when a remote arrangement creates an ongoing increase in workload for others located onsite or when a customer would realize greater benefit from an in-person rather than virtual interaction. As always, departments can rearrange work responsibilities, either temporarily or on an ongoing basis, to accommodate flexible work arrangements, where it makes sense. Approved flexible work arrangements should be documented. Cornell previously required all flexible work arrangements to have a documented agreement on file. Beginning in September 2021, the Workday Human Resources system will be able to track all forms of flexible work arrangements. At that time, all approved arrangements should be entered into Workday, which will serve as the formal documentation of agreements moving forward. Those working from non-commutable distances to campus should still have a written agreement in place, in addition to the Workday documentation. As with all their employees, managers should provide clear performance and communication expectations as well as regular performance feedback for employees on flexible work arrangements. Flexible work arrangements should be reviewed regularly (recommended at least annually) and updated as needed to continue meeting both the business and individual needs. A flexible work arrangement can be changed or discontinued at any time. Flexible work arrangements are entered into because they meet both the individual and organizational needs at the time they are proposed. Sometimes these needs will no longer be aligned and thus the arrangement will no longer be viable. It is best practice that at least one month’s notice is provided if a department/unit decides to discontinue a flexible work arrangement to provide an employee with ample time to make any personal arrangements needed to adjust to the change. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.