Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Events & Schedule Guest Information Student Information Faculty Volunteer Resources Home May December Office of Commencement Events Commencement planning resource for families, students, faculty, staff, and volunteers Events & Schedule Guest Information Student Information Faculty Volunteer Resources May Commencement Weekend May 27-29, 2022 May Commencement WeekendToggle the sub-menu Events & ScheduleToggle the sub-menu Commencement CeremoniesToggle the sub-menu Severe Weather Plan University PhD Ceremony College Events Convocation and Senior Days Guest InformationToggle the sub-menu Accessibility Planning Dining Lodging Parking & Directions Student InformationToggle the sub-menu Cap & Gown Volunteer Faculty ResourcesToggle the sub-menu Contact Us HomeMay Commencement WeekendVolunteer Volunteer VOLUNTEERING at the Two (2) University Commencement Ceremonies and/or the PhD Event 2022 Thank you for volunteering to help at either of the University Commencement Ceremonies and/or the PhD event during the May 2022 Commencement Weekend. We cannot support our students and their guests without your help! We have a variety of roles to fill at either 1, 2, or 3 events. Whether you prefer to walk, sit, or to be indoors or out, we’re happy to help find an enjoyable role perfect for you. Please let us know. Click on the gray bars below for more details and how to sign up to help. Thank you! Benefits of Volunteering When you help to make graduation weekend special for our students & families, you may enjoy the following in return: Paid day off to use by 12/31/22 for volunteering at either of the University Commencement Ceremonies or the PhD event. Refer to “Volunteer Recognition” section. Thank you gift of 75 Awardco points for volunteering at either or both of the 2 Commencement ceremonies, 40 Awardco points if only volunteering at the PhD event, or 75 Points for volunteering at either or both of the 2 Commencement ceremonies AND the PhD event. In addition, for each event, you’ll receive 2 movie tickets. Refer to “Volunteer Recognition” section. Awardco points are a wonderful gift to use to “buy” anything you would like, by shopping at Amazon or the Cornell Store. Your points equal the dollar value, point for dollar. Points never expire and roll over every year. There are no tax implications for any values. You’ll receive an email a few weeks after Commencement with more details. Enjoy shopping for anything with your points! Awardco Information here. Share your Cornell pride with our graduates and families after the unusual past 2 years! Quick Volunteer Recognition Reference Table: 1st Commencement Ceremony 2nd Commencement Ceremony PhD Event Comp Day Off # of Awardco Points # of Movie Tickets Yes No No 1 75 2 No Yes No 1 75 2 Yes Yes No 1 75 4 No No Yes 1 40 2 Yes Yes Yes 1 75 6 Yes No Yes 1 75 4 No Yes Yes 1 75 4 Volunteer Roles & Details COMMENCEMENT CEREMONIES Saturday, May 28, 2022 VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES AT TWO (2) UNIVERSITY COMMENCEMENT CEREMONIES 2022 All volunteers MUST check-in at the Fischell Band Building Gates open at 8:00am and 12:30pm All volunteers MUST check-in at the Fischell Band Building All volunteers receive: -Cornell cloth baseball hat -N95 face masks for those who wish to wear them during shifts -Button name tag -Red Jacket to wear -2 movie tickets per event All staff receive the following benefits: -1 Comp Day off for volunteering at any of the 3 events -75 Awardco points total for volunteering at 1 and/or 2 Commencement Ceremonies OR -75 Awardco points total for volunteering at 1 and/or 2 Commencement Ceremonies AND PhD event Area Assignment & Group Leader: Duties: Arts Quad Procession 1st Ceremony 7:00a - 12:00p and or 2nd Ceremony 11:00a - 4:00p Corey Earle 607-279-6585 cre8@cornell.ed -Assist students to line up on the Arts Quad by college -Assist the student banner bearers for each college & walk beside to the stadium -Assist the Faculty to line up on the Arts Quad -Assist Platform Party to form review area and join the procession -Once all seated at stadium, ushers will be asked to assist elsewhere in the stadium during the ceremony -Help form recessional after the ceremony 40 people needed Field Seating 1st Ceremony 7:00a - 12:00p and or 2nd Ceremony 11:00a - 4:00p Bob Talda 607-592-1699 rpt4@cornell.edu -Guide students & faculty to specific seating locations on Schoellkopf Field -Distribute programs to students -Help form recessional after the ceremony 30 people needed North West Entrance (Chute) 1st Ceremony 7:00a - 12:00p and or 2nd Ceremony 11:00a - 4:00p Karli Buday 724-766-2632 ksb95@cornell.edu -Direct guests along Campus Road to go up to the Crescent -Answer guest questions -Assist as needed with guests going to the south end zone -Direct the procession down the NW driveway "chute" thru the large gate, on to the field 15 people needed Crescent Gates & Crescent Lot 1st Ceremony 7:00a - 12:00p and or 2nd Ceremony 11:00a - 4:00p Don Sevey 607-255-0857 dds29@cornell.edu -Direct guests in bus unloading area at Crescent Lot -Help queue guests at the bag check area -Answer guest questions -Count guests at all the gates & entrances with clickers 50 people needed Accessible Parking & Seating 1st Ceremony 7:00a - 12:00p and or 2nd Ceremony 11:00a - 4:00p Mark Howe 607-255-1523 mjh69@cornell.edu -Direct guests entering Hoy Garage to the 3rd level -Help unload guests with limited mobility in wheelchairs, walkers, scooters, crutches etc. -Assist guests who need a wheelchair ride, from the mid point on the West Concourse to the field, south end zone -Assist guests sitting in the South end zone seating area -Answer guest questions 40 people needed Crescent Seating & Concourse 1st Ceremony 7:00a - 12:00p and or 2nd Ceremony 11:00a - 4:00p Jenn Davis 607-592-2121 jd49@cornell.edu -Direct guests to seating areas in the Crescent -Answer guest questions, assist as needed -Direct guests to safe movement and seating in the Crescent 50 people needed Tanner Terrace 1st Ceremony 7:00a - 12:00p and or 2nd Ceremony 11:00a - 4:00p June Losurdo 607-351-8473 jml235@cornell.edu GROUP IS FILLED NOW Golf Cart Driver 1st Ceremony 7:00a - 12:00p and or 2nd Ceremony 11:00a - 4:00p Mike Baker 607-255-7480 meb84@cornell.edu GROUP IS FILLED NOW Information Booths 1st Ceremony 7:00a - 12:00p and or 2nd Ceremony 11:00a - 4:00p Cheryl McGraw 607-351-1941 crm54@cornell.edu -Staff an Information Table and answer student & visitor's questions at locations away from the stadium -Help coordinate assistance with golf cart group -It will be helpful to have knowledge of the campus to direct guests to college events before & after the Commencement ceremonies. 12 people needed Volunteer Check-In 1st Ceremony 7:00a - 12:00p and or 2nd Ceremony 11:00a - 4:00p Margaret Gallo 607-220-4332 mmg3@cornell.edu GROUP IS FILLED NOW. VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES at the University PhD Ceremony Barton Hall Saturday, May 28, 2022 Time commitment 3:00p - 7:00p All volunteers MUST check-in at Barton Hall All volunteers receive: -Cornell cloth baseball hat -N95 face masks for those who wish to wear them during shift. Masks are strongly encouraged at this indoor event, but it is a personal choice. -Button name tag -Red Jacket to wear -2 movie tickets per event All staff receive the following benefits: -1 Comp Day off for volunteering at any of the 3 University events - 40 Awardco points for volunteering at PhD event only OR - 75 Awardco points total for volunteering at 1 and/or 2 University Commencement Ceremonies AND PhD event Area Assignment: Duties: Student name card distribution, lineup grads and guide the procession -Hand out name cards to students & assist getting all in line for the procession in Barton Hall -Help guide the procession and collect name cards after students are seated -Help form recessional after the ceremony 15 people needed Guest Seating -Guide guests to seating locations in Barton Hall -Distribute programs to seating areas -Help form recessional after ceremony 15 people needed Guest Entrances -Direct guests entering Barton Hall -Direct guests after bag check area 15 people needed Sign-up is now OPEN Click here to complete the volunteer form to help at either or both of the University Commencement Ceremonies and/or the PhD event on Saturday, May 28. Thank you! Information you need to know Public Health Protocols We will have masks available for those who wish to wear them at the outdoor university Commencement ceremonies. Volunteers are strongly encouraged to wear a mask at the indoor PhD event, but it is a personal choice. Are you an employee who currently works remotely and plans to volunteer for Commencement Weekend? Be sure to update your campus status via the online form accessed on your Daily Check homepage. Click on the blue bar in the Change Your Campus Status/Testing Section OR reach out to your HR representative as soon as possible. The online form is routed to an HR representative for approval, which may take several days to be processed. Please submit this change a week or 2 before Commencement Weekend. What to wear We are providing a light-weight red jacket for all to wear. If you have your own red jacket you may wear it. You may wear dark colored slacks, jeans, or skirt. Plan to wear comfortable shoes and clean tennis shoes are fine. We will have masks available for those who wish to wear them. Masks are strongly encouraged at the indoor PhD event. Name tag/button provided at check-in. Be prepared for possibly spending several hours in the sun or steady rain. Bring sunscreen, sunglasses, umbrella, poncho, or jacket. There won’t be safe storage for personal items at the Band Building, but you may wear a small backpack or fanny pack. Parking: Campus Roads will close at 6:30 am. Campus Road from College Ave. to Wing Drive, Hoy Rd from Campus Rd. to the garage entrance, Garden between Campus and Tower Rd., and Feeney Way from Campus Rd. to University Ave. Buses will begin to shuttle people from B Lot to Crescent Lot at 7:00 am. Volunteers are allowed to park in the B Lot, surrounding lots by Vet School, and South Morrison Lot, and ride the bus to Crescent Lot. It’s a very short walk across the lot to the Fischell Band Building to check-in. Hoy Parking Garage is also available for volunteers, with a yellow permit from the Commencement Office. You will only be able to enter the lower entrance to the garage on Hoy Rd from Rt 366, as all other roads will be closed by 6:30 am. Please park in the upper levels to leave room in the 1st 4 levels for accessible guest parking. Check-in Procedure Check-in Procedure Please go to the Fischell Band Building at the Crescent Lot to check-in starting at 7 am for the 1st Ceremony. This is a very different location and replaces the “Schoellkopf Usher Locker rooms” that we used in the past, before COVID. All volunteer information will be in Fischell Band Building. You MUST officially check in at the Fischell Band Building, Crescent Lot, prior to each of the two Commencement Ceremonies that you are volunteering. You MUST check-in at the start of both shifts. Checking in per event is REQUIRED for all volunteers. Please review the times listed by your group, in the “Volunteer Roles & Details” section. The time to arrive at Volunteer check-in is the 1st time listed. 7 a.m. – 11:00 p.m. indicates to arrive at 7 a.m. for the 1st ceremony. 11:00 a.m. – 4:00p.m. indicates arriving at 11 a.m. for the 2nd ceremony. Thank you! Check-in for the PhD Event will be done in Barton Hall at 3:00 p.m. Must show photo ID A box lunch will be provided for volunteers working both Commencement Ceremonies. Please plan to bring your own snacks if you have special dietary needs. Water will be provided to all. COVID-19 Guidance for Commencement Weekend On-Campus Testing Sites: Robert Purcell Community Center (RPCC) and East Hill Plaza testing sites will be open from 10am-2pm on Saturday and Sunday, May 28 and 29, to distribute antigen test kits to Cornell community members with a Cornell NetID. Please bring photo ID to pick up a kit. These sites will not be open for PCR testing on Saturday and Sunday. Note: All on-campus sites will be closed on Monday, May 30th. COVID-19 Guidance: In line with our COVID-19 prevention and mitigation goals for Commencement, Cornell University: Requires all guests, students, faculty and staff to wear high quality masks for all indoor gatherings, except when eating or drinking. Encourages Cornell students, faculty and staff to remain up-to-date with vaccines Encourages visitors to be fully vaccinated and up-to-date with boosters Expects visitors to test for COVID-19 before travelling to Ithaca Expects all who are in Ithaca to monitor for COVID-19-like symptoms before coming to campus and/or engaging in campus-related events Expects all who are in Ithaca and who are symptomatic to test for COVID-19 Expects all who are in Ithaca to isolate if diagnosed with COVID-19, or to quarantine if indicated, in line with county health department directives Encourages visitors to pack an antigen test or two, for use, if needed, while in Ithaca. To support these actions, Cornell University will: Provide masks free of charge to all program and event participants Provide hand sanitizer in dispensers across campus Provide testing upon request to all Cornell students, faculty, and staff Provide isolation support upon request to Cornell students Training All volunteers for the 2022 University Commencement Ceremonies and/or PhD event are expected to attend zoom training session(s). These will be recorded for viewing after, as well. Time spent in the training meeting which cuts across scheduled work hours should be considered time worked and recorded in Workday as such. Weather Both Commencement Ceremonies will be held outdoors at Schoellkopf Field on Saturday, even if it is raining, hot, or cold. However, if potentially dangerous weather, torrential downpour, high winds, lightning, or any other condition is deemed too unsafe to hold the ceremonies at Schoellkopf Field, we will enact our Severe Weather Plan and the ceremonies affected will be canceled and unable to be rescheduled. Please review the Severe Weather Plan for details. Volunteer Recognition Time-Off Guidelines for Volunteers at the 2022 University Commencement Ceremonies and PhD Recognition Event The Commencement Committee acknowledges and appreciates those who volunteer at the 2022 University Commencement Ceremonies and/or the PhD Recognition Event on May 28, 2022, and provides them with the following guidelines to ensure that volunteers are appropriately recognized by the following: All regular full-time or part-time non-exempt and exempt staff, including benefits-eligible temporary staff, who volunteer* at one of the 2022 University Commencement Ceremonies and/or PhD Recognition event will be granted paid time off equivalent to their standard work day. A total of one (1) day of paid time off will be provided even if the staff member volunteers at more than one University ceremony on Saturday, May 28. As a thank you to our staff volunteers who help with these two Commencement ceremonies and the PhD event, university leadership will offer the following recognition this year: One (1) complimentary paid day off equivalent to your standard workday. Note: There will be a 1 day maximum, regardless of the number of university events at which you volunteer. If volunteering at 1 and/or 2 Commencement ceremonies, you will receive 75 Awardco points total and 2 movie tickets per event. If volunteering at the PhD Recognition event, you will receive 2 movie tickets and, if only volunteering at the PhD Recognition event (and neither Commencement ceremony), you will receive 40 Awardco points total If volunteering at 1 and/or 2 Commencement ceremonies AND the PhD Recognition event, you will receive 75 Awardco points total and 2 movie tickets per event. Volunteers are encouraged to inform their immediate supervisors of their decision to volunteer. Volunteer assignments and Awardco points will be processed centrally. Therefore, all volunteers must sign up through the form listed in the sign-up section above. *Non-exempt employees who are not assisting in an entirely voluntary capacity must be paid for all hours worked during the 2022 University Commencement Ceremonies and/or PhD Recognition Event whether those hours fall outside their normal work schedules and/or result in overtime. Such work hours must be accurately reported in Workday. In this case, a non-exempt employee will not receive the paid day off or the Awardco points as outlined above. We welcome Cornell retirees and friends and relatives of staff to volunteer, and they will receive 2 movie tickets for each event where they volunteer. If a volunteer is not a Cornell University employee or is a County Extension Association employee, these time-off guidelines do not apply but they will receive 2 movie tickets for each event where they volunteer. All volunteers for the 2022 University Commencement Ceremonies and/or PhD Recognition event are expected to attend zoom orientation(s) to be scheduled during the week of the event. Zoom meeting information will be sent to those who sign up to volunteer. Use of Paid Time Off/Workday Procedure The paid time off should be scheduled so as not to disrupt normal work activities and must be approved by the volunteer’s immediate supervisor. This must be used by December 31, 2022. Staff should request “Volunteer – Commencement Time Off” via a time off request in Workday for the day it is used. Please note that non-exempt volunteer staff should not record any time in Workday for their volunteer hours at either University commencement ceremony or the PhD event on May 28. If you have questions about time collection, please contact your payroll representative. Exempt employees should use the paid time off according to the procedure established within their department to track time off, as there is no method for recording the one (1) day as Commencement paid time off for exempt staff in Workday. College/Department Commencement Events These guidelines apply to the University Commencement ceremonies and the PhD Event, not to college or department level commencement events. Guidelines, procedures, and requirements for college or department commencement events differ from those described here for University events. If you are assisting with college or department level commencement events, please consult your appropriate college contact (e.g. supervisor, college registrar, HR or Payroll representative) for further information. Please contact Lauran Jacoby, Workforce Policy and Labor Relations, at lj14@cornell.edu or hrpolicy@cornell.edu with any questions. Contact Us Office of University Commencement Events B13 Day Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 commencement@cornell.edu May Future Dates May 27-29, 2022 May 26-28, 2023 May 24-26, 2024 May 23-25, 2025 December Future Dates Sunday, December 18, 2022 Sunday, December 17, 2023 Sunday, December 22, 2024 Sunday, December 21, 2025 © 2022 Cornell University Web Accessibility Help Hosted by CampusPress Top