Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Working During COVID-19 University Response Repopulation Fall 2021 Daily Check Testing OTC Test Coverage Quarantine & Isolation Vaccination Accommodations & Leaves Pay & Time Travel FSA Impacts Financial Cost Measures 2021 Financial Payments Managing People Visitors On Campus Working on Campus Visiting Campus Supervisor Guide: Returning Employees Working Remotely Equipment & Workspace Expectations Working Outside NYS Managing Remote Teams Hybrid Work Gatherings Self Care & Support Benefits Wellbeing Parenting & Caregiving Community Resources Home / Working During COVID-19 / Self Care & Support / Community Resources Community Resources Check this page regularly as content is updated frequently! Also see: The Employee Wellbeing Update weekly newsletter for new articles and links to support employees, managers, and their families . Visit the Parenting & Caregiving Resources page with comprehesive support for families and caregivers. Resources for families in NYC by Power of Two, updated frequently. Preparedness Preparing yourself, household members, and your home for health and other emergencies is always a good thing to do. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) offers this guidance at Get Your Home Ready for COVID-19. How to Protect Yourself from COVID-19 (CDC) How to make a cloth face covering and when/how to wear it correctly (CDC) Pet preparedness (NYC Emergency Management) Options for Poor Wi-Fi or Cellular Service Physical, Emotional, and Mental Wellbeing Health Plan Coverage Options Please be aware of these benefit improvements and additions, including telemedicine, telecounseling, and financial assistance, now available to Cornell benefits-eligible employees. Special Benefit Considerations During COVID-19 Additional Cornell Resources ENI Confidential Counseling Services – 1-800-327-2255 – provides services at no cost for up to three visits to benefits-eligible employees and family members. Available 24/7, licensed mental health professionals provide phone or in-person counseling for a variety of stressors and needs. Faculty and Staff Assistance Program – fsap@cornell.edu, 607-255-2673 - benefits-eligible employees, retirees, and spouses/partners may contact the FSAP by phone to obtain free support. If the volume of calls exceeds the FSAP’s ability to respond in a timely fashion, please consider contacting ENI (above). FSAP is now offering virtual sessions for employees. Coping with the COVID-19 Pandemic (pdf)– guidance from the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Cornell Wellness – remote access to programs and services available, including new offerings for fitness, meditation, and more – wellness@cornell.edu, wellness.cornell.edu Virtual Wellness Resources List - Explore the many ways to improve and/or maintain your physical wellbeing in the comfort and safety of your home for low to no cost. National and local resources for virtual sessions, videos, and Apps. Office of the University Ombudsman - The Office of the University Ombudsman offers a safe place where community members may discuss problems or issues within the University. Remote appointments available. Cornell Cancer Support Group – facilitated by the Cancer Resource Center of the Finger Lakes - Meets virtually the second Wednesday of each month, 11:45-12:45 pm. Open to faculty, staff, students, and retirees who have been diagnosed with any type of cancer. An opportunity to meet one another, create a community of support, and learn about resources. Cornell Cooperative Extension - online workshops, local food information, and family resources. Domestic Violence & Intimate Partner/Family Violence Resources New York State Hotline 1-800-942-6906 Residents of Tompkins County: Advocacy Center of Tompkins County 607-277-5000 Child Development Council Warm Line – Confidential parenting help (Tompkins: 607-273-3141, Cortland: 607-753-0119) New York Court System Coronavirus Hotline – 833-503-0447 Safety Planning Clinic to End Tech Abuse - NYC Campuses Text 1-844-997-2121 to get help from a domestic violence expert Visit NYS Domestic Violence website to chat privately with an expert Substance Abuse There are many reasons that substance abuse can increase in times of crisis – both the development of new substance abuse and a reoccurrence of past substance abuse. Providers and organizations (such as the ones below) remain available to support individuals and their family members: Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) - Virtual meetings Alcohol & Drug Council, 607-274-6288 | Providing outpatient treatment, individual/group counseling sessions, and referrals. Cayuga Addiction Recovery Services, 607-273-5500 | Accepting referrals, conducting assessments and appointments via telehealth, and open for admissions for residence care. Finger Lakes Area Counseling & Recovery Agency, 833-435-2272 | Treatment and recovery services NYC: Alcohol & Drug Use Resources U.S. SAMHSA’s National Helpline, 1-800-662-4357 | Confidential, free, 24/7, English and Spanish, for individuals and family members facing mental and/or substance use disorders. Al-Anon and Ala-Teen, 607-387-5701 | for families and friends of alcoholics (virtual meetings) Adult Children of Alcoholics (ACA) | for adult children of alcoholics and/or otherwise dysfunctional homes (virtual meetings) Community Resources 2-1-1 Tompkins/Cortland is now reachable by text. Information and referral services now just a text message away! Just text your zip code to TXT211 or 898211. Texting is available Monday-Friday from 9 am to 4 pm. Call for free and safe rides to Tompkins testing site. COVID - Tompkins Immediate Needs Facebook Group Suicide Prevention & Crisis Services of Ithaca – call 607-272-1616 or 800-273-8255 National Suicide Prevention Lifeline – 1-800-273-TALK Food & Deliveries Cornell Resources Cornell Food Pantry CCE Listing of Tompkins County Food Assistance Programs Healthy Food For All & Nourish Tompkins — Cooperative Extension of Tompkins County Since 2006, Healthy Food For All has been providing hundreds of low-income households every year with access to locally grown fruits and vegetables via Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) shares, coupled with nutrition and culinary education. During the pandemic, Nourish Tompkins was initiated to expand services to provide over 10,500 pounds of local produce and 2,000 healthy meals with hunger relief partners to thousands of food-insecure community members. For more info, contact Liz Karabinakis, Director, evk4@cornell.edu / 607-272-2292 x 242 Community Services FoodNet Meals on Wheels of Tompkins County – 607-266-9553, info@foodnet.org - various programs available to bring meals to seniors and/or individuals under the age of 60 who are ill and/or homebound. Fees vary. Find other Meals on Wheels services by searching NYConnects.ny.gov. Emergency Food Delivery Request (Tompkins County) Press Bay Friendship Food Pantry - Mondays from 3:00 – 5:00 pm Greater Ithaca Activities Center - Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1:00 -4:00 pm, Cornell distributes 45 lb food boxes containing non-perishables and sometimes perishables like frozen chicken cutlets, milk, and cheese. No application process or forms to complete. GIAC is located at 301 W. Court Street, Ithaca. COVID-19 Food Resources in Tompkins County Food Sharing Cabinet Locations Neighborhood Food Hubs - Friendship Donations Network Tompkins County COVID-19 Food Task Force coordinates the efforts of over 70 entities involved in the hunger relief equation. For more info, contact Holly Payne, Task Force Coordinator, hp67@cornell.edu. Finances & Utilities Finances Cornell employees: Navigating Personal Finances and Debt Tompkins Trust offers digital banking and assistance for loan customers (deferments of up to 60-90 days) Alternatives Federal Credit Union – COVID 19 Resources, including 0% interest loans Student Loans & COVID-19 Guidance (U.S. Department of Education) - To provide relief to student loan borrowers during the COVID-19 national emergency, federal student loan borrowers are automatically being placed in an administrative forbearance, which allows you to temporarily stop making your monthly loan payment. This suspension of payments will last until Sept. 30, 2020, but you can still make payments if you choose. CFCU Digital Banking - CFCU Credit Union – digital banking and assistance for loan customers Smartpath – a financial wellness company offering COVID-19 financial wellbeing classes, webinars, and other tips. Budget Worksheet and Financial Education Resources and one-to-one financial education support from Cornell Cooperative Extension Utilities Spectrum – financial assistance may be available to households that do not currently have internet. New York State Public Utilities – service shutoffs suspended during COVID-19. Home Energy Assistance Program - federal program that helps low-income households meet the high costs of home energy. Income and resource eligibility standards change annually. Call 607-274-5264 Helping Others Volunteer Gigs in Workday You can use Workday to connect with volunteer opportunities: the links below will take you to Workday's landing page; click the red "Login to Workday" button and 2-step authentication, and you'll be redirected to the volunteer gig. Cornell COVID-19 Test Site Support Serving To Go Meals Food Pantry Volunteers Donate to the Emergency CARE Fund The Cornell Emergency CARE Fund provides support to employees experiencing financial hardships. Community Volunteer Opportunities Cornell Public Service Center – List of Volunteer Opportunities Give Blood with the American Red Cross Ithaca/Tompkins County “Offer Support” Volunteer Form Ithaca Bakery "Adopt A Doc or Nurse" platters: 607-273-7110 United Way of Tompkins County – COVID-19 Response Community Foundation of Tompkins County – COVID-19 Response Fund NYC volunteer opportunities Weill Cornell Medicine Donations Cayuga Medical Center Donations Meals on Wheels Donations Building and Maintaining Connections Cornell Resources Big Red Writes - a Cornell pen pal program for employees, retirees, students, alumni, and K-12th grade children of employees. Find a Quarantine Buddy - created by Cornell students to help foster connections during the quarantine. Colleague Network Groups - available for men of color, women of color, LGBTQ, veterans, and those with disabilities. Participate in virtual gatherings offered regularly. Cornellians Parenting During COVID Facebook Group Community Resources Adopt a Grandparent - CHD Living is inviting English-speaking people from around the world to apply online and become a virtual volunteer who will engage with their assigned "grandparents" through video calls. Questions or Suggestions wellbeing@cornell.edu Print as PDF Need Help? If you observe behavior related to COVID-19 that seems unsafe – whether by New York state or Cornell requirements Report a concern For support with Daily Check or questions related to testing, vaccines, or travel, contact the COVID-19 Support Center Request help For help with matters related to the workplace, or pay and time, contact your HR rep FIND YOUR HR REP Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.