Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Login Search Search events.cornell.edu › Event Details This is a past event. Its details are archived for historical purposes. The contact information may no longer be valid. Please visit our current events listings to look for similar events by title, location, or venue. The Science Behind COVID-19 Vaccines: A conversation with Cornell’s immunology experts Monday, April 12, 2021 at 4:00pm to 5:00pm Virtual Event Vaccines are changing the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, but many people are left wondering how they work, whether they’re safe and effective, and how vaccination can protect public health. Join this virtual question and answer session with a panel of Cornell vaccine and immunology experts to learn about the science behind the vaccines and hear answers to some common concerns. Viewers will have the opportunity to submit their own vaccine questions before and during the event. Our panelists: Avery August is Professor and former Chair of the Department of Microbiology and Immunology. He is currently HHMI Professor and Vice Provost for Academic Affairs. He received a B.S. degree in Medical Technology from the California State University at Los Angeles, and a Ph.D. degree in Immunology from the Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences. Deborah Fowell is Professor and Chair of the Department of Microbiology and Immunology. She received a B.Sc. degree in Cellular Pathology from Bristol University in the UK in 1988 and was awarded a Ph.D. (rather a D.Phil.) from Oxford University in 1992. Gary Koretzky a Professor in the Department of Medicine at Weill Cornell Medicine, an Adjunct Professor in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at the College of Veterinary Medicine and Vice Provost for Academic Integration. Koretzky received his AB from Cornell (‘78) and his M.D. and Ph.D. (Immunology) degrees at the University of Pennsylvania (‘84). Cynthia Leifer is a Professor in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at the College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University. She received her Bachelor of Science from the University of Maryland College Park and her Ph.D. from the Weill Graduate School of Medical Sciences at Cornell. The virtual event is open to all members of the Cornell and surrounding community. Register for this event at: https://cornell.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_8w9rxrD8RhKXYzEvgJ3p1w Tweet Share Subscribe Google Calendar iCal Outlook Event Type Webinar Departments University Relations Website https://covid.cornell.edu/ Contact E-Mail stratcomm@cornell.edu Dept. Web Site https://universityrelations.cornell.edu/ Recent Activity No recent activity Submit an Event Create your own custom weekly events email All Events Featured Events Places to Go Groups I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested (19) View all people interested... Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube This event content is powered by the Localist Event CMS. Login to Cornell Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with NetID