View this email in your browser May 2, 2022 Update - View past editions "Finding Flourish" with Cornell Wellness Take a break, move your body, and get outside every day in May! Sign up to receive gentle reminders, tips, and support from wellness professionals to improve your physical and mental wellbeing along the way. Accessible to all staff and faculty, including those not local to the Ithaca campus. Happy Bellies: Nutrition for Optimizing Your Gastrointestinal & Overall Health (Weill Cornell Medicine) May 2, 5pm via Zoom. Learn about selecting a personal dietary approach, the different components that make up diets, and common ailments. Kickstart to Hiking: A 4-week Skill & Strength Workshop Thursdays, May 5-26, 2:30pm. Spend time with Cornell Wellness fitness professionals in this short series of hiking-specific workouts and connect with others who are also eager to get on the trail. Breaking Our Silence: Storytelling for Mental Health (Story House Ithaca) Throughout Mental Health Awareness Month, Story House Ithaca is hosting a series of creative events and activities to increase empathy, build understanding, and help lift the shroud of shame and secrecy around mental illness. It will culminate on Sat., May 21 at 7:30pm in a free celebration at Ithaca High School’s Kulp Auditorium, coordinated by Rachel Lampert, featuring master storyteller Regi Carpenter, dancers Kathy Lucas and Megan Omohundro, mental health advocate Beth McGee, Civic Ensemble’s ReEntry Theatre, and the Ithaca High School Choir, led by Kristin Zaryski. How Anxiety Hides in Your Habits (Greater Good) Before trying tips to reduce anxiety, first understand your anxiety routines. The Future of Law Enforcement with Cedric Alexander May 4, 10:30am, virtual and at the Statler Ballroom, Statler Hotel. Moderated by Laura Lewis, Acting Mayor of Ithaca and Sonia Rucker, Associate Vice President, Dept. of Inclusion and Belonging at Cornell. Finding Forgiveness: Healing After the Loss of a Parent (Hospicare of Ithaca) May 12 & 19, 7pm via Zoom. A two-part workshop for adult children. Bring A Child to Work Day is back in person for 2022! The last two years has helped to reimagine this popular program with fresh activities and improvements to share all the amazing work done at Cornell with your children. See what's coming up this year! Cornell Cinema Closes Out Spring Season May 5, 7pm. Cornell Cinema closes out the Spring season with a screening of Billy Wilder’s classic film noir, Double Indemnity (1944), starring Barbara Stanwyck and Fred MacMurray. Art-Full Family Day at the Johnson Art Museum May 7, 11am-2pm. Holly Adams will bring art to life through drama, storytelling, movement, and imagination. Be ready to explore, create, and move! Appropriate for ages 3 and older. Rochester Philharmonic Orchestra May 8, 3pm, Bailey Hall. Celebrate Mother's Day with the Rochester Philharmonic Orchestra. Cornell History 101 May 10, 12pm via Zoom. Join Cornell historian Corey Earle ’07 for an entertaining session about Cornell’s history, campus, and what makes our university and community unique. Helping You Plan for the Long Term (Fidelity) May 4, 12pm, virtual. Don’t miss this live event with head of Fidelity Wealth Planning, David Peterson, about health care costs, wealth protection, and estate planning. Free Rabies Vaccination Clinic (Tompkins County Health Department) May 4, 6-8pm, Lansing Fire Station. One and three year vaccinations for dogs, cats, and ferrets. Pre-registration is required. Donations accepted. Work Relationships: Are They the Key to Wellbeing? (Limeade) May 3, 1pm, virtual. Explore the ingredients that create a healthy relationship and what actions create better relationships through work. Preparing for the Unexpected: The Keys to Public Speaking Confidence (eCornell) June 1, 1pm. By preparing and practicing for the unexpected, you can move past an embarrassing public speaking experience. President's Awards for Employee Excellence Nominations Now Open Know someone or a team that has gone above and beyond their daily responsibilities to achieve greatness? Nominate them! Sustainability Mix & Mingle May 5, 4:30pm, Big Red Barn. Meet others passionate about and working on campus sustainability projects. Compost Giveaway (Recycle Tompkins) May 7, 9am-12pm. Drop off food scraps or pick up a food scrap collection kit and receive free compost dirt (bring your own container). The Decline of Honeybees & Other Pollinators (CCE Oswego) May 12, 1pm via Zoom. Learn about the ongoing challenges surrounding pollinator declines and easy things we can all do to support pollinators. 2022 Spring Plant Sale (CCE Tompkins) May 13, 12:30pm, Ithaca Farmer's Market Pavilion. The Garden Fair & Plant Sale features a wide variety of vendors who offer specialty plants and gardening advice. Nine Tips for Giving Better Feedback at Work (Greater Good) The article references a study that found higher levels of feedback are associated with 89% greater thriving at work, 63% more engagement, and 79% higher job satisfaction. People who receive more feedback are also 1.2 times more likely to stay with an organization. Learn how to improve feedback delivery at work. About the Wellbeing Update: Information provided by Cornell Work/Life, Cornell Wellness, and the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program about campus and community resources, programs, and events. Explore past editions or email wellbeing@cornell.edu to ask questions or suggest a resource. Published roughly every other week. Information shared does not indicate Cornell endorsement. Copyright © 2022 Cornell University, All rights reserved. This email was sent to <<Email Address>> why did I get this? unsubscribe from this list update subscription preferences CU · 2222 · Tully, Ny 13159 · USA