Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Job Opportunities / How To Apply / Interviewing Tips Top 10 Interviewing Tips Ground work before applying Conduct your research– Request the full job description (not just the job advertisement), review this very closely and imagine the type of work they might do and the people they may interact with. See what is written about the program or office on-line. Informally talk with people who might know something about the position and the office/department it supports. GOAL – Determine the essence of the job – what are those key deliverables and responsibilities—what really makes the position tick. Cover letters – don’t apply without one! Applicant pools are large and competitive. Those who take the time to customize a cover letter for each position to which they are applying, are more likely to have their resume reviewed. Use your research and knowledge of the job to highlight connections between your experience and the qualifications and responsibilities of the position. This is also the place to include relevant information that is not captured on your resume. Typos are a deal breaker and suggest a lack of attention to detail. Resume styles – your professional autobiography There are several resume styles to choose from – find the one that best represents and highlights your experience and skills (see resources on the back of this sheet.) Use key words from the ad language when listing your accomplishments. Be sure to include work dates (month and year) for each position. In general, it is not necessary to include jobs from more than 15 years ago. Telephone interviews Most candidates fail to realize that the phone interview is the real thing and should be treated the same as a physical meeting. Dress as if you were meeting face to face, avoid distractions and be professional. Taking the telephone interview seriously can be a critical step in the recruitment process. Conversation skills During the telephone interview you should avoid jargon, the use of slang, and inappropriate/unpolished communications. Do not eat, drink or chew gum during the call. Don’t speak too quickly and be succinct in your responses, telephone interviews are usually 30 minutes in length and you’re wasting your own time if you stray off the subject. Onsite interviewing The interview starts when you arrive at the business location and doesn’t end until you are off the property and out of sight. Other staff will notice what you say and how you conduct yourself in their presence, and receptionists are often asked to evaluate candidates. Treat everyone you encounter with courtesy. Come prepared to the interview and be professional. Arrive on time wearing attire appropriate to the position, use business etiquette, appropriately greet interviewers, offer a firm handshake, maintain good eye contact and good body posture. Listen carefully to each question, feel free to pause and gather your thoughts before answering. And remember to turn off your cell phone. Traditional networking Identify your advocates by starting the process with people you are comfortable with, and remember to engage in authentic conversation, not a sales pitch. Additionally remember that listening is more important than anything you can say, and no matter how many connections you make, they mean very little if you don’t follow-up and stay in touch. Social networking Be careful of what you post online: The internet saves all its input and there’s no telling where something could re- surface at a most inopportune time. If that occurs while you’re in job search mode, the results could be disastrous. Think twice before posting. Also, set limits on how much time you spend online. You still need the one- on-one in person conversations; social networking does not take the place of human interaction. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.