Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Our Workplace / Diversity & Inclusion / Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at Cornell Please note new course completion date: September 15, 2022 (completion deadline has been extended by one year) Given numerous staff concerns about completing the full series by the upcoming mid-September deadline, the deadline has been extended to September 2022. We understand workloads are heavy right now and that last year presented many challenges. The extension is meant to give ample time and opportunity to reflect on the many helpful aspects of each module. For those that have completed the courses, thank you. There will be continued opportunities for engagement with Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. In this six-course certificate program, you will hear from Cornell leadership about the importance of evolving a culture of diversity, equity, and belonging. Using Cornell’s Skills for Success as your foundation, you will develop techniques to create and cultivate an inclusive work environment. Building on these values, you will examine ways to initiate change through self-examination and by evaluating how power, privilege, and oppression manifest in your everyday life. As the program progresses, you will have the opportunity to practice engaging respectfully with peers and teams with different perspectives and using strategies to speak up and respond when you witness bias. By the end of this program, you will be empowered to support a Cornell culture where everyone feels valued and where we can all bring our whole, authentic selves to work The course format consists of short, 2-4 minute videos interspersed with reflection exercises, activities to establish comfort and confidence, and a completion quiz. Optional university-wide community conversations will be offered via zoom. Additionally, colleges/units can choose to host their own conversations. Facilitation guides will be made available for colleges and units that wish to host conversations within their organizations. Login To CULearn Course assignments will appear on your "ME" page in CULearn Timeline: All six courses should be completed by September 15, 2022, or one year from the first day of employment for employees hired after September 8, 2020. More information: Update on racial justice initiatives at Cornell Required educational program for faculty Module Descriptions and Community Chats CU101: Cultivating Cornell’s Inclusive Working Environment Description In this course, you will hear from our senior leadership on how we can create an inclusive environment by focusing on our mission, vision, and values. The Skills for Success and Leadership Skills for Success were drafted to support Cornell's mission, and you will explore how you can use your skills to contribute to the mission. Community Chats Click to register for a session. Monday, October 5, 1:00 - 2:15 PM Wednesday, October 7, 10:00 - 11:15 AM Tuesday, October 13, 10:00 - 11:15 AM Thursday, October 15, 1:00 - 2:15 PM Monday, October 19, 2:30-3:45 pm Wednesday, October 21, 10:00-11:15 am Tuesday, October 27, 2:00-3:15 pm Thursday, October 29, 1:00-2:15 pm Monday, November 2, 10:00-11:15 am Wednesday, November 18, 2:00-3:15 pm CU102: Developing a Culture of Belonging and Respect Description In this course, you will examine belonging, diversity, inclusion, and respect, and how it looks when everyone can bring their authentic professional selves to work. You will also consider the impact of diversity and inclusion initiatives on the organization's bottom line. What specific ways can you help build or evolve a culture of belonging, inclusion, and respect in your organization? The experts at the Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity and Organizational Development and Effectiveness at Cornell University will guide you in actions you can take. Community Chats Click to register for a session. Wednesday, November 11, 11:00 - 12:15 pm Thursday, November 19, 1:00 - 2:15 pm Thursday, December 3, 10:00-11:15 am Wednesday, December 9, 1:00-2:15 pm CU103: Understanding ourselves and Our Ability to Create Change Description In this course, you will begin by identifying how you became the person that you are using the cycle of socialization to understand the things you were taught about yourself and others throughout your life. Then, you will define and explore what power, privilege, and oppression mean, and how they connect to you, and the ways you have been socialized. You will use what you learn to create a new approach to interacting with others that fosters connection and allows you to make positive change using the cycle of liberation. Community Chats Click to register for a session. Thursday, December 10, 9:00 - 10:15 am Monday, December 14, 1:00 - 2:15 pm Wednesday, December 16, 10:00 - 11:15 am Monday, January 11, 1:00 - 2:15 pm Wednesday, January 13, 9:30 - 10:45 am Wednesday, January 27, 9:30 - 10:45 am CU104: Engaging with Different Perspectives Description As you progress through the course, you will gain skills that will allow you to better prepare for challenging conversations both mentally and emotionally. You will practice a deeper level of listening and assess your listening skills. You will then have the opportunity to navigate scenarios where the LARA method of communication can be fruitfully employed in the workplace. Community Chats March 2, 2:00 - 3:25 pm March 10, 11:00 am - 12:15 pm March 18, 9:30 - 10:45 am March 22, 1:00 - 2:15 pm CU105: Speaking up and Responding Description In this course, you will evaluate what kinds of behavior require speaking up and responding, and what benefits can come from standing up for others in cases of bias or discrimination. You will then explore different ways you might choose to respond, ranging from directly supporting the person who experienced the effects of the inappropriate behavior, through various forms of bystander intervention, and, ultimately, to more formal processes. Community Chats March 30, 9:30 - 10:45 am April 7, 1:00 - 2:15 pm CU106: Your Commitment to Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Description This course will equip participants to act through self-reflection and the creation of an action plan that will help them identify inclusive and equitable practices that can be applied to their work environments. Prepare participants to be in alliance with one another within their organization and function. Community Chats August 12, 2021 - 10:00 AM August 25, 2021 - 1:00 PM FAQs General Questions Who is required to take this training? Cornell benefits-eligible staff, librarians and archivists. An anti-racism program for faculty (tenured, tenure track and RTE) faculty is forthcoming. Why am I being asked to complete this training course? A diverse community includes everyone and is the foundation for the meaningful exploration and exchange of ideas. The University is committed to fostering a safe, respectful, and inclusive living, learning, and working environment for the entire University community. As community members, it is important to recognize our shared responsibility to each other. The program focuses on evolving a culture of diversity, equity, and belonging. The overall goal of the program is to give all staff members the same foundations so that we can all contribute to building a better, more equitable, and inclusive Cornell. What is the format of the program? This is a six-course certificate program that will be delivered online through CULearn and will consist of short, 2-4 minute videos interspersed with reflection and activities to establish comfort and confidence. Each course will end with a completion quiz. Courses average 50 m to 1.5 hours in length. What are the six courses? Please see above for a description of each course Do employees who are on leave have to take the training? Employees who are on leave should not take the course while they are on leave. They will be required to complete the course once they return from leave. I have a question about one of the ideas/policies/examples given in the course, who should I ask? Optional university-wide community conversations will be offered via zoom to deepen the engagement with the topics presented in the courses. Additionally, colleges/units can choose to host their own conversations. Facilitation guides will be made available for colleges and units that wish to host conversations within their organizations. We welcome you at an upcoming Community Chat. Several Community Chats will be offered for each course. While you may attend more than one, we encourage you to attend at least one per course. What happens if I do not complete the courses/program? All required staff members are encouraged and expected to complete the program (6 courses total). Employees may be subject to disciplinary action (i.e., written warning, reprimand) or other administrative action (i.e., denial of requests for leave, travel, reimbursements and other privileges in employment) if the training requirement is not fulfilled within the specified timeframe. Timeline How long do I have to complete the course(s)? All required components must be completed by September 15, 2022, or one year from the first day of employment for employees hired after September 8, 2020. When will the courses be available? The courses will be released per the following schedule: CU101: Cultivating Cornell’s Inclusive Working Environment – September 2020 CU102: Developing a Culture of Belonging and Respect – October 2020 CU103: Understanding ourselves and Our Ability to Create Change – November 2020 CU104: Engaging with Different Perspectives – January 2021 CU105: Speaking up and Responding – February 2021 CU106: Your Commitment to Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion – March 2021 How long does it take to complete each course? Courses average 45m to 1.5 hours in length. Do I have to attend the community conversations? Though the community chats are valuable, and we strongly encourage you to attend the community chats to deepen your learning, the university-wide community conversations are optional and are not a required component of the program. Technical Questions If I have questions about anything in the program, who can I contact? If you have additional questions and/or concerns about the mandatory ADEI Program, you may contact Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity at owdi@cornell.edu. Where are the courses located? How do I access the courses? This program will be delivered online through CULearn. All staff members will be pre-enrolled into the courses. Staff members will receive an email from CULearn once they have been enrolled into the courses with a link to the course(s). The course is launched in CULearn which connects into eCornell/Canvas. Can I access the material again after I complete the course(s)? Yes. You can log into your eCornell dashboard at any time and can then relaunch the course by selecting it from your completed list. This will relaunch the content in Canvas and you will be able to access the materials. Relaunching a course will not impact your completed status. May I begin, stop, and return to the course(s)? The course can be stopped/started and will bookmark until it has been completed. Relaunch is done via CULearn Help! I am having technical difficulty! If you are having trouble accessing and/or advancing through the modules, please try the following: Consider clearing your cache and cookies Try a different browser Turn-off your pop-up blockers Contact CIT: https://it.cornell.edu/support Contact ECornell Helpdesk: 1-800-801-0287 For Supervisors, Managers and Human Resource Officers Can I require my staff to complete this on their own time? No. This is a university requirement and should be completed during work time. If you have concerns or would like to discuss options for how to do this, contact your HR representative or the Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity. Can I enroll employees in the CULearn course(s)? All staff members will be pre-enrolled into each course. Supervisors and managers do not need to do anything for enrollment. Can my team take the courses together as a group instead of individually? Only areas where individuals don’t have regular access to computers can complete this program in a group setting. If you complete the course(s) as a group, you must track and submit attendance records so that employees can receive appropriate credit for participating. Please work with your HR representatives to make sure you are properly documenting and submitting attendance for each course. If completion is not properly tracked and submitted, individual staff members will not be marked as having completed this required course. What about employees who are on term appointments? All benefits eligible staff employees should complete the course. How will we be tracking who has taken the training? How will I know who has completed the training on my team? Tracking of completion will be conducted by the Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity. This information will be shared with your HR Representative who will relay the information to you. What if my employees ignore the training request, or refuse to take the training? As part of the tracking process, employees will be given ample notice and reminders to complete the required program. Employees may be subject to disciplinary action (i.e., written warning, reprimand) or other administrative action (i.e., denial of requests for leave, travel, reimbursements and other privileges in employment) if the training requirement is not fulfilled within the specified timeframe. What if I am unable to do the online training (i.e. due to disability, lack of internet or computer access, etc)? If you are unable to take the course online, please contact your HR representative to discuss accommodation options. Your HR representative will partner with the Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity to generate an appropriate plan for all staff members to complete the program. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.