Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Our Workplace / Appreciation & Recognition / Appreciation Portal Appreciation Portal Help us create a culture of appreciation! It's easy to get focused on the tasks at hand – the emails, the meetings, the projects and to-do lists – and forget to say, “Thank you!” or “Well done!” And yet, it is often those simple, timely gestures that have a profound impact on our attitude, productivity, and feelings of belonging. Supervisors and colleagues can use this portal to send kudos in real-time. Also, supervisors can recognize their staff periodically with small tokens of appreciation in the form of points that can be redeemed through the Cornell store or Amazon. Appreciate Someone Now! It's easy to make someone's day. How To Send Appreciation Visit the portal at cornellappreciation.awardco.com Login using your NetID and Two-Step Login Click on Recognize and search for the colleague's name that you'd like to recognize Choose a program: Spot Recognition, Life's Celebrations, Birthday, or Sustainability Champion Add your message Select an appropriate hashtag "#" - supervisors won't see your message, but they will be able to see that their employees or group have been appreciated and view the hashtags. Click "Recognize" to send your message From: no-reply@cornellappreciation.awardco.com Subject: You've Been Recognized! The person you've recognized will receive an email with the text of your message. FAQs Why use the Appreciation Portal? Celebrate contributions and recognize excellence Acknowledge achievements Increase job satisfaction, productivity and employee/supervisor engagement Simple, adaptable and timely appreciation Boost morale What types of spot recognition are available in the Appreciation Portal? Employees can send a personalized message to a colleague to be shared privately with the individual. The system also allows supervisors to periodically recognize non-academic staff and bargaining unit employees with tokens of appreciation in the form of points. Available point options are: 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, and 75 – points can accumulate and do not expire until separating from Cornell. Supervisors should review the Cornell Appreciation Portal overview and FAQ documents available in the Managers Toolkit for more info. How will I know if I've been recognized? You will receive an email from no-reply@cornellappreciation.awardco.com with a subject line, "You've been recognized! It will include the exact message as well as if you have been awarded any points. You can also go into the system under "My Profile" and select "My Recognitions" to see a dashboard of your kudos. Who will be able to see the recognitions? All recipients will receive an email and be able to see their own recognitions within the system. Supervisors will be able to view the hashtags given to their group/employees (and which hashtag). If I receive points, how do I redeem them? Upon logging in with NetId and password, option to purchase select items through Amazon or The Cornell Store. Each point is equivalent to $1. If the item you want costs more points than you have, unfortunately there is not an option to pay the difference or to add points to your balance. STEP 1: Log in STEP 2: Click on "Spend Points" and search for anything OR If you're not sure what you want, click a category and browse products STEP 3: Select the item(s) you wish to purchase with points STEP 4: Click checkout and type in your shipping address before submitting your order To check shipping status, click on "Profile" and then "My Redemptions" What if I don't have enough points for an item I want? Save your points! As long as you are an active employee at Cornell your points never expire and roll over every fiscal year. Please note you cannot purchase additional points or supplement another form of payment to redeem a gift outside your point value. The Amazon redemption page in the portal only shows books. Are there other options? Yes! There are 1,000 of items available through the portal you can redeem at Amazon, this is just a standard landing page. Just type in any item or category in the Search box at the top of the page. How do I receive my campus store gift card? Campus store gift cards are currently sent electronically to your Cornell email address. You may need to check your spam, junk, or "other" folder in Outlook to find the email. If you have questions please contact store-orders@cornell.edu or recognition@cornell.edu Questions or feedback about the Appreciation Portal Email recognition@cornell.edu. System Support For Portal Login, Updating your Profile Photo Step by Step instructions https://awardco.zendesk.com/hc/en-us Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.