Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Help Needed for Campus Reactivation Help Needed for Campus Reactivation Help our students and employees return safely to campus. Cornell employees can apply in Workday for a variety of gig opportunities. Learn more about what Gig Opportunities are and how they work. Note: when clicking on link to apply for gigs below, you'll be taken to the Workday login page; after logging in the link will take you to the gig. CRITICAL NEED: Health & Safety Awareness Ambassadors Are you already working on campus and interested in supporting the university’s health and Safety awareness campaign? We're looking for staff who could give 1-3 hours per day supporting COVID-19 prevention Efforts in and around their building. In this role you'll be offering masks to those who may have forgotten them, sharing friendly reminders to help people remember to wear masks and maintain physical distancing, and helping to collect data on how well our community is adjusting to new health and safety standards. Hours can be flexible to your schedule including split shifts. Apply for gig: https://www.myworkday.com/cornell/d/app/opportunity-marketplace/gigs/fd13c95f74f101660020d9224f01dcdb/view.htmld More campus reactivation gig opportunities COVID Admin Support for Student Disability Services Remote position once trained Student Disability Services is looking for staff to assist with administrative tasks needed to support students who need temporary academic accommodations, which will include students who are diagnosed with COVID or placed in quarantine or isolation. This work requires close attention to detail and involves providing notification to faculty members of appropriate academic accommodations for students. Excellent opportunity to gain entry level experience into student services. Training will be provided. (Hiring up to three, 20+ hour a week coordinators, will begin immediately and continue through fall semester and possibly into the spring, includes funding e.g. SDS will cover your salary while working for SDS, can be done remotely after training) Apply for gig: https://www.myworkday.com/cornell/d/app/manage-gigs/ca1cb23c320001588140ac145c014e4e/view.htmld Assistant Facilities Manager – Residential Halls Area (A full-time, immediate need, that is funded, must work on campus, not remotely) Position supports Facility Managers in the Residential Buildings throughout North, South, and West Campus including Graduate Housing at Hasbrouck Apartments Assisting with routine facility maintenance and compliance needs as well as contributing to long term facilities planning needs Actively participates in workflow management in Maximo work order system to report and track on facility needs Should have a variety of basic technical understanding of facilities and construction (HVAC, plumbing, envelope, etc). Will be expected to take on small generally single trade projects and coordinate to a successful completion. Success factors: Continuous learning of new skills and technical functions Ability to make complex facility issues easy for customers to understand Excellent communication skills both customer facing and internally Team oriented approach to challenging circumstances or complicated scenarios. Management of multiple priorities at once Sound judgement, and positive attitude a must! Apply for Gig: https://www.myworkday.com/cornell/d/app/opportunitymarketplace/gigs/1457541ad9fb01dfd02581c153015df1/view.htmld Sailing Instructor – Merrill Sailing Center (Hiring 5-10 instructors, starts 8/20/20 and continues for approximately 8 weeks, numerous sections per week available but must be available between Wednesdays – Sunday. Requires an 11-15 hour weekly commitment of time.) Specific training on Cornell Sailing Center Instruction provided. Experience and willingness to learn required. Overview - Must be friendly, courteous, and willing to learn the rules, regulations, and operations of the Sailing Center. Instructors must be enthusiastic about the sport of sailing, familiar with sailing etiquette and use correct vocabulary and seek to expose students to the fundamentals of sailing. Qualifications: Previous sailing experience and knowledge of both dinghies and keel boats. Must be able to operate small motor boat and if 27 years old or younger, must have NYS motor boat safety certificate. Possess or willing to gain Red Cross and CPR certification? Must have a passion for sailing, the environment and working with college students. Must have a positive, enthusiastic and flexible attitude. Must possess strong problem solving skills and an ability to adapt to changing program needs depending on weather, number of students, number of boats, etc. Desired abilities: Teach safety, boat handling and sailing theory to college students in dinghies and keelboats who are beginning sailors. Follow lesson plans that include dry land and on-the-water drills and inclement weather activities. Empathy for the students and ability to adapt to their individual needs. Responsible for notifying students of any changes in class times, postponement due to weather conditions and make-up dates. Accurate records of attendance, injuries and boat damage is required. Other duties include care and maintenance of boats and the facility. On occasion, you will be required to fulfill other duties in providing general Sailing Center operations and on-shore assistance to users and sailing instructors, monitor users on the water and provide on-the-water assistance and/or rescue as situations dictate. Apply for Gig: https://www.myworkday.com/cornell/d/app/opportunitymarketplace/gigs/7169f2a006f901a2d2cae71d58010a0a/view.htmld Ranger and Cart/Range attendant – Cornell University, Robert Trent Jones Golf Course (Must hire 5-10, in late August, for approximately 5-10 hours a week, for more than 4 weeks, must work at the golf course, not remotely.) Ranger - outside work Must have good interpersonal skill and communicate well with others. Comfortable directing people as to what is needed when they aren't in compliance with Covid19 guidelines as well as golf course rules with pace of play. Also must have some golf course knowledge on the etiquette of the game. Cart / Range Attendant - outside work Good at multitasking Must be able to get around well on their feet and lift objects that are 20-30lbs off the ground. Also need to have good interpersonal skills and communicate well with others. Apply for Gig: https://www.myworkday.com/cornell/d/app/opportunitymarketplace/gigs/1457541ad9fb017a568b8d7658015f07/view.htmld Other options to assist the Robert Trent Jones Golf Course – Immediate need (30 job shares) Option 1 - 5:30am to 9:30am (available 7 days a week) – 14 positions available Requires use of various machinery to maintain the golf course, including: rolling and mowing the greens, trimming grass, digging and shoveling, and other miscellaneous tasks related to caring for the golf course. Physical Requirements - Must be able to lift 25 lbs. May require walking for most of the shift. Digging, standing stooping, sitting are all possible for long periods as well. Option 2 - 10:00am to 2:00pm (available 7 days a week) – 2 positions available In addition to some miscellaneous tasks related to caring for the golf course, this opportunity includes cleaning of equipment and assisting with shop and equipment care. Option 3 - 10:00am to 2:00pm (available 7 days a week) – 15 positions available This work consists of general golf course care, including: weeding, digging and raking, filling divots, watering, measuring and marking of areas on the course, blowing leaves and other debris, and checking moisture levels. Most of this work is done by hand, but may require some small tools or use of a gator utility vehicle or golf cart. Physical Requirements - Requires long periods of standing, kneeling, stooping, and walking. Must be able to lift 10 lbs. In addition to the shifts outlined in the options above, the Robert Trent Jones Golf Course can also accommodate a 4:00 pm to 8:00 pm schedule for the work duties listed in Options 2 & 3, if that better suits your needs. Apply for Gig: https://www.myworkday.com/cornell/d/app/opportunitymarketplace/gigs/cf5515c0e1960112888edb2d59019d0f/view.htmld Cornell Store - Door monitor/ sanitizer (2 opportunities, :4515 As The Cornell Store plans for re-opening we are in search of friendly and energetic individuals who will greet and count in customers at the entrances, make sure that everyone entering is wearing a mask/face covering, and who will implement our sanitation and hygiene standards to keep our customers and staff safe as we navigate through the COVID-19 pandemic. Attention to detail, sanitation skills, ability to work independently, customer service, verbal communication skills. Apply for Gig: https://www.myworkday.com/cornell/d/app/managegigs/1457541ad9fb01af81ac34cc5301fdf2/view.htmld Cornell Store - Floor Security: (1 opportunity, Monday – Friday, 12pm-4:15pm, begins immediately through Labor Day with possibility of extension.) The Cornell Store is in search of dependable individuals with crowd control or security experience preferred. This person will monitor the sales floor during store operating hours making sure that customers are following safety standards and University guidelines regarding COVID-19. Strong Customer Service, ability to work independently, strong verbal communication. Apply for Gig: https://www.myworkday.com/cornell/d/app/managegigs/cf5515c0e196016190f8682f5401cefb/view.htmld Cornell Store - Sales Associate/Cashier (2 opportunities Monday – Friday, 12pm-4:15pm, begins immediately through Labor Day with possibility of extension.) The Cornell Store is in search of dependable and motivated individuals to join our team of energetic and creative people who offer amazing service as they assist customers with selections and merchandise product as it arrives. Keeping your safety and the safety of our customers in mind during the COVID-19 pandemic, we have installed plexiglass barriers at our point of sale and offer PPE for personal use while working. We value your: ability to make a great positive long lasting first impression, excellent interpersonal skills with both customers and associates, pleasant personality and energy, good communication skills, strong customer service skills and selling techniques, capacity to exercise independent responsibility, quick learning ability and proficiency in Point of Sale Functions. Training is provided. Apply for Gig: https://www.myworkday.com/cornell/d/app/managegigs/cf5515c0e196013081f6dd7c540133fd/view.htmld Popular Articles Employee Wellbeing Update - March 22, 2022 Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.