Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Benefits, Pay & Perks / Family Life Support / Self Care / Domestic Violence Resources Domestic Violence Resources SUPPORT DURING COVID-19 Text 1-844-997-2121 to get help from a domestic violence expert Visit NYS Domestic Violence website to chat privately with an expert New York State Hotline 1-800-942-6906 Residents of Tompkins County: Advocacy Center of Tompkins County 607-277-5000 Child Development Council Warm Line – Confidential parenting help (Tompkins: 607-273-3141, Cortland: 607-753-0119) New York Court System Coronavirus Hotline – 833-503-0447 Clinic to End Tech Abuse NYC Safety Planning Are you, or someone you know, experiencing domestic violence? Domestic and intimate partner violence is an issue that affects employees and students in our community. Cornell University is committed to providing resources to employees who are victims of domestic violence. Below is a description of the campus and local resources available to Cornell employees in need of assistance. If you are a manager, please use Cornell's Guide to Domestic Violence at the Workplace (best viewed in Chrome/Firefox/Explorer) for assistance navigating workplace situations. What is domestic violence? Domestic violence includes but is not limited to harassment, sexual abuse, stalking, and menacing behavior that is committed by a family member or intimate partner and has created a substantial risk of physical or emotional harm to a person or a person’s child. This behavior includes physical as well as emotional or sexual violence, physical and/or psychological intimidation, verbal abuse, economic control, threats, or injury. Who is impacted by domestic violence? Domestic violence occurs to all genders, abilities, races, ethnicities, socio-economic statuses, and occurs regardless of education level, religious affiliation, or other aspects of life and identity. What resources do victims of domestic violence need? Every situation is different. An employee might need assistance with alternative housing, transportation, time off from work, medical care, and/or assistance with legal protections, such as an order of protection from the courts. Note: an Order of Protection is a court order that tells one person what he/she cannot do to another person, or what contact is allowed. An employee might also need workplace accommodations if he or she fears his/her partner may try to contact them at work, such as: a change in telephone number; Net ID; change to address or other contact information included on benefits information; work schedule and/or location; work location; transportation arrangements including parking location; time off or flexible scheduling for court appointments, care for themselves and/or members of their families; time off to settle in a new home or to make arrangements for a new home. Employees are encouraged to consider contacting a confidential victim advocate who can help an individual decide what is needed both in the short term as well as in the future. How do I help my colleague, friend, family member, etc. whom I know, or suspect, is experiencing domestic violence? If you are a manager, please see Cornell’s Guide to Domestic Violence at the Workplace (best viewed in Chrome/Firefox/Explorer) If you are a colleague, speak to the individual about your concerns and offer to help them access resources. You may ask for guidance from your supervisor, local HR representative, the Cornell Faculty and Staff Assistance Program (607-255-2673), or other appropriate offices. If you are a friend/family member, speak to the individual about your concerns and offer to help them access resources. Concerned individuals may call the Advocacy Center of Tompkins County (607-277-5000) for guidance and other resources identified on this page may also be appropriate. Cornell’s Victim Advocacy Program Phone: 607-255-1212 E-mail: victimadvocate@cornell.edu Website: https://health.cornell.edu/services/victim-advocacy This program offers confidential assistance to members of the campus community who have experienced harmful, threatening, or violent incidents including domestic violence. A victim advocate can answer questions, provide support, discuss options, facilitate connections to services and assist with academic, work, or other accommodations. Calls or email inquiries to the Victim Advocacy Program will be returned promptly during business hours (this is not a 24 hr. crisis service. Please note that to protect confidentiality and for safety reasons, when a victim advocate returns a call and there is no answer, if the voicemail ID is not identifiable as the original caller, a message may not be left). Advocacy Center of Tompkins County 24/7 Hotline: 607-277-5000 Website: http://www.actompkins.org/ The Advocacy Center offers emotional support, confidential shelter, support accessing services such as hospitals, police, court proceedings, social services, legal advocacy, and safety planning. The Advocacy Center's services are free and confidential. Additional support resources for Cornell employees Cornell Police In an emergency, call 911; for advice and assistance, call 607-255-1111. Also available is the RAVE Guardian app - this app, free to the campus community, can enhance the user’s personal safety both on and off-campus by turning any smartphone into a personal safety device. Faculty and Staff Assistance Program http://fsap.cornell.edu/ ; Tel: 607-255-2673. FSAP's professional staff offers free and confidential guidance and support to address issues that may be affecting their personal lives and/or job satisfaction or performance. Services include: Personal consultation and needs assessment; information about and referral to campus or community resources and services; short-term counseling; consultation with supervisors, managers, and others who are concerned about an employee or workplace situation; crisis response and community support. Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX titleix@cornell.edu ; Tel: 607-255-2242. The Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX can assist with discussion of options, resources, and support for Cornell students, faculty and staff. For medical concerns, contact your primary care provider or one of the following options Cayuga Medical Center (CMC) Hospital Ithaca's acute-care facility for emergency, inpatient, and outpatient needs, 24 /7; 365 days a year. www.cayugamed.org; 607-274-4011 (Emergency Department: 607-274-4411); 101 Dates Drive (Route 96), on the West side of Cayuga Lake - about 15 minutes from Cornell Urgent Care at Ithaca (formerly Convenient Care) CMC's urgent care clinic; 607-274-4150; 10 Arrowwood Drive, near the crossroads of Route 13 and Warren Road - about 5 minutes from Cornell. Well Now Urgent Care Ithaca's independent non-emergency walk-in clinic offering medical care without an appointment. https://wellnow.com/locations/ithaca/; 607-319-4563; 740 South Meadow Street (Route 13), just south of Wegman's; Seven days a week 8 am to 8 pm Domestic Violence 24/7 Hotlines: Advocacy Center of Tompkins County 24/7 Hotline: 607-277-5000; http://www.theadvocacycenter.org/ New York State Domestic Violence Hotline 24/7 Hotline: 1-800-942-6906; TTY 711; http://www.opdv.ny.gov/help/dvhotlines.html The National Domestic Violence Hotline 24/7 Hotline: 1-800-799-7233; TTY 1-800-787-3224; www.thehotline.org Questions and Answers About Resources for Victims Do you need immediate assistance for your safety, the safety of others or emergency medical care? Please call 911 or Cornell Police at 607-255-1111 Do you need counseling, referrals or support? Please call any of the following: Cornell Victim Advocates: 607-255-1212 ; victimadvocate@cornell.edu Faculty and Staff Assistance (FSAP): 607-255-2673 (urgent crisis help available 24/7; non-urgent issues please phone during business hours) The Advocacy Center: 24/ 7 Hotline: 607-277-5000; www.theadvocacycenter.org Do you have an order of protection against your partner? Please contact the Cornell Police at 607-255-1111 to discuss your safety while at work. Do you think you need an order of protection against your partner? Consider talking with someone at the following resources: The Advocacy Center: 24/ 7 Hotline: 607-277-5000; www.theadvocacycenter.org New York State Domestic Violence Hotline: 24/7 Hotline: 1-800-942-6906; TTY 711; http://www.opdv.ny.gov/help/dvhotlines.html Cornell Police: 607-255-1111 Has your partner violated an order of protection or do you have safety concerns? Cornell Police : 607-255-1111 The Advocacy Center: 24/ 7 Hotline: 607-277-5000; www.theadvocacycenter.org Do you need assistance with alternative living arrangements that will provide safety? The Advocacy Center: 24/ 7 Hotline: 607-277-5000; www.theadvocacycenter.org New York State Domestic Violence Hotline: 24/7 Hotline: 1-800-942-6906; TTY 711; http://www.opdv.ny.gov/help/dvhotlines.html Do you need employment accommodations at Cornell such as: A change to your work schedule; Different hours of work; Different work location; Time off, with notice, for court appointments; Time off, with notice to care for yourself or family member; Time off, with notice to move into alternative housing; A change to your work telephone number; A change to your NetID; A change to your listing on the Cornell directory or website; A change to your parking arrangements or an escort to your vehicle. Please contact any of the following: Your local HR representative Work/Life in Human Resources 607-255-5298; worklife@cornell.edu Faculty and Staff Assistance Program 607-255-2673; http://fsap.cornell.edu/ Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX 607-255-2242; titleix@cornell.edu Do you need a change to your benefits or benefits information in order to protect your confidentiality such as a new address or contact information? HR Services and Transitions Center 607-255-3936; (TTY) 711; hrservices@cornell.edu Do you need to take a leave from work to care for yourself or your family? Please consult with: Medical Leaves Administration East Hill Office Building, Suite 102, 395 Pine Tree Road, Ithaca, NY 14850; (607) 255-1177; (607) 255-7066 (TTY); benefits@cornell.edu Faculty and Staff Assistance Program 607-255-2673; http://fsap.cornell.edu/ Do you think you may need to leave your job because of domestic violence? Before you do so, please contact one of the following to discuss your options: Your local HR representative Faculty and Staff Assistance Program 607-255-2673 http://fsap.cornell.edu/ Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX 607-255-2242 titleix@cornell.edu Print as PDF Cornell University is committed to providing resources to employees who are victims of domestic violence. Find campus and local resources available to Cornell staff in need of assistance as a result of domestic violence. Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.