Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Nominate ‘excellent’ employees through Dec. 8 By Ashley Fazio November 16, 2017 Reminder: The Employee Excellence Awards committee has streamlined the nominations procedure and clarified criteria, and is accepting nominations through Dec. 8. Background Employee Excellence Awards recognize achievements of staff who excel in their roles, in skills and performance. Recipients receive a monetary award, and all nominees are invited to a luncheon with President Martha E. Pollack and Vice President Mary Opperman. Awards are presented for: Individual Excellence; Innovation in Diversity and Inclusion; Management Excellence; and The President’s Award, “Far Above Cayuga’s Waters.” New award for innovation Consistent with Pollack’s focus on innovation during her inaugural address, a new award has been created to recognize staff who bring fresh ideas to their work, inspire a spirit of innovation or are willing to take a calculated risk. Nominees can work in any position or area on campus. They can be a colleague, a manager, an employee on your team – or even yourself. Improvements to nomination process Simpler, streamlined instructions clarify and expedite form completion. Nominate someone as a group: Provide the names and NetIDs of colleagues who support the nomination. Self-nomination (new): Staff can nominate themselves for individual excellence and management excellence awards and for the new innovation award. This addition supports employees who work independently or whose efforts might have fewer opportunities for recognition. Deadline Submit nominations online by Dec. 8. Visit the HR website for complete details. There is no need to re-submit entries from earlier this year; all previous nominations will be considered. Email Cheryl McGraw for questions about the nomination process. Ashley Fazio is the director of communications for the Division of the Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Staff News Media Inquiries Media Contact Lindsey Knewstub lmh267@cornell.edu 607-269-6911 Get Cornell news delivered right to your inbox. Subscribe Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON