Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Login Search Search events.cornell.edu › Event Details This is a past event. Its details are archived for historical purposes. The contact information may no longer be valid. Please visit our current events listings to look for similar events by title, location, or venue. 2022 Martin Luther King, Jr. Commemorative Lecture: "In Praise of Being Black and Alive: A Conversation between Danté Stewart and Cole Arthur Riley" Thursday, February 3, 2022 at 7:00pm Virtual Event NOTE: Due to the forecasted winter storm and the likelihood of hazardous driving conditions, this event will be presented entirely online. Those who have already registered to attend in person will receive a message to register to receive a Zoom link. Those who have already registered for the livestream may use that link. To join us at this event you may register for a Zoom link here. ----- This year’s annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Commemoration will feature two Black authors in conversation about how their work is both inspired by and builds on the work of Rev. Dr. King. Danté Stewart will speak about his new book, “Shoutin’ in the Fire: An American Epistle.” Danté will be joined by Ithaca-based author and curator of the popular Black Liturgies website Cole Riley, whose book “This Here Flesh: Spirituality, Liberation, and the Stories That Make Us” is due out February 22. Both authors grapple with the legacy of white supremacy in America and invite us to reclaim the liberative and communitarian spiritual practices so central to the work of Dr. King About the Speakers Danté Stewart is the author of debut memoir Shoutin’ in the Fire: An American Epistle, a stirring meditation on being Black and learning to love in a loveless, anti-Black world. Stewart uses his personal experiences as a vehicle to reclaim and reimagine spiritual virtues like rage, resilience, and remembrance—and explores how these virtues might function as a work of love against an unjust, unloving world. Stewart’s voice has been featured on CNN, The Washington Post, Christianity Today, Sojourners, The Witness: A Black Christian Collective, Comment Magazine, and more. He received his B.A. in Sociology from Clemson University. He is currently studying at the Candler School of Theology at Emory University in Atlanta, GA. Cole Arthur Riley is the spiritual teacher in residence with Cornell’s Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making. She is the creator of Black Liturgies, a space for Black spiritual words of liberation, lament, rage, and rest; and a project of The Center for Dignity and Contemplation. Born and for the most part raised in Pittsburgh, Cole studied writing at the University of Pittsburgh. Her debut book, This Here Flesh, will be published by Penguin Random House in February of 2022. This event will be accessible to all via livestream. Visit scl.cornell.edu/MLKLecture for additional details and event updates. Dial-In Information Register for livestream, accessible to all Streaming site: https://cornell.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_E_OTChTrRxy5u6495aOkRQ Tweet Share Subscribe Google Calendar iCal Outlook Event Type Cultural, Lecture, Special Event Departments Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making, Cornell United Religious Work, Office of Academic Diversity Initiatives (OADI) University Themes Diversity, Public Engagement Website https://scl.cornell.edu/MLKLecture Contact E-Mail osmm@cornell.edu Contact Name Collins Peters Contact Phone 607-255-6002 Dept. Web Site https://scl.cornell.edu/MLKLecture Recent Activity No recent activity Submit an Event Create your own custom weekly events email All Events Featured Events Places to Go Groups I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested (7) Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube This event content is powered by the Localist Event CMS. Login to Cornell Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with NetID