Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Benefits, Pay & Perks / Medical Leaves & Accommodations / Accommodations Contact Medical Leaves Administration East Hill Office Building, Suite 130 395 Pine Tree Road Ithaca, NY 14850 (607) 255-1177 (phone/fax) wcds@cornell.edu Disability Accommodations If you have a qualified disability (examples include deafness, blindness, intellectual disability, partially or completely missing limbs, autism, cancer, cerebral palsy, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, major depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder), and need assistance to complete your work, consider applying for a disability accommodation. Accommodations can include such things as work site accessibility, flexible work arrangements, and/or equipment such as assistive listening devices, a voice amplification system, or a “screen reader.” Other reasonable accommodations will be considered. Employees with or without a qualified disability who still experience physical discomfort in the workplace and/or have physical difficulty meeting job demands may contact the Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) . Faculty and staff may request evaluation, training and design/planning consultation to prevent injury or disability and to enhance work comfort and productivity. MIPP services are available at no charge courtesy of HR Services & Transitions Center. Applicants for employment requesting an accommodation for a disability so that they may participate in the selection process should contact the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX (OIETX): equity@cornell.edu. How to Apply Faculty and staff may begin the process with their supervisor, local HR representative, or by contacting Medical Leaves Administration directly. Supervisors will notify the appropriate human resources representative of any requests brought to their attention. Students need to contact Student Disability Services. To initiate a request for disability accommodation, employees must fill out the Cover Page and Medical Verification Form and return the forms to Medical Leaves. The contents of the form are confidential, and the form will not be placed in the employment record file. If you would rather speak with someone from Medical Leaves before submitting a request, please contact us. Medical Leaves Administration will usually need medical documentation to support the request. Do not give medical records to your supervisor. Once all of the forms and documents are received, the following process takes place: MLA will review these requests in accordance with the policy, make a determination and then begin exploring reasonable accommodations as appropriate. The supervisor and the department are responsible for implementing the recommended accommodation, with assistance from MLA and other campus offices as needed. The local HR representative is available to assist with the implementation of the recommended accommodation. Parking/Transportation Faculty, staff and visitors may contact Transportation Services to request accessible transportation options to campus to accommodate temporary or long-term medical conditions. For many individuals, a perimeter area parking permit and bus pass are viable, accessible transportation options. Short-term accessible parking permits for up to two months can be issued at the direction of a medical professional. Transportation Services will issue these permits at no charge for general accessible parking spaces across campus. Faculty and staff members needing longer term accessible parking must obtain a municipal placard from the town/municipal clerk of their places of residence, or accessibility license plates from the Department of Motor Vehicles (Department of Motor Vehicles Accessible Permit Application Form). With this identification, there are a variety of long-term accessible parking options. Note that the process does not automatically grant a permit that allows you to park next to your workplace, but works to determine the most reasonable transportation accommodation for you. For more information visit Transportation Services. Inclement Weather: Cornell has a voluntary program for faculty and staff with short or long-term mobility impairments who have difficulty getting to or around their worksite during inclement weather. To see if the program meets your needs, please take this survey (pdf), or obtain a printed copy from the Office of Workforce Policy and Labor Relations at 607-254-7232 or equalopportunity@cornell.edu. Resources Univeristy Policy 6.13: Disability Accommodation Process for Faculty and Staff Disability Accommodation Frequently Asked Questions Addressing Inclement Weather Challenges for Individuals with Disabilities Request for Accommodation (pdf) Request for Accommodation - Medical Verification (pdf) Family & Medical Leave Act Poster (pdf) Disability Self-Identification form (pdf) The Cornell Disability Colleague Network Group is a university-sponsored employee resource group. Our mission is to raise awareness, serve as an educational resource, provide support, and offer peer mentorship for those working with short term or long term disabilities, their supervisors, colleagues, allies, and other supporters. Print as PDF Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.