Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Propel Your Career Forward with Development Workshops Propel Your Career Forward with Development Workshops Check out these upcoming workshops for February! YOUR TOP 5: AN EXPLORATION OF STRENGTHS Tuesday, February 11, 9 AM – 4 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $100 Facilitated by Jennifer Fonseca, Organizational Development Consultant Rooted in more than 40 years of research, the instrument used in this program has enabled millions to discover and develop their natural talents. These Strengths Insights describe what makes you stand out. This Program adopts a workshop approach and uses group interaction to achieve its objectives. PROFESSIONALISM Wednesday, February 12, 9 AM - 12 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $35 Facilitated by Jennifer Fonseca, OD Consultant Throughout our working lives, most of us will have many different jobs, each requiring a different level or set of skills. No matter the profession – from customer service to an office job to construction and the trades – all of these jobs have one thing in common: in order to succeed and move ahead, you need to demonstrate professionalism. HOW TO CREATE EFFECTIVE PRESENTATIONS Wednesday, February 12, 1 – 4 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $50 Facilitated by Jim Sheridan, Senior Management Consultant Know how to prepare a memorable presentation. Utilize planning techniques for delivering an effective presentation. Recognize how visual aids can create impact and attention. Develop visual and vocal techniques to create a professional presence. Learn how to communicate effectively with the audience you are presenting to. Use practice and feedback techniques to prepare. IMPORTANT CONVERSATIONS Thursday, February 13, 8 AM – 12 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $50 Facilitated by Jennifer Fonseca, Organizational Development Consultant Learn to step up to high stakes conversations skillfully and respectfully and begin to resolve the problems by surfacing the best ideas, making important decisions, and acting on decisions with unity and commitment. UNDERSTANDING THE BUSINESS OF HIGHER EDUCATION Thursday, February 13, 1 - 4 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $50 Facilitated by Jim Sheridan, Sr. Management Consultant Explore the difference in structure and focus of the academic and administrative operations at Cornell and the impact of this. CUSTOMER SERVICE Tuesday, February 18, 9 AM - 12 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $35 Facilitated by Jim Sheridan, Sr. Management Consultant Learn how to: Describe exceptional customer service. Identify the benefits of great customer service and recognize barriers to the delivery of outstanding customer service. Adapt to customer behavior styles and use techniques for dealing with angry or upset customers. Develop a personal action plan to improve customer-service skills. COACHING IN PRACTICE Wednesday, February 19, 9 AM - 12 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $50 Facilitated by Jim Sheridan, Sr. Management Consultant Learn how to: Develop an understanding of the principles of coaching and learn coaching models that can be applied in the workplace. Understand the importance of coaching staff towards development and continuous improvement. Prepare, deliver and review coaching sessions and learn what to say and how to say it when coaching staff. CROSS CULTURAL COMMUNICATION Wednesday, February 19, 1 – 4 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $35 Facilitated by Jennifer Fonseca, Organizational Development Consultant This workshop engages participants in conversations regarding “what gets in the way” when communicating across difference. INFLUENCE: GETTING RESULTS WHEN YOU ARE NOT IN CHARGE Thursday, February 20, 9 AM - 12 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $35 Facilitated by Jennifer Fonseca, Organizational Development Consultant Learn a model for getting things done and develop and action plan for gaining influence. UNDERSTANDING AND MANAGING CHANGE Monday, February 24, 10 AM – 12 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $35 Facilitated by Jason Stark, counselor therapist, Faculty Staff Assistance Program As a result of this training program participants will: Understand why change is so difficult Look at one change model: The Change Curve Learn about organizational change and stress Discuss ways to reduce anxiety and review good stress management skills Review healthy perspectives and behavior Understand how maintaining relationships and creating a positive work environment will help you in managing change Explore steps to successful communication TIME MANAGEMENT Tuesday, February 25, 1-4 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $35 Facilitated by Tonya Grove, Organizational Development Consultant Recognize and minimize time-wasting activities, refocus on important goals, and make decisions that help you more successfully manage your time and achieve more effective, efficient results YOUR ROLE IN CHANGE MANAGEMENT Wednesday, February 26, 9 AM - 12 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $50 Facilitated by Jim Sheridan, Sr. Management Consultant Know the expectations of the university has of managers in implementing change. Understand your own reactions to change. Know the key factors to consider in implementing change. Understand the impact a manager’s attitude towards change has on direct reports. Know what resources are available to help implement changes. INTRODUCTION TO METRICS Wednesday, February 26, 1 - 4 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $50 Facilitated by Jennifer Fonseca, Organizational Development Consultant Understand how and for what purpose to gather metrics and know how to use data/metrics to tell a story with impact. VALUING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Thursday, February 27, 9AM - 4 PM; EHP 345 Training Room $75 Facilitated by Jennifer Fonseca, Organizational Development Consultant As a result of this training program participants will: Increase awareness of what inclusion and inclusiveness means. Get an overview of the meaning of compliance based programs (such as Affirmative Actions) and its significance to our dialogue about inclusion. Become more aware of our individual experiences with inclusion and exclusion and how this is related to diversity. Understand what you and I can do to increase inclusion in day-to-day practice at Cornell. Be able to use concepts and models introduced today as tools to help navigate the challenges of creating a climate of inclusion. WORKJOY: A mindfulness program designed to bring more meaning and happiness into work! WorkJoy is a mindfulness and skills building program designed for Cornell employees! Organizations all over the country recognize that a positive sense of well-being and feeling valued reduces stress and brings joy, meaning and resilience into the day-to-day work life. WorkJoy is not a one-off, one-time experience like many workshops but rather a 90-day program that supports growth and personal change throughout! For every participant this includes: One full day of participation on site, individually customized 1:1 coaching time with the facilitators, one full group zoom meeting to support growth and the hard work of personal change! We are committed to a sustainable, measurable and joyful process that unfolds as a new habit and a new path towards change. Contents Identify work-vision and action-plan See opportunities for a positive work life experience Uncover work stressors and negative beliefs Create a “toolbox” for managing stress including WorkJoy “Noble Communication” training Build a personalized mindfulness practice Develop better coping strategies and an understanding of burnout Self-regulate by tuning into body sensations Respond vs. react Build community with colleagues Details Date: Time: Venue: Investment: Monday, April 13, 2020 8:30 AM – 4:30 PM HR Training Room, 345 East Hill Plaza $465 This is a Cornell sponsored program facilitated by WorkJoy facilitators: Jayne Gumpel, LCSW, David Gumpel, Integral Coach and Ari Mack, Organizational Development Consultant Register here. Check out the complete listings of Administrative Academy and Management Academy classes. You can take just one or as many programs or receive a certificate by taking the required core sessions and electives. Leadership Development Opportunities: Executive Harold D Craft Leadership Program April 27 – May 1, 2020. The 5-day “Executive Harold D. Craft Leadership Program” (EHDCLP), focuses on leadership within the Cornell culture. Executive HDCLP is the HDCLP for Band H, I and un-banded staff. It is designed to provide managers and faculty with the self-awareness, skills, tools, action plans, and commitment to lead their organizations in meeting new challenges. $600 Supervising@Cornell: A campus-wide online supervisory training program developed with the growing needs of the supervisor, and those who desire to be supervisors, in mind. Supervising@Cornell is designed to be flexible – to help individuals get the information they want, when they need it. It isn't a one-time training: it's an ongoing commitment to developing the best in ourselves and our staff. This online program enables each individual to access the resources available at Cornell University, at their own pace and on their own schedule, wherever they are. FREE Turning Point: September 14-18, 2020 or September 21-25, 2020. Turning Point is a 5-day leadership program for front-line staff designed to: increase self-awareness of personal leadership style, attitude, skills and behavioral impact on others; improve communication and relationship-building skills for inspiring, engaging and motivating others; build campus-wide networks and increase partnership, collaboration, and alignment with Cornell’s mission. $600 Popular Articles Employee Wellbeing Update - March 22, 2022 Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.