Skip to main content SEARCH: Search context: Working at Cornell Cornell Mobile Menu Icon Display Search Pages for: Managers/New Hires/Staff/Academics/Retirees Working at Cornell Working at Cornell Job Opportunities External Applicants Internal Applicants Important Notice to Applicants How To Apply Career Areas Interviewing Tips Preparing your cover letter Preparing your resume Benefits Snapshot Relocating Job Search Resources Dual Career Program New Hire Engagement Program Labor Condition Applications Annual Security Report Fire Safety Report Benefits, Pay & Perks Health Plans Endowed Plans Contract College Plans Counseling Navigating Health Challenges Finance & Retirement Flexible Spending Account Retirement and Savings Financial Assistance Navigating personal finances and debt Insurance Life Insurance Personal Accident Home, Auto, Pet Long Term Care Insurance Legal Insurance Enrollment Open Enrollment & Option Transfer Benefits Eligibility Marriage - Domestic Partnership Birth-Adoption Divorce/Separation Gain-Loss Coverage Leave/Layoff Death Reports & Notices How To Change Your Address How To Change Your Name Required Documentation Contact Vendors Education Employee Degree Program Part Time Study (formerly Extramural Study) Tuition Aid NY’s 529 College Savings Program Cornell Children’s Tuition Scholarship Family Life Support Self Care Parenting Elder & Adult Care Care@Work Pets Flexible Work Special Needs Resources Medical Leaves & Accommodations Accommodations Short-Term Disability Long-term Disability Workers' Comp Musculoskeletal Injury Prevention Program (MIPP) Personal Medical Leave Parental Leave Family Health Leave Military Leave New York State Paid Family Leave Pay & Time Pay Time Off Flexible Work Perks and Discounts Transportation Commuter Benefits HR Policies Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Update Seven Dimensions of Wellbeing HR Wellbeing Liaisons Resource Guide Booklet Mental Wellbeing Counseling & Life Coaching Meditation and Relaxation Self Care Resources Relationship Wellbeing Connect at Work Caring for Children Caring for Elders and Adults Caring for Pets More Relationship Resources Physical Wellbeing General Exercise & Recreation Food and Diet Health Challenges Safety Matters Inclusion Cultural Wellbeing Support for Diverse Communities Continuing Education Opportunities Environmental Wellbeing Actions to Make a Difference Environmental Resources Work Environment Occupational Wellbeing Career Development Celebrating Achievements Retirement Financial Wellbeing Employee Benefits Financial Resources Career Development Navigating your Career Path Career Navigator Tool Career Services Resources Career Hub in Workday Opportunities Opportunity Finders Learning Gigs Mentoring & Coaching Career Skills Supervising at Cornell Staff Development Day Performance Skills for Success Leadership Skills for Success Performance Dialogues Lean Process Our Workplace Workplace Priorities University Core Values Staff Survey Staff Conversations Staff Forum Talent Management About HR HR Vision and Priorities Find Your HR Rep Contact HR Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer HR Glossary Belonging at Cornell (BAC) Council HR Community Center-(internal) Diversity & Inclusion Bias Reporting Advancing Diversity Equity and Inclusion at Cornell Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Diversity Resources Diversity.cornell.edu CITE Responsibility at Cornell Addressing Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Staff DEI Initiative Report 2021 Appreciation & Recognition Appreciation Portal Informal Recognition Awards Appreciation & Recognition Events Recognition Programs Staff Spotlight Cornell Heroes Community Colleague Network Groups Connect Events Big Red Writes Volunteer Opportunities Flexible Work Flexible Work Request Types of Arrangements Expectations Equipment and Workspace Living & Working Outside New York State Pay & Time Sustainability Tips for Flexible Work Tips for Hosting Hybrid Work Gatherings Shared Hoteling Space Core Principles Home / Backpack Donations Accepted till August 23 Backpack Donations Accepted till August 23 The Backpack Program for 2019 is winding down. Our deadline for donating backpacks is August 23. It’s our 13th year of supplying new backpacks and supplies to the many needy children within our area. Who are we? The Cornell Elves Backpack Program began in the fall of 2007 with 284 backpacks donated to 12 schools. Support has grown steadily over the past 12 years, and last year we donated 1224 new, filled backpacks to 27 schools! This year, we are working with 28 area schools (please see list of schools and program contacts at the bottom of this email). You can also check out our website for additional information about the Elves Programs: http://elves.cornell.edu/ How does the program work? Children who receive these backpacks are entering kindergarten through sixth grade and are identified by the nurses/social workers at the schools represented by the program. Our sponsors include Cornell employees, students, local families, neighbors, businesses, and organizations such as the Girl Scouts. How can I help? It’s so easy to make the first day at school special for a local child! You can choose to donate to a particular school from the list at the bottom of this email, or bring the backpacks to my office where it will be donated to the schools who may still be in need. - Buy a backpack & supplies: A new backpack and all of the supplies can be purchased for $20 - $25 once all of the back-to-school sales begin. See the Supply List and enjoy shopping the sales! - Donate supplies: Did your business buy too many pencils or notebooks this year? Have extra glue sticks? We’ll get them to classrooms where they’ll be used! - Write a check: Don’t like to shop? No problem. Our elves know how to stretch a dollar and get what kids need most. Any amount will make a difference to a needy local child! Checks can be made out to “The Elves” and sent to my attention at the address below. Are donations tax-deductible? Donations to the Backpack Program are not tax deductible because we are not a registered non-profit organization. There is significant expense and ongoing paperwork involved in becoming a nonprofit. We are proud of the fact that we are simply concerned Cornell employees trying to support our communities. We have absolutely no overhead costs, and every penny donated goes directly to help children who are truly in need. What is the deadline to provide donations? In order that we can get the backpacks to the schools in time for the kids to pick them up before that first day, I ask that backpacks being dropped off at my office, be brought no later than August 23, 2019. These backpacks will be shared with the schools who may not have received enough donations. If you are donating directly to a school, please work with leader for that school to determine their deadline for donations. Questions? Please let me know if you have ANY questions about the program or the process. I want to thank the many people who have already donated or will be dropping off backpacks in the next few days. You have no idea of the positive impact that new backpack makes for the children who receive them. Many thanks, Maureen Maureen Brull, Sr. Consultant, Health & Welfare Benefit Programs, Cornell University, Division of Human Resources, Benefits Administration, 395 Pine Tree Road, EHOB, Suite 110, Ithaca, New York 14850, phone: 607-255-7509, fax: 607-255-6873, email: mpb8@cornell.edu, www.hr.cornell.edu BACKPACK LEADERS 2019 Leader Email Campus Address School Rhonda Dellinger rn57 465 Statler Hall Lansing Maureen Brull mpb8 395 Pine Tree Rd. Suite 102 Dryden Freeville Cassavant Cincinnatus Angie Giammarino amg297 Seneca Place Cindy Greco jkg52 Schwartz Center - Performing Arts Elmira Heights Wendy Treat wgt2 Office of Engagement, 3rd floor Kennedy Hall Watkins Glen Christie Sayre cms44 1029 Fernow Hall Spencer-Van Etten Dina Maxwell dem289 209 Dryden Road, Breazzano Northeast & BJM Bridgette Bush bip1 369 Pine Tree Road Marathon McGraw Michelle Zirbel mlz2 Statler Hotel Southern Caygua Lisa Clark lmc20 B7 Day Hall South Seneca Matt Conway mjc69 Johnson Art Museum Enfield Lynn Dowling lad25 130 E. Seneca Street Owego Apalachin Angie Smith ams27 B75 Mann Library Candor Penny Spoonhower pl82 Seneca Place Richford Summer Program & Newark Valley Vestals Tioga Hill Elementary Jennifer Mailey jam33 S2-009 Schurman Hall South Hill Elena Welch ew68 S2-013 Schurman Hall South Hill Laura Hufnagel ljh255 Warren Hall, Suite 201 Caroline Val Kelly vkelly23@live.com Moravia & Cayuga Heights Rhonda Dellinger Groton Jessica Divell jh144 S3008 Schurman Hall Newfield Jessica Townley jet239 B1 Jordan Hall Geneva James Hatch jfh89 B24F Humphrey Service Bldg. Horseheads Sarah Plaine plainesarah@gmail.com Odessa-Montour Popular Articles Employee Wellbeing Update - March 22, 2022 Cornell University Working at Cornell Site map About HR Contact HR Facebook YouTube Glassdoor LinkedIn DIVERSITY INITIATIVES Learn more about the university's initiatives and activities focused on creating a more inclusive and welcoming campus. SHARE Sexual Harassment Assault - Response and Education (SHARE): Resources and support for the entire Cornell community. Have you experienced or witnessed an incident of harassment, discrimination, bias, or other misconduct? Report an incident LOG IN TO: Workday Manager Tools Workforce Tools This site has been built to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) standards. If you experience difficulty accessing content here or on another Cornell website, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu. Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. This web resource is designed to enhance access to and understanding of Cornell's benefits, services, and human resource policies. This resource is not intended to create a contract between Cornell University and its employees or any other persons. Cornell University reserves the right to amend or revoke its policies at any time without notice. © 2022 Cornell University. All rights reserved.