View this email in your browser May 31, 2022 Update - View past editions Cornell Black Community Support & Action Meeting June 1, 4-6pm, G10 Biotech. Members of the Cornell Black community (students, faculty, and staff) are invited to a community support and action meeting. With support from Dr. Jacque T. Washington, space will be held to both process and grieve the continued acts of violence the Black community has experienced and to discuss actions that we as individuals and as a community can take. Sponsored by the Black Graduate and Professional Student Association in collaboration with the Graduate School Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement and with support from the Department of Inclusion and Belonging. LGBTQ+ Resource Guide for Faculty and Staff This guide offers suggestions for best practices for classroom and colleague engagement, a glossary with guidance on the use of appropriate terms, and resources available for the LGBTQ+ community. Cornell Military Network Gathering June 11, 1pm, Big Red Barn. Mingle with Cornell Military Network board members and other military affiliated Cornellians. Light refreshments served. All are welcome. Meditate at the Johnson Museum Lunchtime “Let’s Meditate” sessions are back this summer at the Johnson Museum! Wednesdays in June and July on the Mallin Sculpture Court (or inside in the wing if it rains) at 12:15pm for a half-hour of guided exercises. Cornell Retirement & Beyond Webinars June 2. Planning for life after retirement should involve not only looking at one's finances; there are other considerations, including health care. Attend this weminar that outlines the changes to your benefits as you prepare to transition into retirement. Endowed at 10am; Contract College at 1:30pm. Managing Debt So You Can Thrive (AARP) This on-demand webinar is focused on helping you manage debts so you can prepare for a financially secure retirement. Step It Up June 8 -29, 12pm, Schoellkopf Field. Meet at the Schoellkopf stadium for a group warm-up, running or walking (your choice) the steps, followed by a group cool-down. Cornell Wellness Recreation Membership required. How to Eat More Fiber — and 7 Reasons Why You Should (NewYork-Presbyterian) A gastroenterologist explains why fiber is so good for you, and the easiest ways to incorporate more into your diet. What’s “Bugging” You? First Friday Education Events (NYS Integrated Pest Management) June 3, 12pm. A focus on the surprising ways weather affects your gardening and giving your lawn the mowing edge. Exploring the Trees of the Arboretum June 5, 2pm, Cornell Botanic Gardens. Join this tree tour to learn about the wide diversity of tree species in the F.R. Newman Arboretum and why this diversity is so important to humans. The truth about the environmental paw print of dogs (and cats) — and how to reduce it (Ted.com) There are plenty of choices we can make, both small and large, to limit the environmental impact of our pets while helping them and the planet thrive. Genealogy Essentials: Census Research and Vital Records (New York Public Library) June 1, 4pm. New York Public Library boasts one of the country's largest free public collections of genealogical tools; this class introduces some key resources Geriatric Mental Health & Caregiver Support Services Webinar June 2, 10am. Discover what Family & Children's Services of Ithaca offers in regard to the social, emotional, and psychological needs of caregivers and their families. Call 607-274-5486 to register. Free book: Collaboration Begins with You - Be a Silo Buster (Skillsoft) Everyone knows collaboration creates high performing teams and organizations—and with today’s diverse, globalized workforce it’s absolutely crucial. This book teaches people at all levels how to promote and preserve a winning culture of collaboration. Cornell credentials required to access. Women Swimmin for Hospicare Registration Open Aug. 13. An annual fundraising event that supports the holistic care which Hospicare & Palliative Care Services brings to patients and their loved ones at any stage of a life-limiting illness and/or following a death. There are many ways to get involved - swim the lake, be a boater, volunteer, or donate! You choose which is the best fit for you. About the Wellbeing Update: Information provided by Cornell Work/Life, Cornell Wellness, and the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program about campus and community resources, programs, and events. Explore past editions or email wellbeing@cornell.edu to ask questions or suggest a resource. Published roughly every other week. Information shared does not indicate Cornell endorsement. Copyright © 2022 Cornell University, All rights reserved. This email was sent to <<Email Address>> why did I get this? unsubscribe from this list update subscription preferences CU · 2222 · Tully, Ny 13159 · USA