Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Office of Human Resources Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Office of Human Resources Toggle navigation Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Home Sections Employment & Recruitment Services Veterans' Preference Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Working at FSU For Departments Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Veterans' Preference Welcome to the Veterans' Preference page, brought to you by the Office of Human Resources at Florida State University (FSU). We are very thankful for your service, and we are pleased that you are considering employment at FSU. Certain servicemembers and veterans, and the spouses and family members of such servicemembers and veterans, receive preference and priority, and certain servicemembers may be eligible to receive waivers for postsecondary educational requirements, in employment by the state and its political subdivisions and are encouraged to apply for the positions being filled. FSU is committed to honoring the preference given by Florida law to U.S. Veterans, and the spouses and family members of Veterans, in appointment and retention in employment. We encourage eligible persons to apply for any open, qualified positions and pledge to comply with Veterans' preference guidelines when filling these positions. The Veterans Alliance arrowhead is the proud symbol of Florida State University's campus-wide commitment to become a national beacon of veteran support and success. We invite you to view our current openings, utilize the available resources, and consider Human Resources a partner in your job search. Frequently Asked Questions What is Veterans' Preference? Under Florida law, Veterans' Preference at FSU is applicable to University Support Personnel System (USPS) positions only. FSU uses a non-points based system; therefore, if an applicant qualifies for Veterans' Preference and the USPS position, preference is given at every step in the selection process. At the first step, the eligible applicant who meets the qualifications, is shown preference by the guarantee of an interview. Veterans' Preference is not a guarantee of a job, as the final choice is based upon who the decision maker believes is the most qualified. What are the categories under which I can claim veterans' preference? Refer to 295.07, Florida Statutes. How do I claim Veterans' Preference? If one of the categories above is applicable to you, complete the following before midnight of the position closing date in order to claim Veterans' Preference: Apply for an USPS position; Attach the Required Documentation to support your claim with each application you submit; A Veteran must be discharged with nothing less than an Honorable discharge as indicated on the DD214 or equivalent documentation; and Answer "Yes" to the following question on each application you submit: "Are you claiming Veterans' Preference?" Why is FSU a great place to work? One of the nation's elite research universities, Florida State University preserves, expands, and disseminates knowledge in the sciences, technology, arts, humanities, and professions, while embracing a philosophy of learning strongly rooted in the traditions of the liberal arts and critical thinking. People choose to work at Florida State University for many reasons, and there are even more reasons why they stay for a career. At FSU, there's the excitement of being part of a vibrant academic and professional community, surrounded by people whose ideas are shaping tomorrow's news. In your search for new employment opportunities, please take advantage of the many resources that only a world-class university can provide. Click here for more facts about FSU. What benefits does FSU offer their employees? FSU has a robust benefits offering. Click here to see the variety of benefits available to FSU employees. Visit the Student Veterans Center page for information pertaining to Student Veteran Benefits. Where can I find additional resources? FSU Office of Human Resources Chart for documentation required to claim preference FSU Career Center FSU Student Veterans Center Career Source Capital Region - Veterans page Florida Department of Veterans' Affairs - Employment Resources Florida Department of Veterans' Affairs - Veterans' Preference FAQs Section 295.07, Florida Statutes Chapter 55A-7, Florida Administrative Code The Human Resources Veteran Liaison vision is to build a lasting partnership with current and future veteran employees by playing an active role in the recruitment and retention of veteran applicants at the University. What if I have questions about claiming Veterans' Preference? If you have questions or need assistance with the application process, please contact HR-Employment & Recruitment Services at veteran-jobs@fsu.edu or (850)-644-6034. title-inside title-centered 2 Office of Human Resources 282 Champions Way A6200 University Center Tallahassee, Florida 32306 Phone: (850) 644-6034 Fax: (850) 645-9508 Email: hr@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media