Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Office of Human Resources Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Office of Human Resources Toggle navigation Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Home Important Hiring Reminders Important Hiring Reminders This message has been approved by Shelley Lopez, Program Director, Communications/Special Projects, for distribution to all Department Representatives. As we continue with the summer semester and in anticipation of fall hiring, we have important appointment reminders to share with you. Hiring Fall express pools are available for use for OPS, GA, and OPS Faculty appointments. Training guides are available for step-by-step instructions. Before offering a prospective employee Recruiting Incentives (sign-on bonus or direct payment of moving expenses), pre-approvals must be received from the Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO), the appropriate Vice-President, and where applicable, Sponsored Research Administration (Contract and Grants). The incentive must be documented in the offer letter, and applicable forms are to be included with the offer letter. I-9 Deadlines: Section 1 of the I-9 form must be completed on or before the employee’s first day of work. Section 2 of the form must be completed by the third business day. If you hire an employee who will be working remotely and is not available to complete an in-person I-9 on campus, complete the Remote I-9 Request form to initiate the remote I-9 process. Graduate Assistant Appointments New M9183 job code is available for Graduate Teaching Associate appoinments. Examples: For graduate-level or co-listed courses, tutors, recitation leaders, laboratory supervisors, assistants to faculty instructors, or comparable roles. Effective August 8, 2022, the minimum hourly rate for all GA appointments is $20.83 per hour. Please ensure Fall appointments meet the new minimum stipend. All Fall appointments must have a minimum appointment period of at least five (5) business days before the first day of classes through the last day of finals as outlined in the academic calendar. Appointments for teaching assignments that require grading duties must continue through the grade submission deadline. Where practicable, graduate assistants who are appointed in both the Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 semesters should have a continuous appointment between semesters, without a break in funding. How can you ensure your employees are paid on time? Timely submitted job offers with appropriate anticipated start dates and meeting the payroll deadlines are key components in ensuring your employees are appointed and paid timely. Delays in submission or approval of actions and incomplete appointment documentation will delay processing and result in delays in pay and system access. Job Offers and Start Dates: Job Offers must be submitted 2-3 weeks in advance of the anticipated start date for all appointments. If Job Offers are not received 2 weeks in advance, Human Resources will work with the department to determine an appropriate start date. Why is 2-3 Weeks Required? Sufficient time for candidate steps, including smart onboarding invitation, background check initiation, and document submission. Time required to obtain all required approvals for job offer, Employment of Relatives, Outside Employment, and Dual Compensation. Time required for completing department onboarding steps, the criminal history background, and submitting all the necessary work authorization and onboarding documents. To be compliant with University Policies and Procedures, work should not begin until onboarding and all required approvals are complete. Payroll Deadlines: Complete Smart Onboarding appointments are due according to Smart Onboarding Deadlines Calendar. Invitations are considered complete when all required documents and approvals are submitted to HR for final processing. Onboarding invitations received after the deadline or missing required documents may not be processed by the end of the pay period. Other Personnel Actions (pPAF, ePAF, Additional/One Time Payment Requests) must be received by the deadline for personnel actions. Meeting Payroll Deadlines helps to ensure that: New employees can obtain appropriate system, building, and email access on their first day of work. Employees receive timely and accurate paychecks. New employees can make timely benefit selections (if applicable). Background Checks Approval from the Office of Human Resources must be received for all appointments before work begins per University Policy 4-OP-C-7-B11. Previous or current appointments do not negate the requirement for approval by HR before work begins. Purchase Order transition to the Fiscal Year 2023: The deadline to create new Background Check Purchase Orders for FY 2023 is July 8, 2022. Please create the new POs before the end of the FY. Working with Regulated Materials? For easy lookup and to ensure compliance, refer to our new comprehensive List of Materials covered under the various federal regulations which require Level 2 Background Checks. myFSU BI Reports for Appointment Verification Active Employees Report: Should be run on Wednesdays before the time entry deadline, each pay period during a normal pay cycle. All appointments that made deadline should appear on the report for verification. Verify appointment details and report any discrepancies via an FSU Service Center case. Cost Center Report: Available during payroll processing. Two preliminary reports are released before the final report, one on Friday afternoon and one on Monday morning, during normal pay cycles. Discrepancies on the Cost Center Report should be addressed as soon as possible through an FSU Service Center case. The deadline for cases during a normal payroll cycle is 10:30 a.m. on Monday. Employee Eligibility for Insurance Below are some reminders regarding insurance eligibility and transference of state plans between appointments for OPS and salaried employees (USPS, A&P, and Faculty): Benefit-eligible OPS position to full-time salaried position – State insurance benefit elections will transfer. It is not a Qualifying State Change (QSC) event to enroll due to hire in salaried position. Salaried position to an OPS position – all OPS eligible insurance benefits will transfer to the OPS position, unless there has been a Break in Service of 26 weeks or more. Transfer from other State employment – all enrolled and eligible insurance benefits will transfer to FSU whether the position is OPS eligible, OPS ineligible, or salaried. More scenarios and helpful resources regarding eligibility are available on the HR Benefits website. Questions? For questions regarding the Background Check process, please contact Andrew Kapec at akapec@fsu.edu or (850) 644-7939. For questions regarding the appointment or onboarding process, please contact Amy Espinosa at amy.espinosa@fsu.edu or (850) 644-4286, or Abigail Lejeune at alejeune@fsu.edu or (850) 644-6470. For questions regarding benefits and eligibility, please contact Kelly McLaughlin at kmmclaughlin@fsu.edu or (850) 644-8732. Article Date May 31, 2022 Office of Human Resources 282 Champions Way A6200 University Center Tallahassee, Florida 32306 Phone: (850) 644-6034 Fax: (850) 645-9508 Email: hr@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media