Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion Career TITANS REACH HIGHER Your Titan Career Begins Here! Faculty Staff/Management Students Benefits at a Glance The Titan Community Work/Life Balance Notice of Availability of the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report California State University Fullerton is committed to assisting all members of the community in providing for their own safety and security. Pursuant to the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, the 2021 Annual Security Report (ASR) is available on the CSUF website. The ASR contains the current security and safety-related policy statements, emergency preparedness and evacuation information, crime prevention and sexual assault prevention information, and information about drug and alcohol prevention programming. The ASR also contains statistics of Clery crimes for California State University, Fullerton for 2018-2020. A paper copy of the ASR is available upon request by contacting the Office of the Clery Director located at the Langsdorf Hall Room 805 (Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs). In addition, pursuant to the Higher Education Opportunity Act, the 2021 Annual Fire Safety Report (AFSR) is available on the CSUF website. The purpose of this report is to disclose statistics for fires that occurred within California State University, Fullerton housing facilities for 2018-2020, and to distribute fire safety policies and procedures intended to promote safety on campus. A paper copy of the AFSR is available upon request by contacting the Housing Office located at The Housing & Residential Engagement Main Office. This site is maintained by Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion. Last Published 2/16/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact dl-hr_it_support@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.