Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation CURRENT EMPLOYEES JOB SEEKERS RETIREES FORMS HRDI DEPARTMENTS DIVERSITY, INCLUSION & EQUITY CHRS Diversity, Inclusion, & Equity Programs Welcome The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Programs (DIEP) supports the CSUF mission of preparing our diverse student body for academic and professional success. We develop and support practices, programming, and policies across the broad spectrum of inclusivity, equity and civility for the CSUF campus community. Through the provision of consultation and training, we strive to promote a campus community wherein students, staff and faculty are engaged in the values of inclusive excellence. Communities Initiatives Learning Opportunities Equitable Searches Resources Addressing Bias, Discrimination, and Hate Our office supports the campus commitment to being an inclusive environment that is free from discrimination, harassment, retaliation and bias. We have many resources available to support this commitment. Find more information about Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation, Anti-Racism Resources, and much more. About Us Our Mission & Vision Meet the Team This site is maintained by Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion. Last Published 5/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hr@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.