Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation CURRENT EMPLOYEES JOB SEEKERS RETIREES FORMS HRDI DEPARTMENTS DIVERSITY, INCLUSION & EQUITY CHRS Welcome to California State University, Fullerton where you will explore an opportunity for a career. To work at Cal State Fullerton is to be part of an elite organization of people. We are proud Titans who are a unique and diverse group whose core mission is student success. University Employment Management and Staff Opportunities Full Time Faculty Positions Site Part Time Faculty Positions Site Auxiliary Services Corporation Associated Students, Inc. Opportunities NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY OF THE ANNUAL SECURITY AND FIRE SAFETY REPORT California State University Fullerton is committed to assisting all members of the community in providing for their own safety and security. The annual security and fire safety report is available on the CSUF website at http://police.fullerton.edu/documents/ASFSR2016.pdf . If you would like to receive a hard copy of the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report which contains this information, you can stop by the Police Department in at 800 North State College Blvd or you can request that a copy be mailed to you by calling (657) 278-7286. The website and booklet contain information regarding campus security and personal safety including topics such as: crime prevention, university police law enforcement authority, crime reporting policies, fire safety, disciplinary procedures and other matters of importance related to security on campus. They also contain information about fire statistics in CSUF Residence Halls and crime statistics for the three previous calendar years concerning reported crimes that occurred on campus; in certain off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by CSUF; and on public property within, or immediately adjacent to and accessible from the campus. This information is required by law and is provided by CSUF Police Department. For Students Associated Student, Inc. Auxiliary Services Corporation Internship and Community Engagement Student Employment Site Unit 11 Jobs - Instructional Student Assistants, Graduate Assistants and Teaching Associates Site For Alumni Career Information for Graduates This site is maintained by Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion. Last Published 8/9/19 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hr@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.2.2 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.