Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Office of Human Resources Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Office of Human Resources Toggle navigation Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Home Timekeeping Guidance for the Memorial Day Holiday Timekeeping Guidance for the Memorial Day Holiday This message has been approved by Christine Conley, Senior Associate Director of Attendance & Leave, for distribution to all Department Representatives. The Memorial Day holiday occurs on Monday, May 30, 2022. The payroll processing schedule for Pay Period ‘Y’ is normal. To be paid for the holiday, USPS, A&P, Executive Service (AEX), and Faculty employees should be in pay status (either working or on approved leave) at least a portion of the scheduled workday before the holiday. Full-time employees receive 8 hours of leave for holidays. Part-time employees receive a proportionate number of leave hours for holidays based on their FTE. Example – While a 1.0 FTE employee gets 8 hours of paid holiday leave for each day, a 0.75 FTE employee would get 6 hours of paid holiday leave. If you have employees on alternate schedules (full-time or part-time), they should be advised in advance to work the appropriate hours for the workweek of May 27, 2022 – June 2, 2022, based on the amount of holiday leave they receive for the holiday. Reporting Memorial Day holiday for workweek of May 27 – June 2: Elapsed Timesheet DO NOT ENTER TIME FOR THE HOLIDAY for A&P, AEX, USPS, or Faculty employees using the elapsed timesheet. The OMNI HR elapsed timesheet will show no hours (blank) for May 30. The holiday hours will be added in automatically by the system. See example below: Punch Timesheet Nonexempt USPS employees using the USPS punch timesheet (only) must enter their holiday hours for May 30. See example below: OPS Employees OPS employees are not eligible to receive holiday pay. OPS Nonexempt Employees (paid for time worked) do not receive holiday pay. Only the hours worked should be reported on the timesheet. OPS Exempt Employees (Grad Assistants/Adjuncts/OPS Faculty) do not report time on their timesheets. If the employee is funded during the holiday period, the system will generate pay based on their appointment. Compensatory Leave If a full-time USPS or A&P employee worked on the holiday and/or beyond the required number of hours for the workweek, the Time Reporting Code of "Straight Time Comp Earned - REGCE" should be reported as described in the following scenarios: A&P Exempt Use “Straight-time Comp Earned – REGCE” if the employee worked on the holiday (May 30) and worked more than the required 32 hours during the holiday workweek (8 hours maximum REGCE allowed). USPS Nonexempt Use “Straight-time Comp Earned – REGCE” if the employee worked more than the required 32 hours during the holiday workweek (8 hours maximum REGCE allowed). If an employee physically worked more than 40 hours during the holiday workweek, do one of the following: To generate Overtime Comp Leave Earned – enter OTCCE for hours over 40. To generate Overtime Pay – enter either OVHHP or REGHP for hours over 40. USPS Exempt Use “Straight-time Comp Earned – REGCE” if the employee worked more than the required 32 hours during the holiday workweek (8 hours maximum REGCE allowed). If an employee physically worked more than 40 hours during the holiday workweek, do one of the following: To generate Straight-time Comp Leave Earned – enter REGCE for hours over 40. To generate Pay at the Straight-time Rate – enter REGHP for hours over 40. Other Types of Leave Employees on Workers’ Compensation Since most of these employees receive Workers’ Compensation payment for approximately 2/3 of their wages, their holiday pay should be proportional (approximately 1/3). Both the Workers’ Compensation and the holiday amounts need to be reported on the timesheet. Elapsed timesheet example for the holiday workweek: Fri 5/27 Sat 5/28 Sun 5/29 Mon 5/30 Tue 5/31 Wed 6/1 Thu 6/2 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 Workers Comp – WKCHT 2.75 2.75 2.75 2.75 Sick Leave Taken – SKCHT -5.25 Holiday - HOLHT Punch timesheet example for the holiday workweek: Time Reporting Code Quantity Fri – 5/27 Sick Leave Taken - SCKHT Workers Comp - WKCHT 2.75 5.25 Sat – 5/28 Sun – 5/29 Mon – 5/30 Holiday - HOLHT Workers Comp - WKCHT 2.75 5.25 Tue – 5/31 Sick Leave Taken - SCKHT Workers Comp - WKCHT 2.75 5.25 Wed – 6/1 Sick Leave Taken - SCKHT Workers Comp - WKCHT 2.75 5.25 Thu – 6/2 Sick Leave Taken - SCKHT Workers Comp - WKCHT 2.75 5.25 Employees on Family and Medical Leave If an employee is on continuous FMLA, they MUST report FMLAT on the holiday. If the employee is on intermittent FMLA, do not report FMLAT for the holiday. (The following is only an example of an elapsed timesheet. The corresponding leave code can be sick leave, vacation leave, straight time compensatory leave, overtime compensatory leave, or leave without pay). Elapsed timesheet example for the holiday workweek: Fri 5/27 Sat 5/28 Sun 5/29 Mon 5/30 Tue 5/31 Wed 6/1 Thu 6/2 8 8 8 8 8 Family Medical Leave Taken - FMLAT 8 8 8 8 Sick Leave Taken – SKCHT Overseas Time Reporting Certain non-US citizens working outside of the United States must report Overseas Hours Worked (OVSEA) in conjunction with hours worked/leave. The following is an example of a full-time OPS Exempt employee who was approved to use this code while working overseas. Elapsed timesheet example for the holiday workweek: Fri 5/27 Sat 5/28 Sun 5/29 Mon 5/30 Tue 5/31 Wed 6/1 Thu 6/2 8 8 8 8 8 Regular Hours Worked (REGHP) / Contract Hours (REGCP) 8 8 8 8 8 Overseas Hours Worked - OVSEA Resources Department Representatives should review time entry queries and myFSU BI reports to ensure their department’s timekeeping is compliant with University guidelines. Please reference the time entry guidance on the HR website. Questions? Please contact a member of the Attendance & Leave staff. Article Date May 27, 2022 Office of Human Resources 282 Champions Way A6200 University Center Tallahassee, Florida 32306 Phone: (850) 644-6034 Fax: (850) 645-9508 Email: hr@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media