Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion Career The Titan Community Cal State Fullerton is a leading campus of the CSU, serving as an intellectual and cultural center for Southern California and driver of workforce and economic development. We develop and support practices, programming, and policies across the broad spectrum of inclusivity, equity and civility for the CSUF campus community. We strive to promote a campus community wherein students, staff and faculty are engaged in the values of inclusive excellence. For more information on Cal State Fullerton’s diverse and inclusive community, please visit our Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Program. Faculty & Staff Associations Black Faculty and Staff Association Asian American and Pacific Islander Faculty and Staff Association Chicano/Latino Faculty and Staff Association Pride Alliance Researchers and Critical Educators (RACE) Undocumented Allies Faculty and Staff Association Veterans Faculty and Staff Association LGBTQ Gender neutral restrooms map Supporting Transgender Employees handbook Diversity & Inclusion Resources View various diversity and inclusion resources available to the campus community. Disability Resources Student Disability Support Services Americans With Disabilities Act and Disability Accommodations for Employees Veterans Veterans Resourse Center WoMen’s Center WoMen’s Center This site is maintained by Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion. Last Published 6/1/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact dl-hr_it_support@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.