Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation CURRENT EMPLOYEES JOB SEEKERS RETIREES FORMS HRDI DEPARTMENTS DIVERSITY, INCLUSION & EQUITY CHRS 2022 Customer Satisfaction Survey How Do I Take the Survey? The survey has now closed. Thank you to those who participated. Who is Being Asked to Take the Survey? Faculty, staff, MPP/administrators and student employees will receive an invitation to participate in the survey. How Will The Results be Used? Individual responses will be kept confidential and reported at the aggregate level. A report of key findings will be posted on this webpage by fall 2022. What can I Win? Completing your survey will automatically enter you into an opportunity drawing to win a pair of Apple Airpods, a JBL Go 2 Portable Speaker, a CSUF backpack or a CSUF blanket. Please note: Your survey responses are confidential. We do not know how you answer the survey. We only know if you completed it in order to award prizes. Prize Winner JBL Go 2 Portable Speaker TBA CSUF backpack TBA CSUF blanket TBA Apple Airpods (2nd Gen) TBA Prize Restrictions: Generally, prizes received by faculty, staff, and students are taxable and reportable income to the recipient per IRS regulations at their fair market value. University Guidelines: Employee - Reported in W-2 "Wage and Tax Statement" and is subject to federal and FICA withholding based on graduated rates of the fair market value of the prize/award. Nonresident Alien Student including Student Employee - Report in 1042S "Foreign Person's US Source Income Subject to Withholding", regardless of the fair market value of the prize/award. Prizes are non-transferable and prizes/awards not claimed after 30 days will result in forfeiture. FAQs How do I take the survey? The survey link will be posted to this webpage and emailed to all CSUF employees on April 4. What should I do if I experience technical problems with the survey? If you experience any technical difficulties with the survey, do not submit your entire survey. Click NEXT to save your progress, then email HRDISurveys@fullerton.edu to notify HRDI of the problem. What should I do if I did not receive an invite email? If you did not receive an invite email titled “HRDI Customer Satisfaction Survey 2022” from HRDISurveys@fullerton.edu, please email HRDISurveys@fullerton.edu to notify HRDI of the issue. Are my responses confidential? Yes, your individual responses will be kept confidential. After the survey closes on May 16, only the cumulative survey results will be used for improvement. How long will the survey take to complete? Each department survey should take less than 2-3 minutes to rate and you are only requested to rate the department(s) that you have received service from during the past 12 months. How will the information be used? Your valuable feedback will be used to assist the departments within the division of Human Resources, Diversity & Inclusion to identify opportunities for improvement as they plan and prioritize initiatives related to improving service, quality, and processes in the coming year. Individual responses will be kept confidential and reported at the aggregate level. A report of key findings will be posted on this webpage by fall 2022. Questions? Call (657) 278-8213 or email HRDISurveys@fullerton.edu On behalf of the division of Human Resources, Diversity & Inclusion, thank you for your vital feedback. We look forward to identifying opportunities to better serve you and look forward to sharing the results along with our progress in the upcoming year. past results View the 2020 Survey Results View the 2021 Survey Results This site is maintained by Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion. Last Published 5/17/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hr@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.7 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.