Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Office of Human Resources Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Office of Human Resources Toggle navigation Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Home Working at FSU New Employees Prospective Employees New Employees New Employees: Faculty New Employees: Staff New Employees: OPS Current Employees New Employees Welcome to Florida State University! We are excited to have you on our team! FSU is a great place to work and we encourage you to take advantage of all the resources available to you as an employee. This page is designed to help your transition to our campus and provide you with the necessary steps you must complete as a new employee. The University's New Employee Orientation program is available online for all newly hired employees to provide them with information concerning employee benefits, rules and regulations affecting employment, basic cybersecurity awareness, and University operating procedures. Orientation is mandatory for all employees. New Faculty members who attend New Faculty Orientation at the beginning of the academic year are not required to complete the online orientation. To get started, please select the appropriate link based on your job classification (Faculty, Staff or OPS) and watch each of the New Employee Orientation presentations. Once you have completed the presentations, please submit the electronic Certification of Completion & Evaluation of Orientation form. New Employee Orientation Presentations Faculty Staff OPS In addition to the above New Employee Orientation presentations, At-Risk for Faculty and Staff Training is Required for All State University Employees The Florida Board of Governors (BOG) requires that all state university employees complete Kognito’s At-Risk for Faculty and Staff online training. All University Faculty, Staff and OPS Classifications (Adjunct Faculty, Graduate Assistants, Resident Assistants and Temporary OPS (non-student) are required to complete the training. All new employees must complete this training as soon as possible. Instructions for completing the training are listed below. We thank you in advance for your compliance with this important BOG requirement! Instructions Visit the Kognito webpage on the FSU University Counseling Center's website. Sign in with your FSU account credentials. Launch Kognito's At-Risk for Faculty and Staff mental health awareness training. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the training simulations. Receive your Certificate of Completion at the end of the training. Resources EEO Statement Faculty and Staff Fitness and Wellness FDLE Sexual Offender and Predator Registry Information Florida State University Strategic Plan FSU & You - Employee Handbook FSU Legacy Walk FSU Police Department Getting Started - New Employee Checklist New to Tallahassee? Office of Faculty Development and Advancement Sexual Misconduct and Title IX policies Summary of Benefits University Organizational Charts Training and Organizational Development Opportunities About FSU Virtual Tours Employee Technology Essentials Upcoming Training Events More Events title-inside title-centered 2 Office of Human Resources 282 Champions Way A6200 University Center Tallahassee, Florida 32306 Phone: (850) 644-6034 Fax: (850) 645-9508 Email: hr@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media