Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion HRDI Strategic Plan Main Navigation Goal 1 Goal 2 Goal 3 Goal 4 Goal 5 HRDI Strategic Plan 2018 – 2023 HRDI Strategic Plan Over the next five academic years, HRDI will act to make progress in five goal areas, listed as “strategic directions.” Each strategic direction includes a number of more specific objectives. It is expected that implementation of these objectives will last through 2023. This website will be used to document planning, timelines, and measurable outcomes for each goal and to track progress over the next five years. VISION The vision of the Human Resources, Diversity, and Inclusion (HRDI) Division is to empower the CSUF community through excellent and innovative service. MISSION HRDI’s mission is to deliver valuable services to create an environment where a diverse community thrives. VALUES People first, contributing to a community of belonging; Inclusion, embracing and welcoming diversity; Integrity, with the aim of honesty and trustworthiness in all interactions; Diligence, with careful and consistent effort; Innovation, introducing original and creative thinking; and Collaboration, creating better solutions together than we could alone HRDI Strategic Plan 2018-2023 This site is maintained by HRDI Strategic Plan. Last Published 9/11/20 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hr@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.