Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Office of Human Resources Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Office of Human Resources Toggle navigation Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Home Sections Employment & Recruitment Services Application FAQs Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Working at FSU For Departments Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Application FAQs What is an A&P Position? Administrative and Professional - these positions are assigned administrative and management or professional duties. What is an USPS Position? University Support Personnel System - these positions are assigned professional, paraprofessional, administrative, clerical, secretarial, technical, skilled crafts, service or maintenance duties. What is a postal code? A postal code is the same as your zip code. What is the deadline to apply? An applicant must apply before midnight EST of the position closing date. Do I have to complete the application in one sitting? No. You do not need to complete and submit the application all at one time. You can save the application by clicking “Save as Draft”, and return to the website before the application deadline to submit your application. The application deadline shows as “01/01/9999”. What does this mean? This means the job opening is being advertised as open until filled. If you are interested in the position, it is recommended that you submit your application as soon as possible. Are all sections of the application required? It is an applicant’s responsibility to ensure that their online application reflects their qualifications. The sections generally required are outlined below; however, depending on the job posting instructions and qualifications, additional sections or attachments may be required. Faculty application: Terms & Conditions, upload Vita, Education, Questionnaire, Self-Identification pages. Staff and OPS applications: Terms & Conditions, Education, Current and Prior Work Experience (include all work experience, up to 10 years), Referral, Questionnaire, Self-Identification pages. Can I submit a resume/vita and other documentation with the application? You will have the option to attach a resume and other supporting documents each time you apply for a position. A resume/vita is required for faculty positions and suggested for A&P positions. Some job postings will outline requirements for certain attachments in the “Qualifications” or “How to Apply” sections. Note: Attaching a resume does not substitute for completing the entire online application. The application asks for my highest level of education obtained. Can I include the degree I’m working toward? Each time you apply, the system will prompt you to select your highest level of education obtained from the drop-down menu. Only select the highest level you have earned. If you are currently working toward a degree, you may add those details in the Degree section. Include the anticipated effective date and make sure the “Graduated” box is set to “no” after submitting your entry. Alternatively, you can include information for degrees currently underway in your resume/vita. The job posting indicates applicants must request confidential letters of reference to be submitted on my behalf. How do I send these prompts? After submitting your application, click the Careers link; Click the My References link; Click the Send/View Reference Request button next to the appropriate position; and Follow the steps on that page to send your references a system generated email requesting they submit a letter of recommendation on your behalf. You may also return to the My References link and click on "Send/View Reference Request" to see if your references have responded, add additional references, or resend requests. Where can I go to get help with the online application? Click here for Application Help. Can I revise my application after I have applied for a position? Once an application has been submitted you will not be able to update that application. If the job is still posted, you may re-apply and submit another application for the position. You will receive a message that states you have already applied. Click “OK” and proceed with submitting a revised application. The department should then screen by your most recently submitted application. Do I have to submit an application for each position I'm interested in? Yes. You must submit an application for each position for which you would like to be considered. Do I have to have to re-enter all my information each time I apply? Although some parts of the application must be filled out each time you apply, most of the information will carry forward to your next application if you are logged in with the same user name and password. Is there a way for me to delete my old applications or resumes? No. Previously submitted applications and attachments are part of the historical record; as such, you cannot delete them. Who can I contact if I have any questions, or would like to check the status of my application? The general status of a search can be found by logging in, clicking on “My Applications” from the Careers page, and referring to the “Status” column. You may also contact Employment and Recruitment Services at jobs@fsu.edu or (850) 644-6034. If I want to contact a hiring department, where can I find the contact information and when should I reach out? If there is not a specific point of contact listed in the job posting, you may search for department contact information here, or contact Employment and Recruitment Services at jobs@fsu.edu or (850) 644-6034. Please wait at least two weeks after the position has closed before contacting the department. title-inside title-centered 2 Office of Human Resources 282 Champions Way A6200 University Center Tallahassee, Florida 32306 Phone: (850) 644-6034 Fax: (850) 645-9508 Email: hr@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media