Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation CURRENT EMPLOYEES JOB SEEKERS RETIREES FORMS HRDI DEPARTMENTS DIVERSITY, INCLUSION & EQUITY CHRS Current Employees The division of Human Resources, Diversity & Inclusion is ready to assist you throughout your career at Cal State Fullerton. Find all of the resources you need to help navigate the campus as a Titan and major events in your personal life. Whatever stage of employment you are at, we hope you take advantage of all that CSUF has to offer. FACULTY Find HR resources for academic/faculty positions at CSUF. Academic Appointments Benefits/Total Wellness CSUF Careers Employee Payroll Faculty Compensation Faculty Recruitment Visas and Permanent Residency STAFF Find HR resources for staff, management and administrator positions at CSUF. Benefits/Total Wellness CSUF Careers Employee Payroll Staff/Management Compensation Staff/Management Recruitment Visas and Permanent Residency STUDENTS Find HR resources for student assistant employees at CSUF. Jobs Eligibility Resources Student Assistant Employment Student Employee Payroll Types of Employment Training Resources Find urgent employee needs related to labor and employee relations, risk management services, and more. Find Resources Work / Life balance Find resources to maintain a healthy work/life balance. Your Work/Life Resources DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND EQUITY PROGRAMS Find information and resources related to Diversity, Inclusion and Equity at CSUF. View Diversity Resources Manager resources Find resources for hiring managers and supervisors to help manage your staff. View Manager Resources New employee resources Day 2 and beyond. Your source for your first 30 days at CSUF. View New Employee Resources Questions & concerns? Find resources to submit a question to HRDI, file a complaint/claim, or report a hazard/liability. Questions & Concerns This site is maintained by Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion. Last Published 10/7/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hr@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.7 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.