Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation CURRENT EMPLOYEES JOB SEEKERS RETIREES FORMS HRDI DEPARTMENTS DIVERSITY, INCLUSION & EQUITY CHRS About HRDI Strategic Plan Annual Report Annual Satisfaction Survey Organizational Chart David Forgues, Ph.D., SHRM-SCP Vice President for Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion Welcome to Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion. We are a young division that is committed to the mission of meeting the needs of a multi-cultural, diverse campus community. Our highly qualified team of professionals is focused on providing traditional human resource services and supports the University’s goal to recruit and retain a high-quality and diverse faculty and staff. Through integrated human resource programs we deliver valuable information, tools and services while embracing and respecting the differences that make up our Titan community. Our commitment to inclusiveness supports the overarching university goal to become the premier comprehensive university in the country, nationally recognized for exceptional programs that prepare our diverse student body for academic and professional success. We value human connections and are eager to assist faculty, staff, students, and applicants with all their employment related needs and encourage a healthy work life balance by providing resources such as our Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Advancing the mission of the University with innovative solutions and a standard of excellence, we look forward to partnering with you. Titans Reach Higher PEOPLE LEADERSHIP TEAM DAVID FORGUES, PH.D., SHRM-SCP Vice President, Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion TARA GARCIA Chief of Operations, Office of the Vice President PHENICIA MCCULLOUGH Associate Vice President, Human Resources Services BOBBIE PORTER Assistant Vice President, Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Programs JOHN BEISNER Executive Director, Risk Management and Compliance MICHELLE TAPPER Assistant Vice President, Labor and Employee Relations View PLT bios here This site is maintained by Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion. Last Published 10/8/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hr@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.7 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.