Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Office of Human Resources Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Office of Human Resources Toggle navigation Home About Us Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Working at FSU Prospective Employees New Employees Current Employees Employee Development Total Rewards Compensation Leave Plans Additional Benefits and Perks Insurance Retirement Policies Communications Distributions HR News Announcements Special Projects Policies Calendars Department Representative Resources Sections Attendance & Leave Benefits for Faculty and Staff Compensation Services Employee Data Management Employee & Labor Relations Employment & Recruitment Services Equity, Diversity & Inclusion HR Satellite Offices Ombuds Program Training & Organizational Development Faculty Relations HR Records Home About Us Strategic Initiatives Leadership Contacts Strategic Initiatives Locations Strategic Initiatives Mission The Office of Human Resources serves as a strategic partner to advance the mission of the University by attracting, developing, and inspiring excellence in a diverse and inclusive campus community. Vision The Office of Human Resources strives to be a strategically-driven leader in higher education human resources by providing effective solutions to our customers through innovation, collaboration, and exceptional service. Strategic Initiatives HR Performance Excellence: Continue development of an innovative, strategic-focused Human Resources (HR) team that consistently demonstrates HR Service Excellence and maximizes organizational effectiveness. Maximize the potential for HR employee development, leadership development and succession planning. Cultivate a workplace culture where HR employees contribute their best work, advance their personal success and support the mission of FSU. Enhance the customer experience and exceed stakeholder expectations through continuous improvement in the delivery of effective and efficient HR services to support University needs. Talent Management Maintain a high performing and diverse workforce by attracting, engaging, and retaining key talent, increasing individual and team performance, and sustaining FSU as a great place to work. Expand recruitment efforts through new and innovative recruiting strategies and employer branding. Inculcate a culture of career enrichment. Champion the University’s Diversity and Inclusion charge. Total Rewards Ensure fair and competitive, cost-effective Total Rewards’ programs that enhance the well-being of employees, retain key talent, and position FSU as an employer of choice. Ensure a fair and market competitive compensation structure to help attract, retain, and reward high-performing talent. Develop policies and best practices in the area of work-life balance with an open and supportive management culture. Cultivate employee success and well-being by creating a culture that promotes health and wellness. Foster an organizational environment that is motivating, rewarding and provides meaningful opportunities for employee growth and development. Core Values Critical Thinking: Committing to a learning culture devoted to engaging in meaningful developmental opportunities and problem solving through disciplined thinking that is rational and informed. Customer Focus & Innovation: Providing customer-focused solutions that are timely, proactive, and forward thinking by means of innovation, adaptability, prudent risk-taking, and application of best practices. Diversity & Inclusion: Recognizing the differences in people and leveraging those differences to maximize the performance of Human Resources and the University as a whole. Integrity: Conducting ourselves in an honest, ethical, and forthright manner with an unwavering commitment to fairness and doing what is in the best interest of the University. Performance Excellence: Providing the highest quality services effectively and efficiently, while maintaining an adaptability to change that meets the dynamic needs of the University and our constituencies. Professionalism & Accountability: Conducting business in a highly proficient and proactive manner that exhibits integrity, a spirit of collaboration, respect, continuous improvement, and exceptional service while accepting responsibility for our actions and our work product. Strategic Partnering: Embracing the interconnectivity that exists with our partners in Human Resources and throughout the campus community to develop strategic solutions by fostering a culture committed to effective collaboration. title-inside title-centered 2 Office of Human Resources 282 Champions Way A6200 University Center Tallahassee, Florida 32306 Phone: (850) 644-6034 Fax: (850) 645-9508 Email: hr@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media