Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Benefits Work-Life Programs Georgia Tech recognizes the need for their employees to maintain work-life harmony which helps reduce stress and increases overall happiness. But, work-life harmony means something different to everyone. The right balance for you today can be different for you tomorrow and it will change again during various stages in your life. In conjunction with the USG's goal of providing a system wide culture and environment of well-being, Georgia Tech offers several resources, programs and services to help you achieve your optimal harmony. May is Mental Health Awareness Month Attend workshops, review available resources, and participate in activities to take healthy steps toward your wellness. Employee Assistance Program The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) offers counseling and work/life balance assistance to employees and their family members. Learn More Workplace Problem Solving The Georgia Tech Staff Ombuds Office provides consultations for all Georgia Tech staff members seeking workplace problem solving resources. The Ombuds follows the guiding principles of confidentiality, neutrality, informality and independence. Learn More Perks & Programs As a Georgia Tech employee you have access to discounts and incentives through Georgia Tech, USG and State of Georgia. Learn More Tuition Assistance Interested in continuing your education? Georgia Tech offers several educational assistance programs including tuition waivers and reimbursement. Learn More Flex Work Arrangements Flex work arrangements enable employees to serve customers, meet Institute and departmental goals, and balance personal and professional responsibilities. Learn More Bank at Work Bank at work with one of Georgia Tech's three banks providing discounts, premier services, and easy access to Georgia Tech employees. Learn More Summer Camp Resources Summer comes quickly! Don't wait to figure out what you're going to do with the kids. Let us help you find a camp that'll be just right. Learn More Childcare Georgia Tech offers a child care program for faculty, staff and graduate students. There are two on-campus centers managed by Bright Horizons Family Solutions. Learn More Lactation Centers The Institute has taken measures to ensure faculty, staff, and students have access to designated spaces conducive for nursing, breastfeeding, or expressing milk. Learn More Service Recognition Georgia Tech’s leadership understands that longevity is significant and appreciates the service given to the Tech community. The Institute recognizes employees who have served the Georgia Tech community for 10 years and 25 years with a special ceremony each year. Learn More Staff Awards The Staff Awards recognizes the great achievements of staff members who have contributed to the Georgia Tech community with their innovations, their leadership, and embodying Georgia Tech’s motto of "Progress and Service." Learn More Buzzin' Back to School The Buzzin' Back to School campaign is a school supply drive by Georgia Tech employees for Georgia Tech families! Learn More LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login