Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Workplace Learning & Professional Development Programs MentorTech MentorTech Find your next professional partnership. Now accepting mentor and mentee registrations. About Services Team Location Contact Learning Course Catalog Programs ASPIRE MentorTech New Employees Professional Development Circles People Leaders Resources Course Catalog Custom Training Campus Learning Directory Interruptions Podcast Additional Resources News from WLPD Georgia Tech’s MentorTech program is strategically designed to foster the professional development and career growth of Georgia Tech’s employees while building diverse networks across the Institute. Take the next step towards creating a professional partnership. Do you have a desire to empower others? Apply to be a Mentor. Do you desire to take ownership of your professional growth? Apply to be a Mentee. Registration is always open for the MentorTech program. To get started, create a mentorship profile for either or both roles (mentor and mentee). If you’re matched, we’ll email you the next steps. If a match is not available, you’ll stay in the system until a match becomes available. NOW ACCEPTING REGISTRATIONS Become a MentorBecome a MenteeRequest Information MentorTech-at-a-Glance Through one-on-one experiences, participants will establish a professional partnership with a colleague outside their own department, leading to elevated horizons, strengthened leadership skills, and insightful connections for life and career. Career Guidance Work-Life Transitions Technical Competency Career Sponsorship Become a Mentor Prospective mentors are experienced employees with at least two years of service to Georgia Tech and have the desire to foster a sense of empowerment within their mentee. Benefits of being a mentor include: Hands-on experience in leadership Communication and personal skills development Job and industry knowledge reinforcement Confidence and coaching enhancement Create Your Mentor Profile Become a Mentee Prospective mentees have at least one year of service to Georgia Tech and seek an opportunity to increase self-efficacy while using their mentor as a guide. Benefits of having a mentor include: Ownership and engagement in your personal and professional development Strategic introductions and networking opportunities Insights, connections, and resources to aid in your career path Create Your Mentee Profile My mentee is absolutely one of the best people I have ever met, and I can now also call her my friend. She has taught me to be objective, inquisitive, and compassionate regarding a cause. I hope I’ve helped her personally and professionally, but I know she’s helped me.” - Rochelle Barry Closeout Manager Office of Sponsored Programs HOW THE PROGRAM WORKS 1. Create a Mentorship Profile Interested mentees or mentors should create a mentorship profile through our MentorCliq system. Registration takes about three minutes to complete and can be completed at any time of the year. 2. Respond to Mentorship Request Based on your selected set of mentoring based competencies and a personality assessment, mentoring pairs are strategically matched to ensure a rich and transparent relationship. Successful pairings are notified via email. There is a possibility that you will not get matched. 3. Establish Mentee-Mentor Meetings Once a match is made, the mentorship pair will meet to determine individual and collective professional goals and to establish a regular cadence of check-in meetings. 4. Co-Create Your Experience As professional partners, you decide your time commitment. We recommend one hour per month but many commit more time. The mentoring relationship will last as long as the partners have a need and find value in the experience. Although my mentee had a longer tenure at Georgia Tech, we were able to mutually agree upon building and establishing a vulnerable and transparent relationship where we confided with each other. I was able to provide career guidance, interview preparation best practices, performance and conflict management coaching, effective communication skills, professional development opportunities, and tips to effectively cultivate and establish professional interpersonal relationships. - Will Jimerson Director of Human Resources Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Listen: The Interruptions Podcast - Mentor Relationships Mentorship relationships are a key component for navigating personal and professional challenges more seamlessly. In Episode 8 of the Interruptions podcast, LaTrese Ferguson, manager of Workplace Learning & Professional Development, discusses lessons from Georgia Tech’s mentoring program and two past participants share their own successful mentoring experience. Listen to the Podcast Episode Questions? Want to learn more about MentorTech? Having trouble submitting your mentorship profile? Unsure how being a mentor could be beneficial to your career? Request More Information Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology