Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Compensation Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Georgia Tech is committed to creating an unmatched workplace experience where all faculty and staff members can grow and thrive. Recognizing that compensation is an important component of the workforce experience, Georgia Tech initiated a review of our compensation programs to address our strategic goals focused on providing a rewarding employee work experience. The Institute is currently partnering with a consulting firm to assess how our existing compensation programs compare to market. This assessment includes a review of Georgia Tech’s compensation strategy, pay ranges, and job structure components. We want to be transparent that this project will not result in an immediate salary increase for each faculty and staff member. We are, however, using this project to drive future compensation program decisions focused on helping Georgia Tech retain, attract, and appropriately compensate the best and brightest faculty and staff. We are collaborating with key leaders and personnel across Georgia Tech to make sure the review’s approach reflects industry best practices and our unique academic and administrative workforce needs. As responsible stewards of the State of Georgia, our market review approach will also reflect our goal to maintain a compensation program that contributes to an exceptional work environment for all employees. Read below for further details on the project’s key focus areas. We invite you to check back regularly for project updates and progress to date. Glossary & FAQs Project Overview & Outcomes Philosophy & Policy Review Georgia Tech is reviewing and refining, where needed, the philosophy that defines our pay programs relative to workforce needs and the markets in which the Institute competes for talent. We are also reviewing of the effectiveness of select Georgia Tech pay policies. This includes reviewing policies focused on the frequency of market equity reviews and individual employee placement in salary ranges. Market Equity Assessment The equity assessment will provide a strategic starting point for determining where changes might be needed to Georgia Tech’s compensation program. This may include updates, where appropriate, to the structure used to adjust salaries based on market comparisons. Insights developed through the assessment will help Georgia Tech compete for talent in our relevant labor markets through a compensation program that complies with the administrative and regulatory framework of the USG. While each faculty and staff member at Georgia Tech is valued, not every employee will receive an increase through this market equity review. Though total years of service is valued by the Institute, only the employees years of experience in their current job can be used for this assessment. Staff equity adjustments were effective December 2021. Adjustments will be made through a phased approach, starting with the most disparate positions to market and priority areas with significant turnover. We also are working with academic units to develop a strong and collaborative approach that addresses faculty needs. We are targeting an early 2022 effective date for potential faculty adjustments. We appreciate your patience as we progress through the market equity review. The assessment is a high priority for academic and administrative leadership; all adjustments will be approached with careful consideration Job Structures & Pay Ranges All staff positions at Georgia Tech are part of the Job Classification and Compensation System (JCCS). View JCCS LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login