Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Benefits Benefits for Newly Hired and Eligible Benefits Your health and welfare benefits are provided through the University System of Georgia, which includes healthcare, dental, vision, and retirement plan options. Georgia Tech is a member of the USG, the state agency governing all 26 public institutions in Georgia. USG dictates general policy, administers benefits, and supplements funding for the state institutions. It is governed by the Board of Regents (BOR). Have questions? Submit a ticket to request at ServiceNow. Step 1. Review your resources As a Georgia Institution, Georgia Tech is one of the 26 schools under the University System of Georgia (USG) umbrella. Your health and welfare benefits are provided through USG, which includes healthcare, dental, vision, and retirement plan options for employees working 30 hours per week or more on a regular basis. All USG employees are covered by workers’ compensation, and certain employees also qualify for Social Security participation. Click here to learn more. Step 2. Check Your Credentials Ensure your Georgia Tech account has been given access. Check with your hiring manager if you have questions. Activate your account. Step 3. Make Your Selections with OneUSG Connect - Benefits OneUSG Connect is a USG system-wide technology management system. It includes two ways to access your benefits (including initial enrollment, life event updates, and Open Enrollment changes). To select online, log into the employee portal TechWorks and click the benefits icon: You will automatically be redirected to the OneUSG Connect – Benefits website. Save and submit your selections, including supporting documents and evidence of insurability (EOI) if necessary. To select over the phone, allow a representative to assist you in selecting your USG benefits over the phone: 1-844-5-USGBEN (1-844-587-4236). When will Your Benefits be Effective? The date of hire if hired on the first day of the month (e.g., July 1 or Aug. 1) The first day of the following month if the hire date is any day other than the first (e.g., July 2 or Aug. 13) Coverage Period Once you make your benefit elections, those elections will remain in effect from the coverage effective date through Dec. 31 of the current plan year unless you have a qualifying life event. If you do not experience a qualifying family status change, you must wait until the next Annual Enrollment period to make changes. LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login