Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Workplace Learning & Professional Development Programs ASPIRE ASPIRE Leadership is an action not a position About Services Team Location Contact Learning Course Catalog Programs ASPIRE MentorTech New Employees Professional Development Circles People Leaders Resources Course Catalog Custom Training Campus Learning Directory Interruptions Podcast Additional Resources News from WLPD Your mindset not only drives your attitudes, beliefs, and expectations but also serves as the foundation of who you are, how you make decisions, and how you interact with others. Research has found that those with a leadership mindset are more growth-oriented, resilient, and accountable – regardless of title or position. Designed around the Competing Values Framework of Organizations, developed by Quinn and Rohrbaugh, the ASPIRE learning experience seeks to develop and cultivate a leadership mindset within individual contributors. Combining instructor-led programming with self-directed and collaborative learning, the program creates the conditions for aspiring leaders to emerge with an increased awareness of themselves professionally and an understanding of how they can lead from their current role. ASPIRE APPLICATIONS ARE NOW CLOSED Submit Interest to Join a Future Cohort Convince ManagerView Program GuideSubmit InterestMeet 2022 Cohort How the Program Works No program cost* Six asynchronous online learning modules Six synchronous workshops with an assigned cohort 40-hour time commitment over four months *If a participant does not complete all requirements of the program, a fee of $750 will be charged to their department. Who Should Attend ASPIRE is designed for any full-time Georgia Tech employee who does not currently manage others but desires to gain the skills necessary to develop a leadership mindset. Eligible participants must commit to all the dates listed within the program guide and should be in good standing, with no disciplinary issues in the last six months. Participants must also have the full support of their supervisors. How You Will Benefit By participating in ASPIRE, you will be able to: Cultivate a leadership mindset. Better contribute to and uphold Georgia Tech's values. Understand how our actions impact others. Assess any need to correct the course of our actions. Participate in cross-campus collaborative learning. Understand the wider effectiveness of our actions. Engage with supervisor to implement key learnings. The Competing Leadership Approaches Framework Centered on four competing approaches to leadership, ASPIRE develops a people-leading mindset in non-managers. This model addresses the complexities faced as a leader while navigating the competing areas within an organization. Collaborate Compete Control Create I would recommend any leader interested in growing and building a strong team support their employee’s participation in the ASPIRE program. I appreciated that I was able to connect with each of my team members based on their weekly learning experience and utilize the talking points to identify ways to enhance their comprehension and in turn our team’s productivity. - Joi Alexander Director of Health Initiatives Want to receive more information about ASPIRE? Submit Interest Form Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology