Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home HR News Georgia Tech Human Resources Makes Temporary Move May 31, 2022 The move to 755 Marietta Street is effective June 6, 2022, and due to renovations taking place inside the human resources building. Flexwork Reminders for Summer May 31, 2022 As we embark upon the summer semester, with fewer students on campus, Georgia Tech’s senior leadership strongly encourages employees to utilize the available workplace flexibility and managers to foster innovative work arrangements that support employee wellness. What to Do When You Need Help May 30, 2022 May is Mental Health Awareness Month. During the month of May, Georgia Tech Human Resources is sharing resources to support well-being and mental health. Jackets Identify: Employees Encouraged to Participate in the 2022 Voluntary Self-Identification Campaign May 23, 2022 To get the most accurate picture of our diversity, we encourage all employees to participate in the 2022 Voluntary Employee Self-Identification Campaign, which will run through June 24. Recognizing When You Need Help With Your Mental Health May 23, 2022 May is Mental Health Awareness Month. During the month of May, Georgia Tech Human Resources is sharing resources to support well-being and mental health. What Plays a Role in Developing Mental Health Conditions? May 9, 2022 May is Mental Health Awareness Month. During the month of May, Georgia Tech Human Resources is sharing resources to support well-being and mental health. Starting to Think About Mental Health May 3, 2022 May is Mental Health Awareness Month. During the month of May, Georgia Tech Human Resources is sharing resources to support well-being and mental health. Tech Employees Honored for Service Milestones May 3, 2022 Georgia Tech officially honored the 356 individuals who met their 10- or 25-year service anniversary over this fiscal year at our Service Recognition Luncheon. It's Mental Health Awareness Month May 2, 2022 To support the Institute’s commitment to well-being, and in recognition of Mental Health Awareness this month, Georgia Tech Human Resources (GTHR) is providing resources that can support faculty, staff, and students with their mental health. It's Time for the Annual Buzzin’ Back to School Backpack Drive April 29, 2022 This year, GTHR has partnered with SchoolKitz.com to offer pre-packaged supply kits. This will streamline the donation process and make sure all backpacks are filled uniformly. The deadline to order supplies from SchoolKitz is Tuesday, June 7. Cost of Living Salary Adjustments Coming Soon March 21, 2022 In the wake of very challenging times for many in the campus community, there is good news to share. In April, eligible Georgia Tech employees will begin receiving a $5,000 Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) recently approved by Governor Brian Kemp and state legislators. Options Help Manage the Cost of Commuting March 15, 2022 Whether your commute to campus is five minutes or 55, high prices at the gas pump are affecting everyone, and the Georgia Tech community is no exception. Tuition Assistance Registration Period for Summer 2022 Closes April 15th March 14, 2022 Did you know eligible Georgia Tech employees can apply for tuition assistance? There are two programs available. Interested employees need to apply for each semester. The deadline for the Summer 2022 semester is April 15. Update: Additional Options for Covid-19 Home Tests February 23, 2022 We wanted to make you aware of some options available to obtain over-the-counter (OTC) Covid-19 tests at no or low cost to you. In addition to getting tests from the federal government, you can now obtain tests at low or no cost through your USG Healthcare plan. Staff Award Nominations End March 1 February 3, 2022 Do you work with an outstanding coworker or team member? Is there a new hire in your department who exhibits visionary leadership? Take the time to nominate them, or yourself, for a Staff Award. Anthem and Northside Hospital System Contract Negotiations Extends through April 15 February 1, 2022 Northside Hospital will continue to be in network for the USG Anthem healthcare plans through April 15, 2022. Northside Hospital and its doctors will be out of network beginning April 16, 2022, unless an agreement is reached. Georgia Tech Announces New Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer January 4, 2022 Skye Duckett has been named the new vice president and chief human resources officer after a nationwide search. Anthem and Northside Hospital System Contract Negotiations Continue December 2, 2021 If an agreement isn’t reached by Dec. 31, Northside Hospital System will be out of network for the USG Anthem plans – Consumer Choice HSA, Comprehensive Care and BlueChoice HMO – as of January 1, 2022. Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Underway November 30, 2021 The Institute has initiated a strategic review of Georgia Tech’s compensation programs to continue retaining, attracting, and appropriately compensating the best and brightest faculty and staff. The compensation review includes an assessment of Georgia Tech’s compensation philosophy, pay ranges, and job structure categories, along with a market equity study and raising the minimum wage on the Job Classification and Compensation System (JCCS) for the Institute. We Need Your Input to Help Cultivate Well-Being at Georgia Tech November 2, 2021 The Institute’s Strategic Planning Committee formed a Well-Being Council containing representation across student groups, colleges, units, and departments that also spans the entire Georgia Tech community of students, faculty, and staff. Tuition Assistance Registration Period for Spring 2022 Closes Nov. 15 October 28, 2021 Did you know eligible employees of Georgia Tech can apply for tuition assistance? There are two programs available. Interested employees need to apply for each semester. The Spring 2022 registration period ends Nov. 15. Benefits Open Enrollment Period Begins Oct. 25 October 21, 2021 Starting next week, benefits-eligible employees can make changes to benefits with Open Enrollment running from Monday, October 25 through Friday, November 5. Maximize Your Well-being Credit by Getting a Covid-19 Vaccine August 31, 2021 It’s a priority for all University System of Georgia employees to get a COVID-19 vaccine. To encourage vaccination, USG is offering an increased Well-being credit to all employees and their eligible spouses who get vaccinated. Georgia Tech Human Resources Hosts Annual Student Hiring Event August 11, 2021 Georgia Tech Human Resources (GTHR) will host its annual in-person student hiring event August 18-20 in Clough Undergraduate Learning Commons (CULC). The Student Employee Onboarding event (formerly known as GradHiring) is open to all student types and designed to assist new student employees with the final steps in the hiring process. Buzzin’ Back to School Supply Drive Adds Amazon Wish List July 2, 2021 The Georgia Tech community can still get involved in the annual school supply drive through Amazon Wish List, and store bought donations. Get Involved in the Buzzin’ Back to School Backpack Drive June 15, 2021 This year, GTHR has partnered with SchoolKitz.com to offer pre-packaged supply kits. This will streamline the donation process and make sure all backpacks are filled uniformly. The deadline to order supplies from SchoolKitz is Tuesday, June 29. Employee Assistance Program Launches New Site June 14, 2021 USG and Kepro are excited to announce a new, customizable Employee Assistance Program (EAP) website — USG MyLifeExpert. Employees Receive Emails About Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield Class Action Settlement June 9, 2021 An email related to an Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield class action settlement was sent to several University System of Georgia employees. The email indicates employees may be eligible for a claim. The email is legitimate, however, Anthem is not determining eligibility or issuing notices. The settlement is being handled by a third-party administrator. Values-Based Learning is Here! April 16, 2021 WLPD is launching the 2021 Learning Resource Guide and it's themed to correspond with our values. As you browse the catalog, you will find a robust suite of learning and development opportunities that are categorized to fall under each of our nine organizational values. Georgia Tech Human Resources Offers Training for Values-Based Goal Setting April 12, 2021 Georgia Tech Human Resources has developed a values-based goal setting template that reinforces the connection of our behaviors to our Institute’s values. To ensure employees are aware of the changes to the template and comfortable crafting their goals for 2021, Georgia Tech Human Resources (GTHR) invites staff members to participate in a virtual training session on Thursday, April 22 The Future of Work at Georgia Tech March 23, 2021 While the Institute is planning to restore normal occupancy in residence halls, classrooms, and laboratories, many employees are asking what "normal" means for employee offices, cubicles, and other workspaces. What is the new normal for employees? Improving Georgia Tech's Student Hiring Process March 19, 2021 Georgia Tech Human Resources (GTHR) continues improvement work to demonstrate that students are indeed our top priority. Student employees comprise more than half of Georgia Tech’s total workforce, so it is critical they experience the most seamless hiring process we can possibly provide. Encouraging Support & Well-Being for All Employees March 8, 2021 As we near one year of working amidst the pandemic, it’s important we recognize that many employees continue to feel fatigued and emotionally stressed. In addition to encouraging our employees to take time for themselves, focus on their well-being, and maintain boundaries, it's also a great opportunity to remind everyone of the tools and support mechanisms Georgia Tech Human Resources provides for all employees. Georgia Tech Introduces Values-Based Goal Setting February 11, 2021 The new template includes details on the difference between expectations and goals, examples of creating values-based S.M.A.R.T. (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Time-based) goals, and the responsibilities of both employee and supervisor in the process. Introducing New Health Programs through Livongo for 2021 January 7, 2021 Livongo is a holistic program that empowers people with health challenges to live better and do more. Civil Discourse in the Workplace November 2, 2020 As a dynamic and diverse institution, we respect various perspectives and opinions. As employees within the University System of Georgia (USG), we are held to the highest ethical and professional standards of conduct within the workplace. Under Section 8.2.18 of the USG Personnel Conduct, specifically the Ethics Policy, employees are required to be responsible for their individual actions. Flexible Options for Employees to Vote October 21, 2020 The University System of Georgia (USG) and Georgia Tech leadership encourage all employees to exercise their civic responsibilities, including their right to vote in upcoming elections. ASPIRE Program Now Accepting Applications August 10, 2020 The program helps participants cultivate a leadership mindset and learn to lead from where they are by participating in a series of activities including workshops and discussions with members of campus leadership. MentorTech Thrives in Virtual Environment August 4, 2020 The six-month program traditionally kicks off in February and concludes in August. This year’s program, like so many others, was forced to shift its format due to social distancing restrictions caused by Covid-19. In-person meetups transitioned to e-mentoring. “A national pandemic couldn’t stop the mentoring partnerships. We pivoted and leveraged technology to keep the conversations going,” said Yvette Francis, program manager. New Paid Leave Provisions under the Families First Coronavirus Response Act April 10, 2020 The Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) was recently passed and signed into law. This new legislation offers emergency paid sick leave and an expansion of Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) coverage for eligible employees effective April 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020. Free COVID-19 Virtual Screenings for USG employees March 27, 2020 All University System of Georgia (USG) employees are now eligible for free COVID-19 virtual screenings through Augusta University Health System’s AU Health Express Care app. Screenings are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, at no cost and no appointment required. Georgia Tech Non-Closure Emergency Leave Procedures March 26, 2020 The USG issued Non-Closure Emergency Leave Procedures giving USG presidents the authority to allow Leave with Pay in situations where the institution remains open but with reduced operations during an emergency. COVID-19 and USG Healthcare Plan and Other Benefit Resources March 19, 2020 The USG Human Resources office wants to make sure employees understand the benefits and resources available related to COVID-19. Please keep in mind, guidance is changing rapidly as the situation evolves. Additional information and updates will be posted on the USG Human resources website at https://www.usg.edu/hr/benefits/coronavirus as they are received. As the situation related to COVID-19 evolves, we want to make sure you are aware of the important benefits and resources available to you through the USG Benefits programs. OneUSG Connect Training Begins in Early March February 17, 2020 Employees will be offered training based on their specific job functions. To maximize time efficiency and ensure that employees are trained in critical areas, some courses will be required and others will be strongly recommended based on their future use of the system. Employees will be able to complete most required courses as either part of an instructor-led training (in-person or webinar) or through self-paced, web-based trainings, depending on preference and learning style. Staff Awards 2020 - Nomination Period Open February 1, 2020 Each year, Georgia Tech asks employees to nominate co-workers and team members who demonstrate excellence in their work and attitude. 2019 W-2s Now Available January 31, 2020 Employees are now able to review and download their 2019 W-2 Wage and Tax Statements from TechWorks. MentorTech Returns for 2020 January 6, 2020 MentorTech Professional Partnerships is back by popular demand, returning for a third cohort beginning in February. Employees Can Donate Sick Leave November 7, 2019 Under the University System of Georgia’s Shared Sick Leave Program, Tech employees who are experiencing any condition under the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) may tap into a pool of donated sick leave. Preparing for Excellence in Human Resources October 16, 2019 This collaborative effort, Excellence in Human Resources, addresses recommendations presented in the University System of Georgia (USG)’s Comprehensive Administrative Review (CAR) and will support Georgia Tech’s implementation of the OneUSG Connect human capital management (HCM) initiative when it goes live in Spring 2020. Benefits Open Enrollment Period Begins Oct. 28 October 10, 2019 The opportunity to make changes begins in just a few weeks with Open Enrollment running from Monday, October 28 through Friday, November 8. It is important to know this is an active open enrollment which requires action. You must make benefit elections in order to have coverage in 2020. Next LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login