Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Employment Resources for Employees Performance Management Georgia Tech strives to provide an environment where all employees understand the impact their contributions have on the achievement of Institute goals and are provided the opportunity for ongoing professional growth. We reinforce this belief through strong performance management that culminates in a review of annual performance. The Georgia Tech Performance Management Cycle consists of four phases: Plan, Manage, Review, and Reward. Support tools are available for each phase of the cycle. Self-Assessments Ensure your voice is heard! Assessments are due by January 21, 2022. This is your chance to assess big projects, discuss accomplishments and highlight your value. They are due to your manager or Employee Records by Jan. 21, 2022. Self-Assessment Form Use this form to provide to your manager to facilitate more constructive feedback and discussion around individual performance and departmental goals as well as next steps in career development Timeline The Georgia Tech performance cycle is aligned with the calendar year. All classified staff employees should have a recent review reflecting the prior year's performance before May. 2021 Performance Cycle Jan. 1 — Dec. 31, 2021 List of employees required to have evaluation conducted will be sent to HRBP/HR Directors Dec. 13, 2021 2021 Self Assessments Dec. 13, 2021 – Jan. 21, 2022 2022 Goal Setting Period 2021 Performance Evaluation Jan. 4, 2022 – Feb. 11, 2022 Feb. 1, 2022 - March 31, 2022 Signed performance appraisal records due to department HR Business Partner/Representative April 1, 2022 Evaluation Rating Spreadsheet due to GTHR Employee Relations. May 2, 2022 Planning The planning phase is the foundation of the entire process. In this phase, S.M.A.R.T goals and objectives are set for the performance period. Goals that are S.M.A.R.T (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Time Based) increase employee motivation and commitment to goal attainment, leading to greater success. Quick Reference Guide Goal Setting Form Managing Regular communication is critical during the managing phase of the cycle. Through formal and informal conversations, both parties are kept abreast of progress toward the successful completion of goals and expectations. These discussions are also good opportunities to provide timely feedback and coaching. Since the performance cycle spans several months, it is important to keep track of key performance highlights and challenges. These notes will help immensely when it’s time to discuss performance for the year. Review At the conclusion of the cycle, both parties have a discussion to review performance for the year. If S.M.A.R.T goals have been set (planning phase) and ongoing communication/feedback has taken place (managing phase), both parties should have a productive performance review discussion. The Annual Evaluation Form is available on the Forms page, under "Performance". Go to Annual Evaluation Form Reward When merit increases are available, employees may receive an increase to their annual base pay in accordance with their overall performance rating. It is important to remember that performance increases should be based upon merit. Rewards should be differentiated based upon overall performance ratings. Forms Annual Evaluation Form (Performance Appraisal Record) Goal Setting Form (Values-Based Goal Setting) Review for Probationary Period Form Use this form to evaluate employees at the conclusion of their first six months of employment. Self-Assessment Form Use this form to provide to your manager to facilitate more constructive feedback and discussion around individual performance and departmental goals as well as next steps in career development Tools One-on-One Performance Coaching Guide This guide provides managers and their direct reports examples of discussion questions for better understanding around job performance and employee performance concerns. Performance Improvement Plan and Guidelines Refer to these documents for assistance in correcting performance challenges associated with the skills and expertise of an employee. Sample Narrative This may be used as a substitute or in tandem with the annual evaluation form. Values-Based S.M.A.R.T. Goals - Additional Examples Employees may refer to this resource to see additional examples of how to connect Georgia Tech's values to their goals Performance Management FAQs Managing and Evaluating Performance Guide Faculty Annual Evaluations FAQs Training Please click on an item below for more information and to sign up for training. For Managers: Setting Team and Employee Goals Performance Management: Setting Goals and Managing Performance Virtual Performance Reviews and Feedback Improving Employee Performance For Employees: How to Write SMART Goals and Objectives Values-Based Goal Setting Training PowerPoint Recorded Session For Everyone: Giving and Receiving Feedback Coaching Conversations Confrontation Conversations Managing Your Performance the Georgia Tech Way Management Best Practices Keep notes in a journal or other system (e.g., tickler file) to record significant performance occurrences during the year Let employees know that you wish to regularly communicate throughout the year (both formally and informally) and demonstrate that commitment by being proactive and engaged when interacting Monitor progress on goals and be open to adjusting goals if circumstances warrant Schedule one-on-one meetings with employees at least monthly to formally discuss performance Conduct a mid-year performance evaluation Performance Evaluation Best Practices Schedule a dedicated time for each employee to be evaluated Review notes and other documentation you have compiled throughout the year concerning the employee’s performance Have the employee complete a self-evaluation and review it prior to preparing the final review Provide the employee with a draft copy of the completed performance review prior to the actual meeting to administer the review Ensure constructive two-way communication during the review meeting (listening attentively and encouraging dialogue) Schedule a performance planning meeting within 30 days after the evaluation to collectively establish key performance measures and goals for the upcoming performance review cycle LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login