Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Benefits Open Enrollment: Oct. 25 – Nov. 5 Open Enrollment: October 25 – November 5, 2021 USG benefits are centered around you to help you balance your health, work, and financial well-being goals. Choose from an array of benefits and programs for 2022. Attend the system-wide Virtual Benefits Fair, review your options, and enroll by November 5. Now is the time to start exploring and creating an experience Centered on You! This is an active enrollment year! Which means you are required to take action if you want healthcare coverage for 2022. Visit the USG Benefits Website to learn more. Be sure to complete your certifications to avoid tobacco, and working spouse surcharges! Shared Sick Leave Program Did you know employees may voluntarily donate unused sick leave to the Georgia Tech Shared Leave Pool? Open Enrollment, October 25 through November 5, is your opportunity to make a donation to the Share Sick Leave Pool for calendar year 2022. For more information about eligibility and how the program works, visit hr.gatech.edu/shared-sick-leave. If you wish to join the shared sick leave pool, you must meet the following criteria to be eligible: Completion of your provisional employment period First time participants must donate a minimum of 8 hours sick leave during open enrollment (October 25 – November 5) AND Have a minimum 48 hours remaining in your sick leave balance on January 1, 2022, in order to maintain the required 40-hour sick leave balance after your donation is processed in January. Already a member? If you are already a member of the Shared Sick Leave pool this is a reminder that although you are not required to donate additional sick leave to remain in the pool, you may donate up to 80 sick leave hours during the upcoming open enrollment period and retain a minimum of 48-hour sick leave balance on January 1, 2022. If you plan on retiring next year, now is the time to donate the sick leave you will not use, as you are not able to at the time of retirement, only during open enrollment. For more information about this program, visit the USG Shared Sick Leave Program policy. If you have questions please contact GTHR Benefits at (404) 385-2377. Upcoming Open Enrollment Events Include" the USG Virtual Benefits Fair. USG Virtual Benefits Fair Learn More USG will hold a virtual system-wide benefits fair from October 25 – October 29. Join live presentations, chat with vendors and get benefits enrollment and sign up for raffles. Registration for the fair and specific live events are available on the Virtual Benefits Fair website. Georgia Tech Virtual OE Info Sessions In addition to the USG virtual benefits fair, Georgia Tech Human Resources (GTHR) will host virtual information sessions. Wednesday, October 27 | 2 to 3 p.m. Tuesday, November 2 | 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. Thursday, November 4 | 1 to 2 p.m. GTHR Contact Information We are here to help. If you have questions, please contact GTHR Benefits team at 404-894-4847 or visit ServiceNow. To make an appointment with a GTHR Benefits Counselor, click here. Open Enrollment Resources Board of Regents August Board Meeting Premiums Announcement Memo 2022 Comparison Guide for plans and prices 2022 Open Enrollment Newsletter - Coming Soon! 2022 USG Open Enrollment Presentation LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login