Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Benefits ACA GRA Health Insurance Option The GRA Healthcare Plan Option is a medical plan offered by the University System of Georgia. This option is in addition to the Student Health Insurance Plan coverage option offered through the Institute. Graduate Research Assistants should carefully consider all the types of coverage available to them before enrolling in coverage. The GRA Healthcare Plan Option does not meet the federal guidelines for international students holding F-1 or J-1 visas. GT Stamps Health Services recommends GRAs enroll in the Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) administered through United Healthcare. It is a more robust plan offered at a subsidized rate for GRA’s and charged through your student account. Before enrolling in the GRA Healthcare Plan, please consider scheduling a (virtual) appointment with a GTHR Benefits Specialist who can answer questions that you might have about the plan. Plan Information For a summary of the services provided under the plan, please review the GRA Summary of Plan Benefits. Enrollment GRA’s will be sent information about the plan from the OneUSG Connect-Benefits Center after their hire information is processed. Please remember that this plan is offered in addition to other plans that are available to you. Enrollment is voluntary and you will not be enrolled in the GRA Healthcare Plan unless you elect to enroll by phone or through the OneUSG Connect - Benefits website. If you enroll in the GRA Healthcare Plan the monthly premium cost will be deducted from your pay each pay period. Enrollment in the GRA Healthcare Plan is voluntary. Upon enrollment, participants will receive an Anthem ID card with both the medical and pharmacy plan coverage verification information. Coverage Period The annual enrollment period for the GRA Healthcare Option is in January of each year. You will automatically be sent information about the GRA Healthcare Plan during that time. Enrollment under this plan is on a calendar year basis. Coverage will continue through the calendar year unless the Graduate Research Assistant becomes ineligible for the coverage (i.e., graduates or moves into another position) or experiences a qualifying life event. The GRA plan coverage continues to the last day of the month in which your GRA position ends and at that time you will be offered the option to enroll in COBRA coverage. Quick View Comparison Chart Student Health Insurance Plan GRA Employer Sponsored Plan Insurance accepted at Stamps Health Services YES NO In-network and Out-of-network coverage YES YES but higher deductibles adn out-of-pocket maximums Cash out of your pocket before the insurance plan pays for any services. $0 - Stamps Health Services $250 in-network $300 out-of-network $3,000 in-network $6,000 out-of-network Spousal Benefit YES NO Co-insurance (lower is better) 20% in-network 40% out-of-network 50% in-network 50% out-of-network Routine Doctor Visit $25 co-pay in-network 50% in-network Dental Benefit YES NO Deductible for prescriptions NO YES Vision Benefit YES NO Monthly Premium - (the cost you pay. The SHIP is paid per semester but annualized for illustration purposes in order ot compare to the GRA plan.) $182.78 (without GRA subsidy) $54.83 (with GRA subsidy) $102 LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login