Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Employment Resources for Employees Hiring Talent Acquiring the right talent at the right time is critical to the success of any organization, and Georgia Tech is no exception. The process by which to identify, attract, and hire talent can be complex yet must be strategic. The recruitment team at Georgia Tech can provide you with the best options to onboard top talent for your department. Resources are available for managers to understand the employee's entire employment cycle to include recruitment of talent. Georgia Tech offers extraordinary opportunities for extraordinary individuals who wish to make a difference at a university whose vision is to be an international technological leader. See below for how to hire or work with individuals. Contact Us Have a careers-related question? We can help! Go to ServiceNow to submit your inquiry. Proceed to ServiceNow Need Assistance? Call 404.894.GTHR (4847) Visit ServiceNow Background Checks Need a background check? Learn about background screening here or the process here. Note, positions managing a P-Card must undergo a credit check — request one with this Background Request Form. Hiring Staff Learn More Georgia Tech Human Resources' Talent Acquisition team is responsible for hiring staff on campus. Your assigned Talent Consultant will facilitate the process from start to finish. Hiring Faculty Learn More The Office of Faculty Affairs is responsible for the approval process of all academic and research faculty hiring. This includes both tenure- and non-tenure track faculty members. Hiring Students Learn More Students enrolled at University System of Georgia (USG) schools are hired as student employees. Georgia Tech Human Resources' Student Employment team provides guidance and resources for students and hiring departments. Hiring Temporary Staff Learn More Tech Temps are individuals temporarily employed by the Institute between six to 12 calendar months. Hiring Retirees Learn More A retiree of the University System of Georgia (USG), which Georgia Tech is apart, may return to work within the USG under certain parameters. Working with Affiliates Learn More Affiliates are guests of Georgia Tech or members of an affiliated organization participating in activities that support our Institute's mission and require access to our internal IT systems. Hiring Remotely Learn More A remote employee is a new hire or rehire who is employed by the Georgia Institute of Technology and resides outside of the Atlanta Metro Area. LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login