Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Compensation Staff Job Descriptions and Salary Structures All staff positions at Georgia Tech are a part of the Job Classification and Compensation System (JCCS). All positions include a structure, title, pay range and quartile, and pay grade. Job structures: Grouping of job grades with similar characteristics. Titles: Should reflect the purpose and level of the role. Learn more HERE. Ranges & Quartiles: Reflect the minimum and maximum pay. Pay Grades: Ways to group jobs with similar external market value. Job Descriptions: Provide the purpose for the job’s existence, an example of the level of work found in the role, qualifications, skills required, etc. Detailed, individualized job expectations and tasks, are set at the manager level and are a part of the goal setting process. For faculty compensation information, please consult with your department HR representative. Contact the Office of Faculty Affairs for additional information. JCCS View the job descriptions You will be asked for your GT username and password. View JCCS jobs and pay grades. Click to see the updated online database. You can search for positions by hitting "CTRL + F" Staff Job Structure Categories There are five structure categories: Administrative Positions responsible for the support, coordination, and management of academics & administration. Professions include Finance, Human Resources, Administrative Management, Legal Affairs, Academic & Student Services, and Communications. Crafts & Skilled Trades Positions responsible for the installation, maintenance, repair, and management of structures, grounds, utilities, and related components. Included are positions related to inventory management, warehousing, and mail/delivery. Professions include Carpentry, Custodial Services, Landscaping, Construction, Instrumentation, Recycling, and Mail Distribution. Development Positions responsible for the administration, management, solicitation, and development of fundraising, sales, and business growth. Professions include Development, Sales Management, Consulting, and Venture Catalyst Initiatives. Information Technology Positions responsible for the design, configuration, engineering, installation, maintenance, repair, support, and management of computers, computer based systems, applications, hardware, networks, information, and components. Professions include Software Development, Information Security, Graphic Design, Network Administration, and Technical Support. Science & Research Support Positions responsible for the support, management, and research of science and engineering disciplines. Professions include Medicine, Dentistry, Engineering, Laboratory Management, Safety, and Architecture. Staff Job Pay Ranges & Quartiles Each job grade has a corresponding range of pay based on market pay practices and an employee’s development in a job. Each range has quartiles. Individual job performance and job knowledge, as well as the Institute’s financial position, determine the employee’s position in the quartile. In accordance with Georgia Tech and USG policy employees must be paid at the minimum of the grade range, and not the minimum of the quartile. The minimum of the quartile is not guaranteed and subject to other factors, including budget. Click to View Staff Salary Structure Quartile Chart Quartile 1: 0 to 2 years of experience in the job for employees who are novice in the position, are in a learning situation, and do not have substantial experience in the new position. Quartile 2: 2 to 5 years of experience in the job or employees who have gained experience and skill and who are becoming more proficient in the position for which they were hired. They generally meet expectations in their positions Midpoint The midpoint usually represents the average pay for a position that a fully experienced employee might be paid at this level. Quartile 3: 5 to 10 years of experience in the job for experienced employees who frequently exceed expectations. Quartile 4: 10+ years of experience in the job for employees who have extensive experience and who are consistently exceptional performers. Market Reference Point Each Market Reference Point (MRP) is created by Georgia Tech to reflect the average salary of the same or similar position outside of the Institute. Once set, it becomes the building block of the pay range as well as the midpoint. Learn more from the Policy Salary Structures FAQs What is a Salary Structure? A salary structure is the structure of salary grades and ranges within an organization. Georgia Tech uses five staff structures; Administrative, Crafts & Skilled Trades, Development, Information Technology, and Science & Research Support. Why would ranges move? Georgia Tech Human Resources (GTHR) reviews external market competitiveness of our salary ranges. As the general economy changes, ranges are adjusted to stay competitive in our labor market. Where can I see the current salary grade range structure? Click here How do I find out what grade a position/job title is in? This information is available to anyone with a Georgia Tech login. Check the blue box at the top of this page that says "JCCS." LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login