Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Workplace Learning & Professional Development Programs New Employees The New Employee Experience Welcome to Tech, we're so glad you're here! About Services Team Location Contact Learning Course Catalog Programs ASPIRE MentorTech New Employees Professional Development Circles People Leaders Resources Course Catalog Custom Training Campus Learning Directory Interruptions Podcast Additional Resources News from WLPD As a new employee, you are joining a community of diverse, talented, and passionate people with a personal connection to Georgia Tech's mission, vision, and values. As such, we think onboarding as a new employee is a continuous process of engagement and learning. The New Employee Experience (NEE) is a six-month program designed to help accelerate your productivity as a new hire. Featuring a series of four learning experiences, the program is purposefully curated with key resources and takeaways to make your first days — and months — of employment impactful, informative, and fun. In fact, 94% of new employees who completed the NEE series used the skills they learned to help complete their first six months of employment. Additionally, 84% indicate that participation in the program allowed them to become a productive part of their team more quickly. Your Pathway to Success as a New Employee First 15-30 Days "Welcome to Tech" Orientation As the first of many fun-filled interactions included in the New Employee Experience, "Welcome to Tech" is your initial introduction to Georgia Tech's mission, vision, and values, as well as exciting history and traditions. Enrollment: New employees are extended a personal invitation to attend by email, after communication with their managers. If you have not received your invitation, please contact us. Format: Both in-person and virtual formats are available. For offerings held in-person, you will be provided a specific campus location upon registration. Duration: 7 hours Time: 8 a.m. - 3 p.m. (ET) Frequency: Biweekly on Wednesdays First 2-3 Months Georgia Tech Leaders PanelAs the second session of the New Employee Experience, you'll receive an opportunity to meet key institute decision-makers from all over campus. The informal Q&A format provides a casual setting for you to meet experienced leaders who will share their own journey at Georgia Tech and what helped them navigate their careers here. There will also be some time to seek answers to your questions through the benefit of your fresh perspective. By the end of the panel discussion, you'll have a deeper understanding of Tech's culture, processes, resources, and community. Enrollment: New employees are extended a personal invitation to attend by email. If you have not received your invitation, please contact us. Format: Both in-person and virtual formats are available. Duration: 1 hour Time: 10:30-11:30 a.m. (ET) Frequency: Quarterly (dates and day of the week varies) First 3 Months Managing Your Performance the Georgia Tech Way As the third session of the New Employee Experience, you will be introduced to the foundation of Georgia Tech’s Performance Management approach, including interactive activities to hone your skills and deepen your connection with your peers. Topics include the link between engagement and satisfaction, the unexpected dangers of a comfort zone, and the three ingredients you can use today to create a more productive working relationship with your manager. Enrollment: Self-enroll through our Employee Learning Portal Format: Both in-person and virtual formats are available. Duration: 1 hour Time: Varies Frequency: Monthly (dates and day of the week varies) First 6 Months Seizing Your Career the Georgia Tech Way As the last session of the New Employee Experience, you will be prepared to seize control of your career by mastering the four core attributes of professional success and satisfaction: Self-awareness, Perception, Fundamental Skills, and Specialty Skills. The session uses discussion and storytelling to heighten your understanding of all four attributes and features a number of engaging activities to help hone specific strengths in each area. Enrollment: Self-enroll through our Employee Learning Portal Format: Both in-person and virtual formats are available. Duration: 1.5 hours Time: Varies Frequency: Monthly (dates and day of the week varies) More Who Should Attend While the New Employee Experience was designed and created for new employees, all Georgia Tech employees — regardless of years of service — are invited to attend the Managing Your Performance the Georgia Tech Way and Seizing Your Career the Georgia Tech Way sessions. New employees who have completed all four sessions of The New Employee Experience will receive a gold Campanile lapel pin, a stylized tribute to the Tech Tower, designed specifically for this program. Newly Hired People Leaders As a part of the new employee experience, newly hired people leaders will be provided with additional resources and invited to attend learning sessions to participate in throughout their first 90 days. These resources are designed to equip newly hired leaders with establishing a foundational mindset and provide skillsets for leading others. The resources can be found on the new employee checklist for newly hired people leaders. Download the Newly Hired People Leaders Checklist "I enjoyed the collaborative interaction between everyone. I was able to meet new people and find out a lot of things about Georgia Tech that I didn’t know." Welcome to Tech! "Really inspiring! Thank you to all the panelists who took the time out of their busy schedules to share their employment experience, amusing stories, and inspirational guidance on how to do your best at Georgia Tech." Leaders Panel "The best training class I have taken at Georgia Tech. The instructor was specific, clear, and fun." Managing Performance "This session was so well done! The content was relevant regardless of your position or level. I really appreciate that Georgia Tech makes it clear that they want you to succeed and develop – and shows you the path to those results." Seizing Your Career Find Your Next Learning Opportunity Learning is a never-ending process. As you continue to develop, mature, and gain greater confidence in your new role, we encourage you to keep yourself updated with new skills and knowledge to remain professionally successful throughout your career at Georgia Tech. Learn Now Helpful Resources for New Employees New Employee Onboarding We share our advice for navigating the first few days and months of your new employee experience. Learn More Georgia Tech's Performance Management Approach Facilitate more constructive feedback and discussion around individual performance as well as next steps in career development. Learn More Georgia Tech’s Mission, Vision, and Values Learn how Georgia Tech plans to be an example of inclusive innovation over the next decade. Learn More Questions? Want more info about the New Employee Experience? Need help registering for a session? Looking for additional resources as a new employee? Contact Us Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology