Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Career Paths Georgia Tech offers academic and research faculty positions and administrative staff positions. These career paths can lead to professional growth and personal satisfaction while working with others who excel in their disciplines. Staff Positions Georgia Tech offers careers for staff positions throughout the campus, located in administrative units and in the colleges and schools. Positions are available in the following areas: Finance, Administrative, Managerial, Engineering, Technical, Labor/Skilled, and Medical. Temporary positions are also available. View Staff Opportunities View Temporary Staff Opportunities Contact Us Have a careers-related question? We can help! Go to ServiceNow to submit your inquiry. Proceed to ServiceNow Research Faculty Research positions are available in the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) and in various colleges and schools. GTRI hires, equips, and supports the best researchers in the most recognized fields of science and technology. To view current GTRI opportunities, visit the GTRI website or the GT Careers portal. View Research Opportunities at GT Careers portal Go to GTRI Jobs page Additional GT research opportunities are available by accessing the Board of Regents Applicant Clearinghouse. Go to Board of Regents Applicant Clearinghouse Academic Faculty With a prestigious faculty holding one-hundred endowed chairs and professorships, as well as a staff of more than 4,500 to support all aspects of the campus, it's no wonder that Georgia Tech ranks number seven in the nation for best public universities according to U.S. News & World Report. Georgia Tech boasts 835 faculty members with 708 of those positions being full-time teaching faculty. Nearly 64 percent are tenured faculty, and 94 percent of Tech faculty hold doctoral degrees in their fields of expertise. Current faculty opportunities may be found by visiting the websites of each college or school. Colleges and Schools College of Design College of Computing College of Engineering Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Sciences Other Opportunities University System of Georgia Jobs LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login