Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Jackets Identify: Employees Encouraged to Participate in the 2022 Voluntary Self-Identification Campaign May 23, 2022 | Atlanta, GA Georgia Tech invites all employees to voluntarily provide their demographic information to help the Institute fulfill its mission and commitment to achieving a diverse and inclusive workplace. Georgia Tech is dedicated to providing equal employment opportunities for all qualified individuals. As an Institute, not only do we thrive on diversity, but we also nurture the well-being of our community. To get the most accurate picture of our diversity, we encourage all employees to participate in the 2022 Voluntary Employee Self-Identification Campaign, which will run through June 24. “This information helps us gain a better understanding of the makeup of our Georgia Tech community," said Skye Duckett, Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. "With this knowledge we can be more informed and inspired to meet the needs of our staff, said Duckett.” Employees may log in to OneUSG Connect to share or update their race, ethnicity, disability, and veteran status. These demographic details remain confidential, and help the Institute measure employment progress and fulfill federal requirements. Georgia Tech Human Resources (GTHR) and the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion are responsible for preparing Georgia Tech’s Affirmative Action Plans annually. As a federal contracting organization, Georgia Tech must comply with reporting requirements established by the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs. Who Is Encouraged to Self-Identify? All employees are encouraged to self-identify. Temporary employees, affiliates, and student employees do not need to participate in this campaign. Why Self-Identification Is Important Self-identification produces data needed to accurately measure employment progress. Also, the federal government has issued regulations requiring federal contractors to practice equal employment opportunity and affirmative action for women, ethnic and racial minorities, individuals with disabilities, and protected veterans. As a federal contractor, Georgia Tech is required to reach out periodically to all employees and give them the opportunity to self-identify. Self-Identification Creates Better Inclusion We encourage you to participate in the Employee Voluntary Self-Identification Campaign to assist us with learning more about our workforce as well as facilitate better inclusion and belonging. How to Self-Identify Self-identifying is quick, voluntary, and confidential. You can update or verify your race, ethnicity, disability, and protected veteran status in the Employee Self Service site within OneUSG Connect. Follow these quick steps to self-identify: Step 1: Log in to Employee Self Service Step 2: Click the “Personal Details” tile Step 3: Self-Identify by clicking the following links on the left: Click “Ethnic Groups” to update or verify race and ethnicity and then click “Save.” Click “Disability” to update or verify disability status; check the box, if applicable, and then click “Submit.” Click “Veteran Status” to update or verify veteran status; check the appropriate box, if applicable, and then click “Submit.” Your privacy is important to us. Self-identification information is not reported to managers, other employees, or at the individual level and remains confidential and not connected to an individual’s employment record. This information will never be used for any type of employment action toward an individual. Learn more, and see the Frequently Asked Questions, on the Self-Identify webpage. Related Media Click on image(s) to view larger version(s) Jackets Identify Campaign 2 Related Links Jackets Identify Webpage How to Self-Identify Video How to Self-Identify Infographic LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login