Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Global Affiliates Affiliate is an official Georgia Tech status granted by host departments to guests of the Institute or members of an affiliated organization. Affiliates must be participating in activities that support our Institute’s mission and require access to our campus facilities and/or our internal information technology systems. Affiliates are not paid on Georgia Tech payroll but are added to the Institute’s OneUSG Connect database. There is no generic affiliate job code. Instead, there are six distinct types of affiliates: Business Partners/Contractors Georgia Tech Entities and Affiliated Organizations Instruction/Counseling Short-term Research/Access (less than 6 months) Long-term Research/Collaboration Former Paid Employees – no longer on campus For job codes, definitions, examples, term lengths, and requirements for each type of affiliate, please review the Affiliate Categories chart. View Affiliate Categories Chart Note: Postdoctoral Scholars with external award funding (fellowships and training grants from U.S. federal or private agencies) are no longer in job code 995XA7; instead use 918BOO. Use of this code requires review/approval by Research Faculty Affairs. Review Postdoctoral Appointment policy here. Process to Add an Affiliate The hosting Georgia Tech department must offer and initiate Affiliate status. The Direct Hire Form is used to begin the OneUSG process to add a new Affiliate. (There are no longer any PSFs or paper documents associated with adding an Affiliate.) All affiliates must have a Georgia Tech employee supervisor/host and a defined term length. New affiliates will be emailed links to, and must complete, an electronic Affiliate Onboarding Packet. Detailed information about adding Affiliate transactions is available in pages five and six of the Action Reason User Guide, found here. Process to Renew or Complete an Affiliate Assignment A Manager Self Service (MSS) fluid form is used to renew (reactivate affiliation or extend the end date) or complete (terminate before the originally requested end date) an Affiliate instance. Access to the “Affiliate Compete or Renew” form, is from the MSS landing page; select the “My Forms” tile, and click “Fill out a new form”. Detailed information about renewing or completing an Affiliate assignment is available in pages seven thru nine of the Action Reason User Guide, found here. Please note: if the renewal requires an updated background check, the screening should be completed before the Affiliate assignment is renewed. To initiate a background check, submit a Background Request Screening Form Additional Resources For additional information, visit the Georgia Tech Service Portal at services.gatech.edu. Select “Human Resources” and type your question in the search bar. Or you can select the word “Knowledge” in the menu bar at the top, and in the drop down, select “Human Resources Knowledge.” BuzzCard After onboarding and a Georgia Tech account is setup in HR, the Affiliate will need their GTID number and proper identification in order to obtain their $30 Affiliate BuzzCard from the BuzzCard Center. (Note: Postdoctoral Scholar Affiliates will be issued a Faculty/Staff BuzzCard.) Visit services.gatech.edu to access knowledge materials, submit requests, and report incidents directly. LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login