Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Workplace Learning & Professional Development Resources Campus Learning Directory Campus Learning Directory About Services Team Location Contact Learning Course Catalog Programs ASPIRE MentorTech New Employees Professional Development Circles People Leaders Resources Course Catalog Custom Training Campus Learning Directory Interruptions Podcast Additional Resources News from WLPD Innovation, collaboration, and learning touches every part of Georgia Tech — spanning across learning institutions, campus units, and campus services. Designed to help you explore these wide range of interesting and engaging learning opportunities happening on campus throughout the year, our Learning and Development Directory features a mixture of traditional training, professional development programs, group activities for physical and mental health, opportunities to explore creativity, and exhibits and seminars. As new programs and opportunities are always being launched, and changes in existing programming regularly occur, please complete this form to add, edit, or remove an entry from the directory. Professional Development Workplace Learning & Professional Development As Georgia Tech's campus provider of staff and faculty professional development opportunities, Workplace Learning & Professional Development (WLPD) is dedicated to advancing Georgia Tech’s mission and our community members’ career potential through engaging and applicable learning. Locate values-based skills training, or request a customized learning plan for you or your team. Learn More about WLPD > Professional Development Circles Professional Development Circles are small, organized groups of people-manager professionals who gather to encourage each other, build connection and enhance their management fluency. Learn More about Professional Development Circles > MentorTech Step out of your comfort zone and into a one-on-one experience designed to elevate your horizons and strengthen your leadership skills; serve as a mentor or participate as a mentee. Learn More about MentorTech > ASPIRE Aspire is a four-month program designed to help aspiring leaders, who do not currently manage others, cultivate a leadership mindset and to lead from where they are. Learn more about ASPIRE > Education Assistance (TAP, STRAP, GTRC) Georgia Tech offers several educational assistance programs for its faculty and staff that provide a tuition and mandatory fee waiver or reimbursement to full-time employees and research titled faculty. Learn More about Education Assistance > Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) Staff Diversity, Inclusion, and Engagement offers six Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to support Georgia Tech’s efforts to build community and ensure that employees experience a greater sense of belonging. Learn More about ERGs > Leading Women@Tech Leading Women@Tech program was launched to engage senior and emerging women leaders at the Institute. Learn More about Leading Women@Tech > Diversity Symposium The Diversity Symposium provides a forum for robust, informed discussions among faculty, staff, and students, focusing on how we can support the Institute's commitment to inclusive excellence. Learn More about the Diversity Symposium > Inclusive Leaders Academy The Diversity Symposium provides a forum for robust, informed discussions among faculty, staff, and students, focusing on how we can support the Institute's commitment to inclusive excellence. Learn More about the Inclusive Leaders Academy > Evening (Part-Time) MBA The part-time format of our Evening MBA combines the comprehensive and customizable curriculum of our Full-time MBA with the flexibility to complete at your own pace, making it an ideal program for working professionals. Learn More about the Evening MBA Program > Library Classes The library offers a wide variety of classes that are available to Georgia Tech employees and students, including multimedia, data visualization, patent, and subject-specific classes focusing on business and company information resources. Learn More about the Library Classes > Library Book Borrowing Current Faculty and Staff who are paid through the Georgia Tech Payroll Office may borrow items using their BuzzCard, and from other Metro-Atlanta College libraries with an InterLibrary Use card. And don't forget about eBooks, audiobooks, journals, magazines, newspapers, and other services. Learn More about Library Book Borrowing > Techmasters (Toastmasters) Techmasters Club' is a local chapter of Toastmasters International at Georgia Tech formed in 1987, and frequently achieves the annual Toastmasters International designation of 'President's Distinguished'. Learn More about Techmasters > LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning is an online subscription library that teaches the latest software tools and skills through high-quality instructional videos taught by recognized industry experts. Georgia Tech provides unlimited access to LinkedIn Learning for all faculty, staff, and students. Learn More about LinkedIn Learning > Language Institute Resources Georgia Tech employees who are non-native English speakers may take courses at the Language Institute to improve their English communication skills for both professional and social reasons; resources include the Intensive English Program, short courses, or online courses. Learn More about the Language Institute > GTRI Organizational Development GTRI Organizational Development engages all of their Research Faculty and Staff in developing a sustainable and high achieving workforce within an environment that is conducive to attracting and retaining the “best." Resources include training, coaching, job rotation, and more. Learn More about GTRI Organizational Development > Professional Education Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE), the Institute’s lifelong learning arm, believes that employees, at every level, should have the opportunity to develop and grow as professionals. Whether you’re looking to gain in-depth expertise through an online master’s degree, update your professional skills with a program certificate, or explore an industry topic with an individual course, GTPE offers a diverse range of hands-on, practical learning opportunities that can be applied to your current position immediately. Before you decide to enroll, consider how you will fund your GTPE learning opportunities. As a Georgia Tech employee, there are financial savings available through GTPE course-based discounts and educational assistance programs, such as TAP. Additionally, engaging your manager is a key first step to determining how your department can financially support your learning goals. Learn More about GTPE > Health and Well-Being Employee Assistance Program The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) offers counseling and work/life balance assistance to employees and their family members. Learn More about the Employee Assistance Program > Fitness Classes Group and Personal Training fitness sessions offer an opportunity to learn life-long skills, increase fitness levels, and just have fun! Learn More about Fitness Classes > Aquatic Classes and Lessons Group, semi-private, and private instructional swim programs are available for children, minimum age of five years, and adults (CRC members and non-members). Learn More about Auqatic Classes and Lessons > Competitive Sports Competitive Sports provides students, faculty, and staff with the opportunity for competition and fun in a variety of team and individual sports activities at various levels. Learn More about Competitive Sports > Outdoor Recreation Georgia Tech offers one of the best outdoor recreation programs with adventure trips, leadership opportunities, outdoor gear rental and a leadership challenge course! Learn More about Outdoor Sports > Be Well Series (Benefits Education Workshops) The benefits of education and wellness series will equip employees with the tools they need to make smart wellness choices for themselves and their families. Learn More about the Be Well Series > Health Initiatives Events/Programs Health Initiatives is dedicated to creating programs and services that empower the campus community to practice healthy lifestyle behaviors; this includes "Certified Healthy" programs, book clubs, motivation and reinforcement tools, and more. Learn More about Health Initiatives Events/Programs > Safety Programs and Classes The Crime Prevention Unit within the Georgia Tech Police Department engages everyone in the campus community in order to reduce crime and create a safer environment, offering a range of free classes to help educate students, faculty, and staff about safety and awareness. Learn More about Safety Programs and Classes > Citizens Police Academy The Citizen's Police Academy is a four-week program designed to educate and inform citizens about issues that face campus law enforcement efforts at Georgia Tech and how the department operates; it is open to all members of the Georgia Tech community, including students, faculty, and staff. Learn More about the Citizens Police Academy > Women's Resource Center (Programs & Events) The mission of the Women's Resource Center is to encourage and enhance the academic, personal and professional development of women at Georgia Tech by striving to create an environment that is inclusive and supportive of their vast diversity of experiences. Learn More about the Women's Resource Center > LGBTQIA Resource Center (Programs & Events) The LGBTQIA Resource Center supports the Institute's commitment to inclusive excellence by engaging the campus community in education, advocacy, and outreach for people of all genders and sexual identities. Learn More about the LGBTQIA Resource Center > Creative Ferst Center Performance/Events Ferst Center for the Arts serves as a showcase for the presentation of concerts, lectures, dance, film, and theater. Learn More about the Ferst Center Performance/Events > Papermaking Museum Tours/Exhibitions Tour the Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking to discover how papermaking has evolved over time, including approximately three changing exhibits a year on and about paper. Learn More about Papermaking Museum Tours/Exhibitions > Papermaking Museum Workshops These workshops provide instruction and materials for unique paper making and paper-related projects for a team experience. Learn More about Papermaking Museum Workshops > Georgia Tech Faculty and Staff Art Exhibit The Office of the Arts presents the second annual Arts@Tech Faculty and Staff Art Exhibit. This exhibit serves as a unique opportunity for Georgia Tech faculty and staff to display their artwork in the Ferst Center for the Arts. At the opening reception and for the first week of the exhibit, visitors can vote for their favorite piece of art. Learn More about Georgia Tech Faculty and Staff Art Exhibit > Ticket Buzz (Atlanta area Ticket Discounts) Ferst Center Box Office offers the campus community discounted tickets to local area attractions, movies, activities and more! Learn More about Ticket Buzz > Perks and Programs (Discounts) Georgia Tech has a partnership with local, statewide and national businesses that offer discounts and other incentives to employees and students with valid University identification cards. Leanr More about Perks and Programs > Invention Studio Workshops and Project Creation Whether it’s for research, personal, or academic usage, the Invention Studio supports all students, staff, and faculty in their desire to build projects using 3D printers, laser cutters, waterjets, and more. Learn More about Invention Studio Workshops and Project Creation > Paper and Clay The many pottery, ceramic glazing, and other art activity classes and workshops offered throughout the year are a great way to hone your or your team's skills and engage your right brain. Learn More about Paper and Clay > Tech Rec Tech Rec has eight bowling lanes, eight billiards tables, a gaming lounge, table tennis, air hockey, and foosball to engage you and your team. Learn More about Tech Rec > Service to Others Civic Engagement Civic engagement encompasses the numerous ways in which students, faculty and staff promote positive social change. Opportunities to engage with community partners exist in co-curricular settings, academic based community service courses, and departmental sponsored outreach programs. Learn More about Civic Engagement > Student Organizations Getting engaged in life in and outside of the classroom is key to student success at Georgia Tech. Joining or chartering a student organization provides an opportunity for them to sharpen organizational, leadership, and communication skills. And as a faculty or staff member you can support this effort by serving as an organization advisor. Learn More about Student Organizations > GT 1000 & GT 2000 Georgia Tech employees, who have been employed by GT for at least one year prior to the start of the semester they will teach and have earned a Master's degree or higher in any field, can apply to teach a section of GT 1000 or GT 2000. Learn More about GT 1000 & GT 2000 > Leadership Fellows (Leadership, Education, & Development) The LEAD Office has created a leadership-based fellows program for Georgia Tech Master's, Ph.D. students, faculty, staff, and alumni who have an interest in learning to develop others and would like to become a leadership coach for Georgia Tech students. Learn More about Leadership Fellows > LGBTQIA Resource Center (Programs & Events) The LGBTQIA Resource Center supports the Institute's commitment to inclusive excellence by engaging the campus community in education, advocacy, and outreach for people of all genders and sexual identities. Learn More about the LGBTQIA Resource Center > Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Program The Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Program brings together faculty, staff, and students who individually and collectively advance their action, research, or teaching objectives while improving inclusivity on campus. Learn More about Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Program > GradHiring More than 500 graduate students start jobs at Georgia Tech each fall, all of which require new hire processing. In order to complete this momentous endeavor, a small army of volunteers are needed to work side-by-side with GTHR professionals. Consider giving some of your time to support our new employees. Learn More about GradHiring > Team Development Leadership Challenge Course The Leadership Challenge Course (LCC) is a uniquely designed course that delivers the ultimate team experience for intact groups ranging in size from eight to 150 or more. Learn More about the Leadership Challenge Course > Papermaking Museum Workshops These workshops provide instruction and materials for unique paper making and paper-related projects for a team experience. Learn More about Papermaking Museum Workshops > Workplace Learning & Professional Development As Georgia Tech's campus provider of staff and faculty professional development opportunities, Workplace Learning & Professional Development (WLPD) is dedicated to advancing Georgia Tech’s mission and our community members’ career potential through engaging and applicable learning. Locate values-based skills training, or request a customized learning plan for you or your team. Learn More about WLPD > Competitive Sports Competitive Sports provides students, faculty, and staff with the opportunity for competition and fun in a variety of team and individual sports activities at various levels. Learn More about Competitive Sports > Tech Rec Tech Rec has eight bowling lanes, eight billiards tables, a gaming lounge, table tennis, air hockey, and foosball to engage you and your team. Learn More about Tech Rec > Paper and Clay The many pottery, ceramic glazing, and other art activity classes and workshops offered throughout the year are a great way to hone your or your team's skills and engage your right brain. Learn More about Paper and Clay > Academic/Research Center for Teaching and Learning The Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) is here to enhance the learning and teaching environment at Georgia Tech by encouraging a fully engaged, sharing community with communication networks, resources, and innovative programs for faculty, postdoctoral scholars, and graduate students; this includes workshops, teaching book clubs, several Teaching Fellows programs, and more. Learn More about the Center for Teaching and Learning > Petit Institute (Seminars and Events) The Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience serves as a catalyst for innovative bioengineering and bioscience research, and offers a bold variety of both traditional and cutting-edge medical research. Learn More about the Petit Institute > Robotarium The Robotarium project provides a remotely accessible swarm robotics research platform that remains freely accessible to anyone. Opened on August 22, 2017, the 725-square-foot facility houses more than 100 rolling and flying swarm robots that are accessible to anyone. Researchers from around the globe can write their own computer programs, upload them, then get the results as the Georgia Tech machines carry out the commands. Learn More about the Robotarium > Invention Studio Workshops and Project Creation Whether it’s for research, personal, or academic usage, the Invention Studio supports all students, staff, and faculty in their desire to build projects using 3D printers, laser cutters, waterjets, and more. Learn More about Invention Studio Workshops and Project Creation > ADVANCE Program The ADVANCE Program builds and sustains an inter-college network of professors who are world-class researchers and role models to support the community and advancement of women and minorities in academia. Learn More about the ADVANCE Program > Library Classes The library offers a wide variety of classes that are available to Georgia Tech employees and students, including multimedia, data visualization, patent, and subject-specific classes focusing on business and company information resources. Learn More about the Library Classes > Library Book Borrowing Current Faculty and Staff who are paid through the Georgia Tech Payroll Office may borrow items using their BuzzCard, and from other Metro-Atlanta College libraries with an InterLibrary Use card. And don't forget about eBooks, audiobooks, journals, magazines, newspapers, and other services. Learn More about Library Book Borrowing > Professional Education Georgia Tech Professional Education (GTPE), the Institute’s lifelong learning arm, believes that employees, at every level, should have the opportunity to develop and grow as professionals. Whether you’re looking to gain in-depth expertise through an online master’s degree, update your professional skills with a program certificate, or explore an industry topic with an individual course, GTPE offers a diverse range of hands-on, practical learning opportunities that can be applied to your current position immediately. Before you decide to enroll, consider how you will fund your GTPE learning opportunities. As a Georgia Tech employee, there are financial savings available through GTPE course-based discounts and educational assistance programs, such as TAP. Additionally, engaging your manager is a key first step to determining how your department can financially support your learning goals. Learn More about GTPE > Leadership Fellows (Leadership, Education, & Development) The LEAD Office has created a leadership-based fellows program for Georgia Tech Master's, Ph.D. students, faculty, staff, and alumni who have an interest in learning to develop others and would like to become a leadership coach for Georgia Tech students. Learn More about Leadership Fellows > Education Assistance (TAP, STRAP, GTRC) Georgia Tech offers several educational assistance programs for its faculty and staff that provide a tuition and mandatory fee waiver or reimbursement to full-time employees and research titled faculty. Learn More about Education Assistance > Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology