Skip to main content Tech Moving Forward: Learn more about GTPE's health and safety guidelines for in-person learning and events as well as our expanded virtual course offerings and virtual event services. Menu Home Subjects Browse By Subject Area Business Computing Defense Technologies Digital Media Engineering Exam Prep K-12 Programs Languages Management Manufacturing Mathematics Occupational Safety & Health Personal Development Supply Chain & Logistics Programs All Program Offerings Courses Degrees Graduate Certificates Professional Certificates Boot Camps Savannah Campus Workplace Learning & Professional Development Partner With Us Corporate Education Train at Your Location Featured FinTechU Georgia Tech Summer K-12 Programs Military Programs ESL (English as a Second Language) Georgia Film Academy Georgia Tech Online All Online Offerings Online Courses Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) Savannah Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events In-Person Meetings Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conference Management Blog Georgia Tech Main Site Give Directory Sign In My Cart Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Mailing List YouTube Search Select Search Category Everything Courses & Programs Degree Programs Articles & News GTPE Website Search this site Home Workplace Learning & Professional Development Programs Professional Development Circles Professional Development Circles Cultivate your community with circles About Services Team Location Contact Learning Course Catalog Programs ASPIRE MentorTech New Employees Professional Development Circles People Leaders Resources Course Catalog Custom Training Campus Learning Directory Interruptions Podcast Additional Resources News from WLPD We believe having a connectional community makes your ability to navigate professionally more seamless. We also believe we are made better as we interact and learn with and from those around us. It is with these beliefs in mind that Professional Development Circles were created. Designed as small, organized groups of people leaders, Professional Development Circles draw together faculty and staff from all levels of the Institute for collaborative problem solving, encouragement, connection building, and leadership fluency. It is our intention to nurture and cultivate a growth mindset and build skill sets to aid in the successful management of other people. While we provide a set of curriculum guides to aid you in jump-starting your initial circle meetings, this is a self-directed learning opportunity. As such, participants have the freedom to create their own path for the experience, focusing on their specific learning and development needs. Circle Formation is Now Closed Submit Interest to Join a Future Circle Submit Interest How the Program Works Participants who have expressed interest will be notified when circles are formed and placed in a diverse group of 8-10 participants. A kickoff meeting will provide an opportunity to meet group members and jump-start your first circle meeting. As a group, you'll utilize the provided curriculum as a guide while identifying other topics based on need and relevancy. Meetings continue for as long as the group maintains interest. We recommend meeting at least two hours a month. Who Should Attend Professional Development Circles are designed for any Georgia Tech faculty or staff members who manage people and have a desire to engage in discussion and co-inquiry around leadership and people-management related topics, as well as a willingness to co-create a learning environment that generates an experience to learn from yourself and your circle members. Circles are structured for those who prefer more conversation and less structure; multiple deep-dive sessions; and shared responsibility for the facilitation and direction of the learning. How You Will Benefit By participating in Professional Development Circles, you will be able to: Enhance your support network of colleagues. Engage in a mindset shift. Explore topics around leadership development. Supplement workplace performance. Contribute to the betterment of the Institute. Develop relationships outside your sphere of influence. Create opportunities for cross-collaboration. "Continue to offer this kind of opportunity to connect with others across campus in small groups of peers without a designated leader. It may not pan out every time for every group, but when it works, like it did for our group, it is of value." Past Participant "I think the Workplace Learning team has done an enormous amount by making this opportunity available. The rest is up to the team to remain committed so we can all benefit form this developmental opportunity." Past Participant "This has been extremely useful, and I really like my circle. Thank you for setting up this program! Kudos!" Past Participant "My circle is amazing! We have created a meaningful, supportive connection that may last the rest of my career. Thank you setting this up. I'm so glad I gave this a shot." Past Participant Listen: Interruptions Podcast - Learning through Circles Professional Development Circles are a self-sustaining, collaborative learning experience regardless of position or years of service to Georgia Tech. In Episode 12 of the Interruptions podcast, LaTrese Ferguson, manager of Workplace Learning & Professional Development, emphasizes the need for these informal community networks, and a past participant shares her diverse experiences with the program. Listen to the Podcast Episode Interested? Want to learn more about Professional Development Circles? Need additional support or resources for your current circle group? Want to be notified when circles are being formed? Submit Interest Form Resources Programs Browse by Subject Courses Certificates Degrees Military Programs ESL Georgia Tech Online Train at Your Location Event Services Virtual & Hybrid Events Global Learning Center Savannah Facilities Academic Conferences About Us Executive Leadership Leadership Searches Impact Reports Savannah Campus The Language Institute Accreditation Contact Us FAQs Visit Us Georgia Tech Global Learning Center 84 5th St NW Atlanta GA 30308 USA Get Directions Phone: 404-385-3500 Emergency Information Legal and Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Report Website Issue © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology