Skip to content Toggle navigation Human Resources Careers Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Work-Life Programs Newly Hired and Eligible Time Away from Work FMLA Vaccine Administrative Day Paid Parental Leave Using Leave for Covid-19 Vaccination Retirement Benefits Separating Benefits Perks & Programs ACA GRA Health Insurance Option Vendor Directory Open Enrollment Be Well: Benefits Education Workshop Series Payroll Compensation Staff Job Descriptions & Salary Structures Salary Job Status/Exemption Job Evaluation & Review Comprehensive Compensation Program Review Overview & Outcomes Glossary and FAQs Phase 2 Guidelines Cost-of-Living Adjustment Global Employees in the EU Nonimmigrant Status Permanent Residence Tax Compliance Travel Insurance Affiliates Learning & Development Campus Learning Directory New Employee Experience Professional Development Circles MentorTech: Professional Partnerships Aspire Employment Student Employment Onboarding Resources for Employees Employee Homepage Manager Homepage Employee Relations Hiring Talent Performance Management Workers Compensation Georgia Tech Policy Library Off-Boarding & Retirement News & Events HR News HR Events Who is HR? Working @Tech Working @ Tech Tool Kit Understanding Flexwork Arrangements Flexwork Environments For Employees For People Leaders Flexwork Policies Flexwork Resources Guiding Principles Contact Us Forms & Guides Go to TechWorks Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Employment Onboarding Welcome to Let's get started. You'll be working at one of the nation's top research universities, distinguished by its commitment to improving the human condition through advanced science and technology. Our campus occupies 450 acres in the heart of the city of Atlanta, where more than 20,000 undergraduate and graduate students receive a focused, technologically based education. As a newly hired employee, you will receive an email from the Equifax Compliance Center with instructions for completing an electronic onboarding process. Once the process is complete, you will be prompted to complete further action including the steps below. Make an Appointment Once the Online New Hire Packet has been completed, you will receive an email with instructions to complete the I-9 and the Loyalty Oath. To start work at Georgia Tech, you need to complete the I-9 process. You will need to meet with GTHR in-person for this process. Plan at least 30 minutes. Walk-ins without an appointment are welcome but may have to wait. (This appt. may have been made on your behalf; check with your manager.) Click Here to Schedule Review Your Benefits Georgia Tech offers a wide variety of benefits – everything from health and welfare to discounts on the latest technology. If you're benefits-eligible, remember you only have 30 days to make selections! Click Here to Learn More Complete Your Training The Institute requires new employees to complete the New Hire Learning and Compliance program, which includes six online tutorials designed to address many of the most pressing risks facing modern universities. Click Here to Learn More Attend NEE After you’re hired as a benefits-eligible employee, make sure you attend New Employee Experience. The first session includes a campus tour, lunch, and insight on how the campus runs. Click Here to Learn More Review Your Homepage Use the Employee HR Homepage to learning how things work, like the logistics behind your paycheck or how salaries are determined. Or review the necessary steps to prepare for life events, like family changes, returning to school or taking extended leave. We provide directions to it all. View the Homepage Special Notes The onboarding process may be different if you're a student or a rehire. Click below to learn more. Student Employees Rehires LinkedIn Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login