Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / TOTAL REWARDS / HEALTH & WELFARE BENEFITS / Medical Medical Plans Harvard offers you a choice of several medical plans so that you can compare the options and select a plan that best meets your and your family’s needs and preferences. Plans are offered through two providers: Harvard's own Harvard University Group Health Plan (HUGHP) and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts (BCBSMA). While both networks offer access to the same specialists, if you enroll in HUGHP, you will need to choose a primary care physician within the Harvard University Health Services or Atrius Health provider network. See how the two provider networks compare. Notice: Health Plan Resources for COVID-19; Certain Copayments Waived Over-the-counter COVID test coverage: If you are enrolled in a Harvard-sponsored BCBS or HUGHP medical plan, you and your enrolled dependents can be reimbursed for, and purchase or order – at no charge to you – up to eight at-home COVID test kits each per 30-day period through Express Scripts (ESI). Here’s how it works: Purchase: Buy tests at any ESI network pharmacy, show your ESI ID card when you check out at the pharmacy counter (not the regular checkout lane), and the tests should ring up at no cost to you. To find a local ESI pharmacy, visit express-scripts.com and click “Find a Pharmacy.” Be reimbursed: If you purchase at a non-ESI pharmacy or pay via the regular checkout lane, you can submit your receipts for reimbursement - up to $12 per test ($24 per two-pack). You can be reimbursed for test kits purchased on or after January 15, 2022. Order: You may also order tests via mail order by visiting express-scripts.com. Note: Reimbursement requests submitted to BCBS for eligible home test kits purchased January 15 through February 4, 2022 will be processed by BCBS. Tests purchased after February 4 must be submitted to Express Scripts. You cannot be reimbursed for the same kits through both BCBS and ESI. As the University continues to work to address the needs of faculty and staff during the Coronavirus/COVID-19 public health emergency, Harvard in conjunction with its health plans will waive certain copayments. Copayment waivers: You are encouraged to take advantage as needed of the following convenient options that are open to both BCBSMA and HUGHP members that allow you to access treatment and information without visiting a clinical setting in person: BCBS Well Connection. See licensed in-network doctors and providers for minor medical and behavioral health care using live video visits on your favorite device. Telehealth offers convenience (within the United States) as well as the opportunity to avoid potential exposure to contagion. Medical consultations 24/7. Learn more and how to access Well Connection. (Note that many telehealth copayments will be waived at this time, see below.) HUGHP members who use HUHS may access telehealth appointments for urgent care, counseling/behavioral health and some other services. Learn more about HUHS telehealth and how to make an appointment. BCBSMA has a dedicated coronavirus helpline at 888-372-1970 to answer questions about benefits, providers and other resources related to COVID-19. If you are a member with specific questions or concerns about your health or coverage, you should continue to call the BCBSMA phone number on the back of your member card. POS/POS+ members with out-of-network behavioral health providers should contact BCBSMA directly at the phone number on the back of the member card if notified by providers that they are changing to telehealth appointments during the coronavirus emergency. BCBSMA will provide information on the process for filing claims. See a list of free wellbeing resources and behavioral health resources compiled by BCBSMA Health Engagement (note that these are not affiliated with BCBSMA). Cost-share waivers: Waive copayments, coinsurance and deductibles for medically-necessary testing, counseling, vaccines and treatment provided at doctors' offices, emergency rooms and urgent care centers, and acute inpatient care consistent with the guidance issued by the Massachusetts Division of Insurance. Any medical treatment for COVID-19 is covered under a member's health plan within the U.S. and internationally. Waive copayments, coinsurance and deductibles for telephonic and telehealth visits with an in-network provider, including Well Connection, for COVID-19 services. This is for both BCBSMA and HUGHP members (see note about out-of-network behavioral health services above). Express Scripts, provider of pharmacy benefits for all Harvard medical plans, offers home delivery for medications. Plan options Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) With an HMO, you select a primary care physician (PCP) who coordinates your care and can provide you with referrals to in-network specialists. Out-of-network care is not covered, except in certain emergency situations. Point of Service (POS) Like an HMO, you designate a PCP. However, you have the flexibility to use out-of-network providers for services, with higher out-of-pocket costs. Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) Available only to employees who reside outside New England through BCBSMA. Go to any health care professional you choose inside or outside your network without a PCP referral. You will have higher out-of-pocket costs for out-of-network care. Also available to Faculty and Nonunion Staff High-Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) Featuring lower premiums and higher deductibles than a traditional health plan, the HDHP is offered in conjunction with a Health Savings Account (HSA). (External postdocs and stipendees are not eligible for this plan.) POS Plus With the same benefits as a traditional POS, the POS Plus plan has higher premiums and a higher out-of-pocket maximum in exchange for no deductible or coinsurance for in-network services. PPO Plus Available only to employees who reside outside New England through BCBSMA. Same benefits as the PPO, but with higher premiums and a higher out-of-pocket maximum in exchange for no deductible or coinsurance for in-network services. Also available to SEIU members Combined medical, dental and vision coverage through the SEIU for members and eligible dependents (domestic partners are not eligible). If you enroll in the SEIU plan, you cannot also be enrolled in Harvard’s dental or vision coverage. Learn more by reviewing our Medical Plan Overview for 2022. Prescription coverage Prescription coverage is included in all Harvard plans and is provided through Express Scripts. Express Scripts offers a number of web- and app-based tools, including drug price comparison, signing up for mail order, downloading a member ID card and more. Learn how to make the most of these tools. Certain medications used to prevent or manage the treatment of chronic medical conditions are available at a reduced or no cost under new federal guidelines (effective January 1, 2022). You can view a list of preventive medications in Harvard's plans for 2022 that are covered by this change and learn more in these Frequently Asked Questions. Prescription Copayment Assistance Program: Harvard offers a program through PillarRx Consulting, a prescription benefit consulting firm, that finds copay assistance programs that may be available from drug manufacturers for certain specialty medications. If you are prescribed an eligible medication, you will be contacted by PillarRx to facilitate enrollment in the manufacturer programs. To use the program, you must enroll and fill the prescription through Accredo, ESI’s specialty pharmacy. (Please note: Manufacturer assistance dollars may not accumulate toward deductibles and/or out-of-pocket maximums.) Additional plans Global benefit program For eligible employees working abroad. Learn more. Retiree health programs Benefits for employees who are in retirement. Learn more. Compare plan features and rates To compare plans available to you, including rates and coverage options, please go to the Plan Rates & Features page and choose the information for your employee group. COBRA, Layoff, Global Plan and Ex-Spouse rates can be found under Forms & Documents > Total Rewards > Health Benefit Rates. Rates for Domestic Partner can be found at Forms & Documents > Total Rewards > Domestic Partner. Fitness/weight-loss reimbursement benefit HUGHP and BCBSMA provide members with a reimbursement of up $150 per year toward membership at gyms/fitness facility or eligible weight-loss program. For 2021, this benefit also covers cardiovascular-related online fitness class subscriptions (fitness equipment is not covered). Check with your health plan provider for details about eligible expenses and reimbursement instructions. Español - Solicitud de reembolso por acondicionamiento físico. SmartShopper All faculty and staff enrolled in a Harvard-sponsored medical plan have access to an optional program, SmartShopper, that lets you compare costs for certain medical procedures and receive a financial incentive of up to $250 for using a preferred provider. Prices for same quality medical services can vary by hundreds to thousands of dollars. When your doctor recommends a procedure or test, visit the SmartShopper portal (see flyer for portal links) or call the Personal Assistant team at 877-281-3722 to determine whether the procedure is offered at a convenient provider at a lower price. When you select a more cost-effective location, you will receive a financial incentive. Sample incentives (many other procedures are included): Health Care Service Financial incentives paid to participant (amount depends on provider selection) Bone density scan $25-$50 Bunionectomy $50-$150 Cataract removal $50-$125 Colonoscopy $50-$250 CT scan $50-$75 Knee or shoulder arthroscopy $50-$250 Mammogram $25-$50 MRI $50-$100 Ultrasound (non-maternity) $50-$150 Payments are taxable and you will receive a 1099 tax form for reporting purposes from SmartShopper when you receive $600 or more in a year. Employees and dependents are eligible provided they are not also enrolled in Medicare or Medicaid. Form 1095-C Harvard is required under the federal Affordable Care Act (ACA) to provide Form 1095-C to active employees eligible for Harvard group health coverage in 2021, indicating that coverage meets the ACA's "Minimum Essential Coverage." 2021 forms will be mailed by the deadline of March 2, 2022. This form should be kept with your tax records (although you are not required to submit the form with your tax return). You can learn more here: Frequently Asked Questions about Form 1095-C Affordable Care Act (ACA) & Taxes - Information at a Glance Q&A about Form 1095-C Total Rewards Compensation Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Plan Rates & Features Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events – How to Change your Benefits Vendor Contacts Retirement Paid Time Off Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Employee Recognition Enroll or make changes Contact a Provider Compare plans and view rates Learn More By reviewing our Medical Plan Overview for 2022. Want even more details? Check out our Health & Welfare Summary Plan Description (SPD) Contact Us Benefits Office 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 4th floor Cambridge, MA 02138 Call center: 617-496-4001; M, T, Th, F, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; W, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Email: benefits@harvard.edu Fax: 617-496-3000 Medical HUGHP Member Services: 617-495-2008 mservices@huhs.harvard.edu Blue Cross Blue Shield of MA (BCBSMA): 888-389-7732 https://home.bluecrossma.com/ Dental Delta Dental Customer Service: 800-872-0500 Pharmacy Benefit Manager Express Scripts express-scripts.com Benefit Strategies - Harvard's administrator for FSA, Reimbursement Programs https://www.benstrat.com/clients/harvard/ Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement