Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / WORK/LIFE / CARING FOR CHILDREN / School-Aged Children Help Navigating Schooling: Personal education advisors from Ed Navigator Camp Kinda and CK Jr.: Enriching at-home activities for children ages 3-13. Public Schools Private Schools and Religious Schools After-School Programs Summer Camps and School Vacation Programs EdNavigator - Help Navigating Schooling With families trying to balance life, work, and school – still happening at home for many – we know this is an especially stressful time for working parents. Harvard offers three educational resources that we hope will reduce at least some of the burden on Harvard staff and faculty as we continue to brave the ups and downs of the pandemic, and beyond. These are available from EdNavigator, a nonprofit organization specializing in supporting families' educational success. The resources aim to support parents in keeping children on the path to a great education even when there are bumps along the way. Personal Education Advisors EdNavigator connects busy families with personal education advisors ("Navigators"). Navigators include award-winning teachers, veteran school leaders, and other education professionals who know schools across the greater Boston area. They support families of all backgrounds with students in all types of schools, and can provide practical advice and support whether your child is excelling or struggling. EdNavigator can assist with a broad range of educational issues, including: Managing the challenges of remote and hybrid learning Understanding your child's learning needs and progress in school, including students with IEPs Ensuring your child is ready for college or a fulfilling career Finding high-quality educational programming and resources outside of school Troubleshooting education challenges You can call or chat with your Navigator via EdNavigator’s free app or meet in-person on the Harvard University campus (when it’s safe). This short video explains how it all works. Meet a Navigator. Meet a Navigator video in Spanish. How to Get Started with Ed Navigator, Camp Kinda and CK Jr. These supports are available at no cost to all benefits-eligible Harvard University staff and faculty. (Available to affiliates and non-benefits-eligible employees for an annual or monthly fee.) Here is how to get started: Download the free EdNavigator app (search "EdNavigator" in the Apple App Store or Google Play Store) Tap "Get Started" and if you are a benefits-eligible Harvard employee, enter the code when prompted. The codes are on these flyers: in English and Spanish. Set up your account and meet your Navigator, or go straight to camp – or both. Camp Kinda and CK Jr. Many parents are bracing for another month or more of uncertainty and anxiety regarding schooling. Whether your kids' classrooms are consistently open or intermittently closed, your registration with EdNavigator allows you to revisit both Camp Kinda and CK Jr. These exploratory learning experiences are designed to keep kids ages 3-13 engaged, curious, and having fun — even if they're stuck at home. The archives are now open with 350+ hours of at-home adventures for your kids—including five all-new adventures and five "remixes" from Summer 2021, in case you missed them. Questions? Questions about how these programs work? Contact Work/Life. Email support@ednavigator.com if you have any technical issues. Public Schools All cities and towns in Massachusetts must provide public education starting with kindergarten, and the age for admittance to kindergarten varies by community. You can find that information along with links to the websites for several of the public schools systems that are closest to Harvard's campuses by downloading this information sheet. Some communities participate in the Massachusetts School Choice Program, which allows you to choose a school outside of your immediate school district. For more information, contact your town’s public school system or the Massachusetts Department of Education at 800-297-0002 or doe.mass.edu. Private and Religious Schools Independent private schools determine their own mission and curriculum. Learn more at the Association of Independent Schools in New England. Parochial and other religious schools provide some religious instruction in addition to a secular curriculum. You can access a list of the state’s private schools by religious affiliation at Private School Review. After-school Programs If you need child care after the school day ends, an after-school program may be a good solution. Available through schools, local community centers (such as the YMCA), child care centers, and licensed family child care homes, these programs often feature arts, crafts, games, and sports, as well as time to do homework. The following resources can help with your search: Harvard’s Employee Assistance Program offers a dependent-care resource and referral service and can provide you with a customized list of after-school options. The Massachusetts Department of Early Education and Care provides lists of licensed after-school programs. Summer Camps and School Vacation Programs For information on summer camps and school-vacation programs, please visit this page. Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Caring for Elders and Other Adults Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself Connected & Caring Community Military Support Contact Us University Office of Work/Life Phone: 617-495-4100 worklife@harvard.edu Longwood Campus Work/Life Programs Phone: 617-432-1048 worklife@hsph.harvard.edu Employee Assistance Program 877-EAP-HARV (877-327-4278) Office of Work/Life Programs and Resources Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement