Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / TOTAL REWARDS / Employee Discounts and Perks As a Harvard faculty or staff member, you enjoy many perks that come with working for one of the top employers in Massachusetts, as well as access to the unique cultural resources at one of the world's top universities. Banking, Mortgage, and Housing Harvard's real estate and mortgage resources can help you with many housing needs, from finding a roommate to securing the mortgage on your own home. You can also join the nonprofit, member-owned Harvard University Employees Credit Union, which offers a full range of banking services and loans. Harvard University Employees Credit Union (HUECU) offers start-to-finish guidance in the home-buying process along with a full range of banking and credit services, including mortgages and home equity loans, credit cards, auto, vacation and educational loans, and IRAs. Membership is open to all employees. HUECU Coronavirus Support In response to the coronavirus emergency, HUECU is offering support to members, including financial support: loan payment relief for home, car and tuition loans and credit cards. The Real Estate Advantage Program provides individualized counseling for home-buyers and sellers, representation throughout the process, a cash back bonus, preferred mortgage lending services, and free home buying and selling webinars. The Coldwell Banker Real Estate Advantage Program offers a full-service real estate experience to Harvard faculty and staff. Program benefits include a real estate coordinator to guide you through the home buying and selling process, a Coldwell Banker real estate agent introduced to you through the program, access to educational Real Estate Webinar Series Webinar Series Schedule and a cash bonus after closing (terms and conditions apply). To learn more visit Real Estate Advantage or call 888-393-0699. Harvard offers preferred mortgage lender services through Citizens Bank and Flagstar, with discounts for faculty and staff: Citizens Bank offers discounted pricing for all faculty and staff for all purchase and refinance mortgage programs. The Harvard University Preferred Mortgage Team is managed by Daniel P. Heffernan, with 31+ years of experience assisting Harvard employees. Please contact Daniel P. Heffernan, NMLS #680432, 617-994-7578; Meredith Carr, Loan Officer Assistant, NMLS #2001749, 603-854-4124 or Sr. Loan Officer Assistant, Lisa G. Sabey, NMLS #680433, 617-994-7549 (Lisa is currently out on maternity leave but will be returning in mid-April). Their office is located at 28 State Street, in downtown Boston. Flagstar Bank offers mortgage loan discounted pricing for University employee transactions. Flagstar Bank also offers a product with additional benefits for employees in the medical field. James Loughrey is the Team Manager, with 24 years’ experience assisting Harvard employees. Please contact James Loughrey, NMLS #483503, at 978-618-0224 or Mark Landry , Loan Advisor, NMLS #1164119 at 978-857-2952. Harvard University Housing manages rentals of University-owned properties. Their site also links to private-market listings. Employment and/or Income Verification: To verify your Harvard employment and/or income, please contact The Work Number, which handles employment and income verifications for Harvard. Personal Insurance Group Home and Auto Insurance Full-time employees who live in Massachusetts receive discounts on group home and auto insurance through MetLife or Liberty Mutual Insurance, including a 5 percent homeowner’s discount and a 10 percent discount on a homeowner’s policy if you insure both your auto and home. For a free, no-obligation quote or more information, visit the voluntary benefits site or call Mercer at 866-228-3516. Pet Insurance Harvard offers pet insurance for cats and dogs through Pets Best. Pets Best offers coverage levels and options to meet your needs, payroll deduction and a 5 percent discount on the BestBenefits Plan. You may use any vet with this plan. You may enroll at any time; enroll by the 15th of the month for coverage beginning the first day of the following month. For plan details and price, and to enroll, call 866-228-3516 or visit CrimsonPersonalPlans.com. Legal Coverage The most in-depth option, MetLife Legal Plans, provides fully covered legal services from attorneys who specialize in estate planning, civil suits, adoption, identity theft, and more for you, your spouse/domestic partner and dependents. There are some excluded services, including employment-related matters, divorce, class action, and others; refer to the MetLife Legal Plans flyer for details. There are no copayments, claim forms or usage limits when using one of the 14,000 network attorneys. You may also use an out-of-network attorney and be reimbursed for covered services. If you want this coverage, you must elect it during your first 30 days of benefits eligibility or during the annual Open Enrollment period. Once enrolled, contact MetLife Legal Plans at 800-821-6400 or visit info.legalplans.com, use access code 9260452 to use the service. In addition to MetLife Legal Plans, Harvard has two other options: Harvard Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Through the EAP, you and any member of your household can consult with a lawyer by phone, free of charge. If after the confidential consultation you wish to retain legal representation, the EAP can refer you to an attorney who provides services at a 25% discount. No enrollment is necessary. When you enroll in Supplemental Life Insurance, you and your spouse/domestic partner can access free will preparation (including living will and power of attorney) and estate resolution/probate services. To learn more, call 800-821-6400 and use group number 109929. Identity Theft Protection Allstate Identity Protection provides identity and credit monitoring, proactive alerts, and full-service restoration and insurance coverage of up to $1M if your identity is stolen. Coverage available at individual and family levels. You can learn more at allstateidentityprotection.com or call 800-789-2720; also review FAQs about the coverage. If you want this coverage, you must elect it during your first 30 days of benefits eligibility or during the annual Open Enrollment period. If you enroll, you must take action and set up your account in order to activate the services. You will receive a welcome letter from Allstate with instructions within two week of submitting your enrollment. You and covered family members must provide Social Security numbers to enable full security monitoring. Computer Discounts Harvard University Information Technology (HUIT) offers special pricing through negotiated discounts on computers, software, and related accessories. Learn more about personal discounts. Outings & Innings Outings & Innings is an internal Harvard service for staff, faculty, retirees, students and some other Harvard affiliates that offers a dynamic menu of (1) date-specific tickets for a variety of performing arts and professional sports, (2) "anyday" tickets for movies, museums and seasonal attractions. O&I also partners with cultural attractions and businesses to offer special Harvard University ID discounts. O&I provides significant savings on many offerings, access to high-demand events and no hefty transaction fees! A HarvardKey is required to set up a customer account and to receive O&I’s E-List of upcoming events and special offers. Culture and Recreation Harvard is home to a range of museums with amazing collections and cultural opportunities. A Harvard ID provides free admission for you and one guest in most cases. Harvard Art Museums Harvard Museum of Natural History – Home of the world-famous Glass Flowers Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Harvard Film Archive - regularly priced shows are free to employees with their Harvard ID Observatory Nights – Lectures and star gazing The Arnold Arboretum – Lilac Sunday, lectures, walks and more in Jamaica Plain Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East The Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Harvard University Libraries – Books (new and historic), music and movie collections are part of the largest university collection in the world. Your Harvard ID is your library card. Harvard Box Office – Full-service ticketing booth for hundreds of professional and student events on campus. Online and in the Smith Campus Center Arcade. American Repertory Theater (A.R.T.) – A leading force in the American theater. Faculty and staff save $5 on tickets by presenting a Harvard ID at the A.R.T. box office Total Rewards Compensation Health & Welfare Benefits Retirement Paid Time Off Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition In The Spotlight My Harvard Total Rewards My Harvard Total Rewards is a secure, frequently updated tool where you can see a personalized view of the value of your total rewards package, including pay, health, insurance and retirement benefits, and learn more about the programs available through Harvard! Related Resources Outings & Innings Procurement Office discounts HU Voluntary Benefits Contact Banking/Housing Resources HUECU Locations in Harvard Square, Longwood Campus, MGH Phone: 617-495-4460 Email: cumembercontact@harvard.edu Wells Fargo Daniel P. Heffernan, 617-994-7578 Lisa G. Sabey, 617-994-7549 Flagstar Bank James Loughrey, 978-618-0224 Mark Landry , 978-857-2952. Faculty Real Estate Services 1350 Massachusetts Ave. 8th Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 617-495-8840 Email: fres@harvard.edu Harvard Housing Office 1350 Massachusetts Ave. 8th Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 617-495-3377 Email: huhousing@harvard.edu Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement