Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT / Performance Management FY22 Performance Management Update With remote work arrangements still in place for many employees due to sustained COVID-19 business impacts, this tip sheet for managers is available to assist with FY22 goal planning for staff. The University's approach to performance management is based on the understanding that regular, meaningful conversations between managers and employees lead to better results and higher engagement for everyone. All administrative/professional and support staff at Harvard are encouraged to meet with their managers as frequently as they choose to discuss their work priorities, performance, and developmental needs and aspirations. Managers are expected to proactively schedule and structure these meetings throughout the year to minimize the stress associated with one-time, high stakes, end-of-year performance appraisals. Annual Planning Cycle Although it varies across schools and departments, in general the annual performance management process coincides with the fiscal/academic year and looks like this: Step What Happens 1 Goal/Priorities Typically toward the beginning of the fiscal year, managers and staff sit down to discuss goals and priorities for the upcoming performance period and then document their conversations in the performance management section of PeopleSoft. Ideally, before these conversations occur, departments and teams have set and communicated goals for the year ahead. This makes it easier for managers and employees to discuss how individual priorities and goals align with those of the organization. 2 Competencies The PeopleSoft system allows managers to optionally select competencies for discussion (how work gets done) along with their employees' priorities and goals (what work gets done). Schools and units may choose to identify specific competencies that they consider essential to every employee's performance and impact. Independent of, or in addition to, any school- or unit-wide competencies that have been identified, managers may, in consultation with their employees, select competencies important to their specific role – or they can opt not to include defined competencies in the performance management process. 3 Mid-Year/Ongoing Conversation Ongoing manager/employee conversations – with some schools and units requiring a mid-year discussion – are conducted as frequently as necessary to sustain a high level of clarity in support of employees' success and the best organizational outcomes. Managers and employees may record as many conversations as they wish, using PeopleSoft to share their notes with each other. 4 Feedback At any point during the performance period, schools and units may opt to conduct a feedback process in which employees can nominate and managers can select key stakeholders to offer their perspective on the quality and impact of the employee's work. Feedback can be gathered using the 360° tool in PeopleSoft or simply by gathering comments via email that can be summarized and then cut and pasted into the PeopleSoft system. 5 Annual/Summary At the end of the performance period, managers and employees meet to discuss progress made as well as any changes that may have shifted the priorities and goals discussed at the beginning of the performance period. This last conversation is also documented in PeopleSoft following the conversation. Ratings The University uses a qualitative ratings system that allows managers to assess employees' impact for purposes of making annual compensation decisions that can include merit increases and bonuses. At the end of each performance period, managers are asked to rate their employees' impact, using the following levels and definitions. Compensation decisions for employees represented by a union follow the corresponding contractual agreement in effect. Exceptional Impact Contributions have significant and consistently exceptional impact and value to the department and/or the organization. Makes unique, often one-time achievements that measurably advance progress towards organizational goals and/or result in major improvements. Easily recognized as a role model by high-performing peers. Viewed as an excellent resource to provide expertise, guidance, advice, mentorship or support to others. Demonstrates a range of high-level competencies and actively takes on higher levels of responsibility. Full/Consistent Impact Consistently demonstrates meaningful impact through accomplishments and contributions. This level of impact is reflective of a fully qualified, competent and experienced individual in this role. Viewed as someone who gets the job done and effectively prioritizes work and produces strong results. Contributes positively to the overall objectives of the department and/or the larger organization. Achieves valuable accomplishments in several important areas of the job and/or on assigned projects. Learning/Building Needs to gain proficiency and/or productivity in the position to achieve consistent impact. May achieve some, but not all goals. Stronger or additional knowledge, skills and abilities need to be demonstrated for consistent success in the roles. This rating is recommended for use when an employee is still coming up to speed with their job responsibilities based on limited tenure in the role. Needs Improvement The quality of performance is below expectation for the role. Knowledge, skills, abilities and/or productivity have not been demonstrated at the appropriate levels. Help and Resources If you have any questions, your local Human Resources office can provide more information, support, and access to training. Please click below to explore additional resources produced by the Center for Workplace Development, Faculty of Arts and Sciences HR and other training providers that will help you have more effective and satisfying performance conversations. Center for Workplace Development Classes University Manager Training (for managers only) Becoming a Coaching Manager (University Manager Training is a prerequisite for this course) Making the Most of Feedback Difficult Conversations Managing Up Online Resources Performance and Feedback Conversations High Impact Development Conversations Practical Tips for Coaching Conversations When Performance Conversations are Challenging Making Feedback Work Feedback Essentials Reference Guides Coaching as Conversation: A Guide for Managers Owning Your Own Performance Management: A Guide for All Coaching Conversation Preparation Sheet (from CWD) Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Professional Development Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Our Mission and Offerings Performance Management Related Links Help and Resources for Performance Management Eperformance Ratings Definitions Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement