Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / WORK/LIFE / CARING FOR CHILDREN / Finding Child Care Child care is critical to working parents, and Harvard understands that finding the right fit for your family means considering numerous factors. You are encouraged to review the options below to see which one may best meet your needs. On-Campus Child Care Off-Campus Group Child Care In-home Child Care/Babysitters Nanny Placement Services Nanny Payment Service On-Campus Child Care Allston and Cambridge Six child care centers operate on Harvard’s Cambridge and Allston campuses. Each center has its own characteristics and culture, so families are encouraged to familiarize themselves with information provided below. Feel free to contact any center directly, email the executive director of Campus Child Care, or email the Office of Work/Life. For more information on the Massachusetts Department of Early Education and Care's response to the COVID-19 pandemic, please visit EEC's website. Learn more about the on-campus child care centers: Campus Child Care, Inc. is the independent, nonprofit operator of the child care centers on Harvard's campuses. To learn more about CCC, please visit their website. Application and Enrollment information: Read Work/Life's FAQs for information on the application and enrollment processes and the role of the Harvard affiliation. Read CCC's FAQs for complementary information on application and enrollment, and for detailed information on center policies. Application fees: Find answers to questions specifically about application fees Individual center information: Find contact information, rates, age groups, and schedules and hours. Read about individual centers. Read CCC's FAQs for information on child care center policies, and life in the centers. Changes for 2023: Please note that Peabody Terrace Children's Center will be moving back to its permanent location at 900 Memorial Drive in March of 2023. Please also note that Botanic Gardens Children's Center will be closed for the summer for 2023 for renovation. Online application: You can apply to all six centers via a single online application. We encourage you to read about individual centers before applying. Visiting centers: Due to the COVID-19 crisis, prospective families are not currently allowed to visit centers. Centers have hosted virtual open houses in 2022. If you would like to know more about an individual center, please feel free to contact directors. Harvard Longwood Campus Affiliates of Harvard Medical School, the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, and the Harvard School of Dental Medicine and others on the Harvard Longwood Campus may have access to MASCO-managed Longwood Medical Area child care centers. Off-Campus Group Child Care High-quality, affordable child care is in high demand in the greater Boston area. The following resources are designed to make your search a little easier. Only you know what child care arrangement will be right for your family. We encourage you to review these and other available resources and to carefully consider the safety and appropriateness of any child care provider or setting. If you are a benefits-eligible Harvard employee, you may use the free dependent-care resource and referral service available through Harvard’s Employee Assistance Program. Any member of the general public can get a list of licensed family day care providers and group child care centers in your community, visit the Massachusetts Department of Early Education and Care. Several nonprofit agencies are members of the Massachusetts Child Care Resource and Referral Network and can help you find child care: Child Care Choices of Boston serves Boston, Brookline, Cambridge, Chelsea, Somerville, Revere, and Winthrop. Child Care Circuit serves several towns near Harvard’s campuses including Arlington, Belmont, Medford, Newton, and Watertown, as well as many others. Community Care for Kids serves Braintree, Cohasset, Dedham, Hull, Milton, Needham, Quincy, Randolph, Wellesley, Weston, and Weymouth. In-home Child Care/Babysitters Online search for caregivers through Care @ Work Digital Access: If you are a benefits-eligible Harvard employee, you have unlimited, free access to Care.com, a self-service online database of caregivers. Go here to learn about all of the services available through Care @ Work. Only you know what child care arrangement will be right for your family. We encourage you to review these and other available resources and to consider the safety and appropriateness of any child care provider or setting. Care.com offers a safety center which includes a menu of additional background checks that you can purchase to supplement information supplied by caregivers on the digital platform. Note:You must register before you need it! To use any service provided by Care @ Work, Harvard faculty and staff must first complete and return a waiver. Once the Office of Work/Life receives this waiver, the employee's name is added to an automatic filed feed that goes to Care.com on a daily basis. Go here for more about what Care @ Work offers and detailed information on how to register. Nanny Placement Services Boston Nanny Centre (BNC) provides a range of nanny-placement services to Harvard University affiliate families. BNC nanny-placement services range from comprehensive placement packages to a-la-carte services such as in-depth consultation, thorough background checks, post-hire contract support, and other services. BNC offers Harvard affiliates 10% off any service. You can read more about BNC and their services by visiting their website, reading their description of services and reviewing their price list. Nanny Payment Service However you choose a caregiver, nanny or babysitter, you may have payroll and tax responsibilities. Boston Nanny Centre (BNC) (see above) will refer its clients to firms that can assist with these processes. In addition, through the Care @ Work benefit, benefits-eligible employees have access to HomePay from Care.com. As with all Care.com services, you must first register. To use any service provided by Care @ Work, all Harvard faculty and staff must first complete and return a waiver. Once the Office of Work/Life receives this waiver, the employee's name is added to an automatic filed feed that goes to Care.com on a daily basis. Go here to learn more about services available through Care.com and for detailed instructions on how to register. Once you are pre-registered and have submitted the waiver, you will be directed to Harvard's Care @ Work portal to register once using your Harvard email address. From there, you will be able to learn more and sign up for HomePay services. Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Caring for Elders and Other Adults Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself Connected & Caring Community Military Support Enrollment Openings Limited spots may be available in the six campus child care centers. Interested parents can email Katy Donovan at execdirector@campus-cc.org. On Campus Child Care Frequently Asked Questions If my child doesn’t get a slot in an on-campus child care center or my family doesn't choose to apply to an on-campus child care center, where else should I look? There are several state and local resources that can help you identify other group child care options. Please visit this page to learn more. See also: WorkLife, On Campus Child Care More Contact Us University Office of Work/Life Phone: 617-495-4100 worklife@harvard.edu Longwood Campus Work/Life Programs Phone: 617-432-1048 worklife@hsph.harvard.edu Employee Assistance Program 877-EAP-HARV (877-327-4278) Office of Work/Life Programs and Resources Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement