Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / TOTAL REWARDS / HEALTH & WELFARE BENEFITS / Flexible Spending Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) An FSA allows you to pay predictable, eligible health care expenses or expenses related to the care of a dependent child or adult with pre-tax dollars, lowering your taxable income and saving you money. When electing an FSA, estimate your expenses carefully because any money not used by the annual deadline will be forfeited. Benefit Strategies administers the FSA program for Harvard. If you elect an FSA, Benefit Strategies will provide you with a debit card to pay expenses. (Remember: save your receipts.) You can easily access and manage your FSA from anywhere using the mobile app from Benefit Strategies. You have until March 31 to submit claims for the prior year. FSA options Health FSA With the Health FSA, you can pay for eligible medical, dental, and vision care expenses for you and your eligible dependents. For 2022, you can contribute $120 to $2,750 per calendar year on a tax-free basis. Note: Local 26 members who are enrolled in a Harvard-sponsored medical plan for 2022 receive a $275 contribution from Harvard to a Health FSA. Limited Purpose FSA This FSA lets you pay for out-of-pocket dental and vision care expenses only, and is for those who are enrolled in a high-deductible health plan only. For 2022, you can contribute $120 to $2,750 per calendar year on a tax-free basis. Dependent Care FSA This FSA lets you pay for eligible expenses for the care of a dependent child up to age 13 or a dependent adult. You may contribute up to $5,000, based on IRS guidelines. For additional details, including information on paying for expenses and filing claims, please refer to the FSA/HSA Overview. Benefit Strategies, Harvard claims administrator is largely operating on a work from home basis, so participants are encouraged to use the online portal or mobile app (search for “Benefit Strategies” on your mobile device’s app store) to submit claims and ensure timely service. Health Savings Account (HSA) If you’re enrolled in the Harvard High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) and meet other eligibility requirement, you may contribute to an HSA to cover out of pocket medical expenses today – or save for future expenses. Harvard will make a tax-free contribution to your HSA based on your HDHP election ($500 for individual coverage/$1,000 for employee + spouse/DP, employee + child(ren) or family coverage), in addition to any pre-tax contributions you make (up to annual maximums). Unspent funds roll over from year to year and the money remains yours even when you leave the University. Benefit Strategies administers this benefit for Harvard. If you elect an HSA, Benefit Strategies will provide you with a debit card to pay expenses. You can easily access and manage your HSA from anywhere using the mobile app from Benefit Strategies. You may enroll in an HSA at anytime. Once you elect an HSA, your contributions will continue unless you make a change (or if you leave the HDHP). For additional details, including information on paying for expenses and filing claims and HSA contribution limits, please refer to the FSA/HSA Overview. Total Rewards Compensation Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events – How to Change your Benefits Vendor Contacts Retirement Paid Time Off Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Employee Recognition Enroll or make changes Contact a Provider Related Links FSA Claim Form Online tax-savings calculator and FSA estimator: Estimate how much to save in an FSA based on your expected out-of-pocket costs, and also shows your potential tax savings. Frequently Asked Questions What is an FSA? FSA stands for Flexible Spending Account: An FSA allows you to pay predictable, eligible expenses with pre-tax dollars, lowering your taxable income and saving you money. See also: Benefits, FSA And what is the difference between the Health Care FSA and the Dependent Care FSA? The difference between a Health Care FSA and a Dependent Care FSA is that the Health Care FSA is for eligible health care expenses for you and your eligible dependents, and the Dependent Care FSA is for expenses related to the care of a dependent child or adult (for example, day care). The two are NOT interchangeable. See also: Benefits, FSA What is the difference between a Health Flexible Spending Account and Harvard’s Co-Pay Reimbursement Benefit? Eligible Harvard employees have two types of reimbursement accounts to help cover eligible healthcare expenses. The Flexible Spending Account is an employee-funded, tax-preferred account available to all employees and can be used to cover many kinds of eligible out-of-pocket health expenses; you must enroll in this benefit. The Co-Payment Reimbursement program only covers co-payments above certain thresholds and is only available to employees earning less $95,000; you do not need to enroll in this benefit. See also: Benefits, Total Rewards, Benefits, FSA Learn More By reviewing our brief Flexible Spending Account Overview Want even more details? Check out our Health & Welfare Summary Plan Description (SPD) Contact Us Benefits Office 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 4th floor Cambridge, MA 02138 Call center: 617-496-4001; M, T, Th, F, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; W, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Email: benefits@harvard.edu Fax: 617-496-3000 Medical HUGHP Member Services: 617-495-2008 mservices@huhs.harvard.edu Blue Cross Blue Shield of MA (BCBSMA): 888-389-7732 https://home.bluecrossma.com/ Dental Delta Dental Customer Service: 800-872-0500 Pharmacy Benefit Manager Express Scripts express-scripts.com Benefit Strategies - Harvard's administrator for FSA, Reimbursement Programs https://www.benstrat.com/clients/harvard/ Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement