Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / TOTAL REWARDS / Tuition Assistance Harvard encourages lifelong learning by helping to cover the cost of undergraduate or graduate courses. The Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) assists with classes taken at Harvard. The Tuition Reimbursement Program (TRP) assists with classes taken at other accredited schools. This benefit is a great way to enhance your career or pursue a personal academic interest. TAP and TRP are available to benefits-eligible professional, administrative, support, union and teaching staff. For additional details, including waiting periods for new employees and eligibility based on hours worked, please consult the TAP/TRP Booklet. For additional details, including waiting periods for new employees and eligibility based on hours worked, please consult the Benefits Enrollment Guide for administrative/professional or bargaining unit/union staff, as appropriate. TAP With TAP, classes are only $40 at the Harvard Extension School or 10 percent of the tuition cost at other eligible Harvard schools. This includes the graduate schools of education, government, public health and design, as well as designated programs at some other faculties. Employees may pursue an undergraduate or graduate degree, as well as several graduate certificates at the Harvard Extension School. The Extension School offers hundreds of evening classes and flexible degree programs. A graduate degree or certificate may also be earned through certain TAP-eligible programs at the Graduate School of Education, Harvard Kennedy School and the T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Before enrolling, it's important to review the TAP/TRP Booklet, which has details on waiting periods for new employees; eligibility based on employee group and hours worked; credit limits; participating faculties at Harvard; and how to register. (Please note that you may view a table of contents in the booklet by selecting the bookmark icon in the top margin.) For TAP forms go to Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service. TAP Administration Process and Taxes for Graduate Courses Per IRS standards, TAP benefits for courses that meet all three criteria below will be treated as taxable income: Taken for graduate credit (courses taken for undergraduate credit or for no credit are not taxable); Not related to your current job duties (per the IRS standard); and The total tuition benefits for such courses during a calendar year exceeds $5,250. In such cases, amounts above $5,250 will be reported as income to the employee on the W-2 and the University will withhold taxes on this amount from employee’s pay (employees may choose to pay the full amount of taxes to Harvard Payroll in lieu of withholding). TAP benefits are not taxable if a course is job-related per the IRS standard. Employees may designate a course as job-related when enrolling using a graduate-credit TAP form, by describing the job-related education that will be provided; the completed form must be approved by the supervisor/manager by the semester's TAP form deadline. You can learn more in the Questions and Answers Regarding TAP Process Change. Please refer to the TAP/TRP booklet for the full rules and eligibility. TAP Form Deadline for Summer 2022 Semester TAP forms and manager/supervisor approval for summer 2022 graduate-credit courses that meet the IRS standard of job-relatedness must be submitted no later than July 15, 2022. TRP TRP reimburses employees up to 75 percent of tuition costs (up to 90 percent for HUCTW employees) upon the successful completion of classes at other accredited institutions. There is an annual maximum of $5,250. Classes must be job-related, unless they are taken as part of a program to earn a first undergraduate degree at an accredited institution. For full details on eligibility, waiting periods and registration, please review the TAP/TRP Booklet prior to enrolling in a class. Benefit Strategies, LLC (BSL) administers Harvard’s TRP. For TRP forms and to apply for reimbursement go to the Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service website. Additional Assistance HUCTW staff have access to a separate Education Fund, which can be used to cover seminars and conferences, test preparation course, licensing and accreditation classes and many additional educational and career development needs. For details and application, please see HUCTW website's Education Fund page or call the HUCTW at 617-661-8289. Total Rewards Compensation Health & Welfare Benefits Retirement Paid Time Off Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Employee Recognition Related Forms & Documents TAP TRP Process for Participants Questions and Answers on the TAP Process Changes TAP TRP Process for Managers/Supervisors TAP Job-Relatedness Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Frequently Asked Questions I’ll be eligible for TAP by the time classes begin – can I register for classes and use TAP now? No. In order to register for a class using TAP, you must have met the eligibility and wait period requirements. Before signing up for any class, it is important to review the information found in the TAP booklet; current employees may also learn more on the Tuition Assistance page. See also: Benefits, Homepage, Total Rewards, TAP More Education Assistance Fund Forms HUCTW Education Fund Application HUCTW Education Fund FAQs HUCTW Fund Guidelines Contact Us TAP Program: Harvard Benefits Office - for information on eligibility Call center: 617-496-4001; M, T, Th, F, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; W, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. benefits@harvard.edu TRP Program: Benefits Strategies, LLC 855-HVD FLEX (855-483-3539) hvdtuition@benstrat.com Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service for TAP and TRP forms and to submit reimbursement for TRP Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement