Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / FAQ / Jobs I am interested in temporary employment. How do I apply? Please visit the Harvard HR Temporary Employment website for information on how to be considered for temporary roles at the university. Read more about I am interested in temporary employment. How do I apply? Can I edit my job application once submitted? No. Once an application has been submitted, it cannot be updated or edited. If I upload a new profile in Harvard Careers, will my previously saved information be removed? Yes. Anytime that you click the upload profile button in Harvard Careers, you are indicating to the system that your currently saved profile is outdated. Therefore, the new profile (resume, i.e.) will overwrite any current information and fill those fields with information parsed from the profile you are uploading. If you are just looking to attach your resume to the application, do so on the next page where the system asks for attachments. If you overwrite your profile, you will need most likely need to edit the information to ensure it parsed correctly. No previous profiles can be retrieved. Can I use the back button on my browser to go back in the application to a previous page? No. Once an application has been started, you can only move forward in Harvard Careers. The back button will direct you out of the application (losing any progress) and back to the job description. In order to make edits, continue through the application until you hit the "Review" page. This page allows you to read over all sections of your application and go back to edit any (utilizing the pencil icon button) before submittal. I was a previous Harvard employee, temp, or student worker. Can I access my internal Harvard Careers account? Non-employees, contractors, or temps are unable to access the internal talent gateway. To apply for a job, please create an account on the external talent gateway available here: hr.harvard.edu/search-jobs. If you previously had access to the internal talent gateway and have pending applications, you will be contacted about the status of your candidacy. You must create an external account to apply for future positions. To whom should I address my cover letter? The title of the hiring manager will occasionally be posted on a job description. Unfortunately, we cannot respond to inquiries with specific hiring manager contact information. How many reference letters are required with my application? Unless listed on the job description, reference letters are not required. You may submit this at the time of application to bolster your candidacy, if you wish. References are typically conducted at the conclusion of the recruitment process. How can I request employment verification for Harvard staff? Requests for verification of title and dates of employment and/or income for Harvard staff are administered by The Work Number® which is an automated service that protects your personal information during the verification process. Need Proof of Employment and/or Income Give the person needing proof of your... Read more about How can I request employment verification for Harvard staff? Can I receive feedback on my application? Unfortunately, at this time, we do not provide feedback on individual applications. Please note that you will be contacted regarding the status of your candidacy. I locked myself out of my Harvard Careers account. How do I unlock it? You should use the "forget your username or password" option on the front page of Harvard Careers. We recommend candidates set their security questions carefully, utilizing question/answer combinations they can easily reference later. Note: please be sure to disable any autofill settings or password manager applications, especially if you recently changed your password. You can reset your security questions upon re-entering your account under your Dashboard. If you are unable to unlock your account using your security questions, please email ithelp@... Read more about I locked myself out of my Harvard Careers account. How do I unlock it? 1 of 4 ›› FAQs by department Administrative Fellows Program Benefits Center for Workplace Development Compensation Contingent Workforce Harvard Bridge Program Homepage Jobs Labor and Employee Relations Learning & Development Our Workplace Recognition Recruitment Office Total Rewards Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement