Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / Frequently Asked Questions When does the program start and end? The AFP program generally kicks off with an Orientation in mid- September and ends in June with a Closing Ceremony. I have more than two years of service at Harvard, but have recently changed my job, can I apply as a Resident Fellow? We encourage applicants to have completed at least two years in their current role prior to the start of the program. However, with manager approval and a minimum of 12 months completed in the current role, eligible candidates can apply prior to completing two years in their current role. Do I change my job if accepted as a Resident Fellow? No, Resident Fellows maintain their current positions and participate in a professional development program. Can non-exempt or overtime eligible employees apply to the AFP? No, the AFP is intended for exempt-level mid-career Harvard employees. We recommend other CWD programs such as Leadership Essentials. Read more about Can non-exempt or overtime eligible employees apply to the AFP? Can Visiting Fellowships be all-remote (entirely virtual) assignments? As part of the University's distributed workforce (on-campus and virtual teams), All remote work must be performed in a state in which Harvard is registered to do business (CA, CT, MA, MD, ME, NH, NY, RI, and VT). What is the duration of the Visiting Fellowship assignment? Visiting Fellowships are a minimum of 12-months with some Fellowship roles lasting longer than 12-months, based on the business and funding needs of the hiring department. The terms of the Fellowship role will be listed on the job posting on Harvard Careers. Read more about What is the duration of the Visiting Fellowship assignment? What is the application timeline for the Visiting Fellowships? In May-June, hiring departments interested in recruiting a Visiting Fellow will post their job in Harvard Careers. Candidates will participate in the interview process of phone screening and interviews throughout June and July. The selection of successful candidates will occur in July and August. Departments should plan to hire and onboard their Visiting Fellow before the AFP... Read more about What is the application timeline for the Visiting Fellowships? Do I need a background in education administration to apply for Visiting Fellowships? No, AFP encourages professionals from various backgrounds to bring their unique talents to the field of education. We have Fellows from backgrounds including the professions, education, government, and other areas. What is the salary range for Visiting Fellowships? The salary range varies depending on the individual position requirements but will generally fall in grade levels 56, 57, or 58, exempt. Salary ranges are posted here. Applicants hired as a Visiting Fellow receive the Harvard University benefits package, including vacation time and health, vision, and dental insurance. Read more about What is the salary range for Visiting Fellowships? Can international applicants apply for the AFP program? All applicants must be eligible to work in the United States. Visa sponsorship is not available through this program. 1 of 19 ›› FAQs by department Administrative Fellows Program Benefits Center for Workplace Development Compensation Contingent Workforce Harvard Bridge Program Homepage Jobs Labor and Employee Relations Learning & Development Our Workplace Recognition Recruitment Office Total Rewards Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement