Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / TOTAL REWARDS / RETIREMENT / Employee-funded Retirement Programs The amount of money you will need to live comfortably in retirement depends upon your future expenses and goals for retirement. In order to meet those goals, most people will need to save in addition to any employer and government benefits. Harvard provides several options that let you save additional money for retirement. Tax-Deferred Account (TDA) With two contribution options, TDA allows you to save for retirement and reduce your taxable income – now or in retirement. You may choose either contribution option or divide your contributions between them: With the traditional option, you make contributions before taxes, reducing your taxes today, and your savings aren’t taxed until you withdraw funds. With the Roth option, you make contributions after taxes, your savings grow tax-free and future withdrawals in retirement are tax-free. You decide how much to save, up to the plan limits ($20,500 for 2022, with higher limits for those age 50+), and how to invest from among Harvard’s menu of investment options, including mutual funds and brokerage accounts. Your choices will depend on your personal goals, risk tolerance and knowledge of investing. If you make no choice, your TDA will be directed to Harvard's default investment, a Vanguard target date fund. You can sign up for the TDA as soon as you start working and may change the amount of your contribution and your investment choice at any time. The money in your TDA is always yours. New faculty and administrative/professional staff who make no election are automatically enrolled in the TDA Plan (traditional option) after 60 days of employment, with an initial contribution rate or 3% of salary deducted from pay before taxes that increases by 1 point each January, up to 10% (not to exceed federal contribution limits). Who it’s for: Generally, if you are a University faculty or staff member, you are eligible to participate in the TDA Plan. New faculty and staff will receive information/enrollment package by mail. Learn more: To learn more, we invite you to begin with this recorded TDA overview and review the TDA Information Sheet and the TDA Brochure (union staff) or the TDA Brochure - Auto-Enrollment (for faculty and nonunion staff). View a comparison of some of the features of the Traditional and Roth contribution options. You can also learn about the Roth option and determine if Roth might be right for you in this recorded presentation and the Roth contribution option for TDA brochure. 457(b) Deferred Compensation Plan Allows certain high-earning faculty and staff to set aside a tax-deferred portion of their salary, in addition to TDA deductions. Who it’s for: Employees whose base salary is at least $200,000 (for 2022) and reside in certain states are eligible to enroll in this plan. If you are eligible, you will receive enrollment information from the Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC). To learn more, please review the 457(b) Information Sheet and the 457(b) Highlights and FAQs, which have additional plan details. Total Rewards Compensation Health & Welfare Benefits Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Employee Recognition In The Spotlight New Roth In-Plan Conversion Feature Beginning November 1, 2021, participants holding pre-tax savings in their Harvard University Tax-Deferred Annuity (TDA) Plan may elect to convert any or all of such savings to after-tax (Roth) savings. This is known as a “Roth In-Plan Conversion.” To learn more about this new feature in the TDA, review the Frequently Asked Questions. Access Your Account Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC); 800-527-1398 Contact A Provider TIAA 800-732-8353 Appointments: 866-843-5640 Access Forms Designate/Update Beneficiary TDA Brochure TDA Brochure - Auto-enroll Learn More By reviewing our TDA and 457(b) information sheets and the recorded TDA overview. Want even more details? Check out our Retirement Plans Summary Plan Description (SPD) Contact Us Benefits Office Call center: 617-496-4001; M, T, Th, F, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; W, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Email: benefits@harvard.edu Fax: 617-496-3000 Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement