Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / JOBS / WHY HARVARD / Our Mission and Culture For many people, the most compelling aspect of working at Harvard is the sense of mission and community that permeates every school, department, program, and organization on campus. It’s a vibrant crucible of intellectual activity, research, knowledge creation, learning, and teaching. Here, results matter and creativity flourishes. We’re united by a culture that strives for excellence, but also supports us in our work. As America’s oldest and most venerable institution of higher learning, Harvard’s mission is to advance new ideas and promote enduring knowledge. Since our founding in 1636, Harvard has grown to include 11 degree-awarding schools along with our allied institutions, including the Harvard Radcliffe Institute. Our faculties are unified by common goals of education and research, but each develops leaders and positively impacts the world in its own way. Faculty of Arts & Sciences is dedicated to teaching and learning and fostering cutting edge research and discovery. Harvard Business School educates leaders who make a difference in the world. Harvard School of Dental Medicine develops and fosters a community of global leaders dedicated to improving human health by integrating dentistry and medicine. The Graduate School of Design shapes innovators in design, united in pursuit of a more just, coherent and beautiful world. Harvard Divinity School educates women and men for intellectual leadership, professional service, and ministry in service of a just world. Harvard Graduate School of Education prepares leaders in education and generates knowledge to improve opportunities and outcomes for all learners. Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences discovers, designs and creates novel technologies and approaches to societal challenges in service to the world and our society. Harvard Kennedy School improves public policy and public leadership so that people can lead safer, freer and more prosperous lives. Harvard Law School advances the cause of justice all over the world through excellence and leadership in legal education and scholarship. Harvard Medical School creates and nurtures a diverse, inclusive community dedicated to alleviating human suffering and improving health and well-being for all. Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health advances the public’s health through learning, discovery, and communication. "As the nation’s oldest institution of higher learning, Harvard has a special responsibility to champion intellectual traditions that have defined educated men and women since the dawn of civilization. We do more than deliver a body of knowledge to our students — we expand their humanity. By teaching young people to appreciate what is beautiful in art, society, and nature, we help them to discover what makes life truly worth living." Lawrence S. Bacow President of Harvard University Jobs Search Jobs Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Social https://www.facebook.com/pages/Harvard-University-Jobs/220768101450058?ref=hl https://twitter.com/harvard_careers http://www.linkedin.com/company/1646?trk=edu-cp-sa-cname Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement