Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / WORK/LIFE / CONNECTED & CARING COMMUNITY / Campus Volunteer Opportunities Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University is one of the world's leading centers for the study of plants. Located on 265 acres in Jamaica Plain, this living museum supports research and education programs. Volunteer positions include school guides, interpreters and docents. ARTS FIRST is an annual showcase of student and faculty creativity held at the end of April/beginning of May. Produced by the Office for the Arts at Harvard, the festival is a public event with many free performances and activities. Volunteers help set up, greet audiences, hand out ARTS FIRST guides, and keep venues running smoothly. To volunteer, complete this form. Cambridge School Volunteers is a nonprofit partner of the Cambridge Public Schools that provides academic support to students in grades K to 12. Volunteer opportunities are available at every Cambridge public school throughout the City and are all MBTA accessible. Opportunities are available before, during and after the school day. Family Meals with Harvard Dining Services donates nutritious leftover meals from dining halls to the Cambridge-based organization Food for Free. The meals are directed to people who have limited access to kitchens. Faculty and staff are invited to help any Wednesday by assembling a team of 5-7 people. You're invited for lunch and then to participate in a plate up. East End House is a community center that promotes the well-being, academic achievement, and transition to adulthood of children and youth from under-resourced families. Volunteer needed for homework help after school, assisting with enrichment activities for kids, mentoring middle- and high schoolers, spending time with senior citizens, and in the food pantry. The Family Van is an HMS-affiliated mobile health clinic that provides free health screenings, referrals and counselling to improve the health of residents in Boston's most underserved communities. Volunteers needed with a wide range of interests and backgrounds. If you have questions about volunteering, please email Beatrice Antoine. Fisher Museum at the Harvard Forest, located on 3,000 beautiful acres in Petersham, Mass., depends on a committed group of volunteers to act as docents on Saturdays and Sundays from May through October, and occasionally at other times throughout the year. For information, visit the Volunteer page. Harvard Bridge is an education program for eligible employees who want to improve computer and language skills, take career development classes and/or prepare for the U. S. Citizenship test. Volunteers are needed to tutor Bridge students one-on-one or may provide professional mentorship; email ohr_bridge@harvard.edu to learn more about volunteering. Harvard Film Archive’s public film program offers the opportunity to view international and independent films and to interact with filmmakers and artists. If you would like to volunteer as an usher, contact Brittany Gravely. Harvard Museum of Natural History has a mission to enhance public understanding and appreciation of the natural world, sparking a spirit of discovery in people of all ages. Volunteer Gallery Guides engage visitors through hands-on activities, nature-story readings and other public programs. Harvard Square Homeless Shelter is entirely student- and volunteer-run. You can contribute your time or money to outreach and support services. Host Program for International Students connects foreign graduate students with members of the Harvard community. As a volunteer, you can extend a welcoming hand to students coming to live here and help them get to know the area. (Students do not live with their hosts.) The Peabody Museum of Archeology and Ethnology, part of the Harvard Museums of Science and Culture consortium, needs people-oriented volunteers to help run hands-on programs for families and children using artifacts and craft materials. McLean Hospital, the largest HMS psychiatric facility, offers inpatient and outpatient care for a full range of conditions. Volunteers can work with patients or assist with research and teaching. The Cambridge Health Alliance (CHA) is an academic health care system serving more than 400,000 residents. Volunteers can help in a variety of offices, clinics and patient care areas and those with language skills are needed. The Posse Foundation is a youth leadership development and scholarship program that recruits public high school students to prepare them for college and promote cross-cultural communication. The Posse Foundation seeks writing and career coaches, among other volunteer positions, to assist with pre-collegiate work. (Please note that a bachelor’s degree is required.) Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Mindfulness Caring for Elders and Other Adults Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Adding a Group If you know of a volunteer opportunity you’d like to list here, please contact the web editor. Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement