Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / WORK/LIFE / CONNECTED & CARING COMMUNITY / Community Connections on Campus The following interest groups are open to members of the University (some may be limited to faculty and staff). The ABCD Committee is an informal association of IT managers, programmers, researchers, students and faculty at Harvard and affiliated institutions. Meets monthly. There is also a number of working groups you can join. The Analytics Staff Consortium (ASC) connects professional staff from across Harvard’s central administration and Schools who are analysts and whose work requires analytic expertise. Click here to join! Crimson Toastmasters Club is the way to become a better speaker, while meeting others at Harvard with the same goals. Meets the 1st and 3rd Tuesday of every month from 12:30pm-1:30pm. Please see the Crimson Toastmasters Club website for meeting location information. Harvard Recreation’s Club Program offers the you chance to get fit, have fun and meet others around campus who share your interests. There are more than two dozen clubs ranging from Akido to handball to ultimate Frisbee. While clubs are student-run, in most cases employees are welcome to join. Harvard Neighbors is a University-based volunteer and social organization that enriches the Harvard community through cultural and educational programs and events around Cambridge. Open to all members of the Harvard community and their spouses/partners. The Harvard-Radcliffe Chorus isn’t just for students; staff have been singing in the group since its inception in 1979. Auditions are in September, with limited openings every January. Rehearsals are weekly, and performances are at the end of each semester. Out Played meets weekly at Boylston Hall (Harvard Yard) to play board and card games, while creating a safe and comfortable space for LGBT staff and graduates, as well as allies. Come learn new games and bring your favorites. Contact Wilhelm Engelbrecht with questions. Longwood Toastmasters is a forum for the practice and development of public speaking skills. Meets at Harvard Medical School every other Thursday, 6-7:30 p.m. Harvard University's Employee Resource Groups strive to promote equal opportunity, awareness and understanding of our rich and diverse community that comprise the staff, students and faculty along with networking and social opportunities for employees. Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Mindfulness Caring for Elders and Other Adults Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Adding a Group If you know of an interest group you’d like to list here, please contact the web editor. Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement