Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / POLICIES, FORMS & CONTRACTS / Coronavirus Workplace Policies Harvard continues to place the highest priority on the health, safety and wellbeing of its faculty, staff and students, as well as the wider community. The University has been open throughout the pandemic, even while much of the work has been done remotely. Notably, many members of the Harvard community have been working on campus to sustain the essential services that protect the Harvard campus and community, staff the research enterprise, or support teaching and learning. Others have been working remotely or been on excused absence status. These workplace policies and Return to Campus FAQs are intended to provide guidance and advice about how to sustain productive work, and begin transitioning back to on-campus work in some cases, given these highly disruptive changes. Not every question has been answered, nor every situation anticipated. Please apply them with equal measures of common sense and compassion, consulting with managers, leaders and local HR as needed. The Office of Work/Life provides several programs and resources to support individuals and families during this time of transition. Please also consult Keep Harvard Healthy for updated information on requirements for campus access, health and wellbeing, testing and tracing, and travel guidance. Note that as the University takes steps to relax COVID restrictions and regulations per CDC and Massachusetts and local guidance, some policies and temporary measures have ended. Vaccine As we work to reach the high levels of vaccination needed to protect our community, vaccines are required for all Harvard community members, including faculty, staff and researchers. Exemptions may be provided for medical or religious reasons. Note that unvaccinated people with an approved exemption may be subject to additional public health measures (e.g., masking, testing) above and beyond what is required of vaccinated individuals. Updates and information regarding the University's vaccine requirement can be found at the University's vaccine webpage, and additional details will be provided when available. Consistent with federal guidance, all Harvard employees, including those who are on 100% remote work status, must be fully vaccinated. Individuals who do not have an approved exemption and are not fully vaccinated by January 18, 2022, will begin to face discipline for non-compliance. Continued non-compliance will ultimately result in termination. Employees do not have the option to choose additional testing instead of vaccination. You can submit a copy of your vaccination care via email at mrecords@huhs.harvard.edu or use one of the encrypted options described on the University's Verify Your Vaccine webpage. HUHS keeps individual medical information secure and confidential. Please follow the below guidelines if you need to take time to get the vaccine or manage side effects during regularly-scheduled work hours: Time off for a COVID vaccination during work hours does not require the use of PTO for up to 4 hours per dose, pro-rated based on regularly-scheduled hours, for union-represented staff. Exempt employees will be provided with flexibility in order to receive the vaccine. Staff who have previously used sick time in order to get their COVID vaccine can request a reversal of that used sick time of up to 4 hours per dose, pro-rated based on regularly-scheduled work hours. Union-represented employees should report the time used for a vaccine appointment during work hours as Excused Absence (EA) - Other. HR and managers should also use EA - Other when reversing any previously-taken sick time for a vaccination. All employees who need to take time off to manage the side effects of a vaccine should use sick time. Please notify your manager to request time off for a vaccination appointment, request a reversal of previously used sick time to receive the vaccine, or request sick time for any reaction following vaccination. Additional vaccine information can be found here. Updated 4/2/2022 Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts Coronavirus Workplace Policies Return To Campus Use of Sick Time and Dependent Care Sick Time Overview of Paid Sick Time for Employees Related Links Return to Campus FAQs for Employees Guidance for on-campus activity Harvard coronavirus news and information Harvard FAQs Harvard University Health Services COVID-19 Info and Updates Flexwork at Harvard policy and guidelines Guidance for Alternate Work Arrangement Requests Payroll Processes for Summer and Fall 2021 Harvard travel guidance Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Contact Us Local Human Resources Offices Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement