Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / WORK/LIFE / CONNECTED & CARING COMMUNITY / Solving Workplace Problems Harvard offers a wide range of problem-solving resources to help you deal with a variety of workplace situations. These resources provide both formal avenues for addressing issues as more informal opportunities to get information or find a person with whom you can speak confidentially. Most workplace problems can be addressed within your own unit by working with your manager and/or local HR office. Union employees may seek advice from their union representative. If local efforts to resolve workplace issues fail, the collective bargaining agreement for each employee group outlines formal problem-solving processes. Nonunion staff will find the formal problem-solving process in the University's Personnel Manual. Directory of problem-solvers Harvard University Anonymous Reporting Hotline The University Anonymous Reporting Hotline allows Harvard employees to anonymously report violations of ethics, integrity, compliance issues or other irregular business practices. To allow for anonymity, when you call the hotline you will speak with a third-party representative who will report your question or concern to University management for review and follow-up. You are also able to report concerns via a secure third-party website. Whether you call or make a report via the web, you will be provided with a report number to allow you to obtain updates or to provide additional information without revealing your identity. Call 877-694-2275 or go to www.integrity-helpline.com/HarvardUniversity.jsp for more information. Local Offices of Human Resources In most cases, if you are experiencing a problem at work that you can’t resolve with your manager/supervisor, you can consult your school/department office of human resources. Professionals there can advise you, explain University and department policies, answer questions about rights and responsibilities, and help resolve conflicts. They can also refer you to other helpful services. Local HR Offices Harvard's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The professionals at Harvard's Employee Assistance Program provide free and confidential support to all faculty, staff and their household members and help find solutions for a wide range of workplace or personal issues. Harvard’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Labor and Employee Relations Labor and Employee Relations negotiates and administers the University’s collective bargaining agreements and provides advice, counsel and training to HR officers, supervisors and staff members on a range of employment-related issues. Labor and Employee Relations 124 Mt. Auburn Street Suite 480 South Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 617-495-2786 University Disability Resources Harvard University Disability Resources serves faculty, staff and students dealing with disability issues on campus and in the workplace. Your local HR office can connect you with these services. The office ensures access for all persons with disabilities, serves as a resource for information and problem solving on disability issues, and raises awareness in the Harvard community. University Disability Resources staff provide assistance to employees, departments, HR offices and union representatives with disability issues, such as transitioning back to work after disability, reasonable accommodations and adherence to the ADA, and education on the prevention of workplace injuries. Reasonable Accommodation Request Form Reasonable Accommodations Fact Sheet You can learn more about these services on the office's website. Harvard University Disability Resources Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900. | 617-495-1859 | TTY: 617-496-0466 | Fax: 617-495-8520 | disabilityservices@harvard.edu University Ombudsman Office The University Ombudsman Office provides all members of the Harvard community with a neutral and confidential place to explore options for solving workplace or academic problems that may not be able to be resolved using normal channels. The ombudsman can help evaluate the issues and develop resolution. She does not advocate for any individual or group and keeps no notes or individual records. The ombudsman can help with conflicts with a colleague or manager, managing difficult staff, inappropriate or disrespectful behavior, performance management, grievance and complaint procedures, and resources available to Harvard faculty and staff. University Ombudsman Office 44R Brattle Street, 117-118 Cambridge, MA Email: university_ombudsman@harvard.edu Phone: 617-495-7748 Harvard Medical Area Ombuds Office The Harvard Medical Area Ombuds Office assists faculty, staff and students in the Longwood Medical Area, and Harvard appointees experiencing conflict at affiliated institutions. The ombudsperson is a neutral party working to ensure that people are treated fairly and equitably. The ombuds office can help with issues such as academic or research disputes, misuse of power, sexual harassment, discrimination, professional misconduct and personal conflicts. The office provides a safe forum to voice concerns, evaluate situations and decide next steps. Options range from simply talking, to pursuing a formal grievance internally or externally. 164 Longwood Avenue, 1st Floor Boston, MA Office: 617-432-4041 Confidential fax: 617-432-0586 Title IX Office The University is committed to responding promptly and effectively when it learns of any form of possible discrimination based on sex. The University responds to reports of sexual harassment, including sexual violence, as part of its efforts to stop the harassment and prevent its recurrence of possible sex discrimination. An individual who has questions or concerns regarding possible discrimination based on sex should contact their local Title IX Coordinator or the Title IX Office. More resources and information can be found in the Resource Guide. Members of the Harvard community can anonymously submit disclosures of sexual and/or gender-based harassment to the Title IX Office, using the Anonymous Disclosure Form. Office for Dispute Resolution The University has designated grievance procedures designed to provide prompt and equitable methods of investigation and resolution to stop discrimination, remedy and harm, and prevent its reoccurrence. The Office for Dispute Resolution (“ODR”) has been charged with implementing the procedures for students, staff, and in some cases, faculty, pursuant to the University-wide Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Policy. You can find information about the policy, resources and procedures for filing a complaint by visiting the office's website. Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Mindfulness Caring for Elders and Other Adults Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement