Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / WORK/LIFE / Employee Assistance Program Harvard's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) offers free, confidential help for all Harvard employees and their adult household members. You can reach the EAP any time for personal or work-related concerns at 877-EAP-HARV (877-327-4278). Explore this section for specific ways in which the EAP can help. You can also visit the EAP online. Information on KGA's website and the benefits of registering can be found here. A demonstration of the website can be found here. KGA offers immediate support for any type of emotional issue. Call any time -- seven days a week, day or night -- to speak with a trained counselor. KGA also provides a wide variety of work/life consultations including financial, legal, nutrition, elder care, child care, and career support during standard business hours. The hours are Monday – Thursday 8:30-5:30 PM and Friday 8:30-5:00 PM. Please note that KGA offices are closed on New Year’s Day, MLK Day, Presidents Day, Memorial Day, Easter, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, the day after Thanksgiving, and Christmas. Remember that even when KGA is closed, 24/7 support for any emotional issue is still available by a counselor who is experienced in crisis intervention and can help you or help you assist someone else. Call 877-EAP-HARV (877-327-4278). The EAP can provide help anywhere. Whether you want to meet with an EAP consultant or other provider in Harvard Square, another local community, or another part of the country, the program taps into a broad network of resources. Personal Problems Whether you're struggling with worry, self-doubt, career concerns or anything else, the trained specialists at the EAP offer immediate assistance and will connect you to whatever resources you may need. No concern is too big or too small. You can discuss whatever is on your mind with trained counselors who will listen closely, offer support and discuss your options. Harvard’s EAP is available 24 hours a day, every day. Call 877-EAP-HARV (877-327-4278) for free, expert, confidential consultation or for a referral to an experienced professional near your work or home. After-hours calls will be answered by a counselor experienced in crisis intervention who can help you or help you assist someone else. Mental Health & Crisis Care Harvard’s EAP is available to help you and your household members 24 hours a day, every day. Call for free, expert, confidential consultation or for a referral to a professional near your work or home. After-hours calls will be answered by a counselor experienced in crisis intervention who can help you or help you assist someone else. Whether it’s just a rough patch or something more serious, the EAP offers the support you need. Many problems can be resolved through short-term counseling. Otherwise, you and your counselor together can find the additional resources to address your particular concern. Call the EAP at 877-EAP-HARV (877-327-4278) for free advice on: A case of the blues Concerns about depression Stress and anxiety, at home or work Family problems Addiction and gambling More specific concerns Legal & Financial Problems Legal Advice Harvard's EAP gives you access to expert legal advice. You and any member of your household can have a free, confidential phone consultation with a lawyer. After the consultation, if you wish to retain legal representation, the EAP will refer you to an attorney who may provide services at a 25 percent discount.* Whether you are wondering how to tackle a legal question, help a family member or prepare for the next phase of your life, the EAP can help. Common topics include, but are not limited to: Real estate, lease and landlord Separation, divorce and custody Tax, inheritance and estate planning Elder care planning and management *Legal advice and consultations will not be provided for: 1) employment-related matters, including employee or statutory benefits; 2) matters involving the employer, KGA Inc. and affiliates; 3) appeals and class actions; 4) frivolous or unethical matters; 5) matters for which an attorney-client relationship exists prior to the participant becoming eligible for benefits. Regarding employment-related matters, KGA will refer a participant to an outside legal resource if requested. If a participant wishes to retain legal representation, KGA will refer the participant to an attorney who may provide services at a 25 percent discount. This is not a guarantee of the least expensive attorney. Should the participant retain an attorney through a KGA referral, he/she is doing so outside the EAP services provided through the employer and the participant is responsible for all fees and costs associated with legal services. Financial Advice Several kinds of financial planning assistance are available through the EAP. Budget and debt counseling can help you see where your money goes; free, impartial planning advice and services can set you on track to reach long-term goals; and investment advice may help you plan for college expenses, retirement and more. Workplace & Coworker Problems Harvard’s EAP can help you with concerns about any workplace issue. You can call the EAP for advice if you are worried about a coworker or manager’s behavior or state of mind, or for a consultation if you need impartial help thinking through a difficult workplace problem. The EAP’s expert consultants, trained in interpersonal and organizational behavior, can confer with you over the phone, free of charge, and can refer you to other resources if necessary. Services are confidential. Problems with Drugs, Alcohol or Gambling You and your household members have access to confidential expertise, over the phone and in person, to help you understand the difference between use, abuse and addiction and get support for dealing with these and related challenges. Whether you are worried about yourself or a child, spouse, partner, other relative, friend or coworker, Harvard’s EAP can help with concerns around: Alcohol Prescription or street drugs Gambling Sexual activity Shopping Eating Smoking Grief & Loss Harvard’s EAP can guide and support you through the challenges surrounding loss and grief, and help you find the strength you need, whether it comes from within you or from outside resources. The grieving process has common features for everyone, as well as aspects unique to each individual. When loss hits hard—whether it’s the loss of a family member, friend, coworker or pet—the consultants at the EAP can guide you through the ways grief is expressed: Trouble focusing on work Difficulty relaxing with friends or family Difficulty taking care of yourself or someone who depends on you Feelings of sadness, depression and guilt Consultation for Managers Harvard’s EAP can help managers concerned about workplace issues. You can call the EAP for advice if you are worried about an employee’s behavior or state of mind, or if you need impartial help thinking through a sensitive supervisory problem. The EAP’s expert consultants, trained in interpersonal and organizational behavior, can confer with you over the phone, free of charge, and can refer you to other resources if necessary. Services are confidential. Work/Life Resources Harvard’s EAP offers a wide range of services and solutions to the challenges of daily life. EAP consultants can help you figure out your next steps, and refer you to local resources. Examples include: Dependent care search– Help making decisions and identifying resources to care for elders and children Health and Wellness support – Nutrition and sleep coaching, fitness resources Locating local services – Options for transportation, housing, moving, pet services And much more: See the EAP’s list of services for detailed information Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Mindfulness Caring for Elders and Other Adults Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself Connected & Caring Community Military Support Related Forms & Documents EAP Brochure EAP Brochure (Spanish language version) EAP List of Services Spanish List of EAP Services EAP: A Valuable Tool For Managers Frequently Asked Questions Where can I go if I am worried about a coworker or a household member? Harvard’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) can help with both personal and workplace concerns. The EAP offers immediate, free, and confidential help for all Harvard employees and their household members. If you are eligible for these services, you can reach the EAP any day, at any time for personal or work-related concerns about yourself, family, friends, or coworkers; contact information may be found on HARVie. For more information about the wide range of services available through an EAP, please go here. See also: WorkLife, Employee Assistance Program More Contact Us University Office of Work/Life Phone: 617-495-4100 worklife@harvard.edu Longwood Campus Work/Life Programs Phone: 617-432-1048 worklife@hsph.harvard.edu Employee Assistance Program 877-EAP-HARV (877-327-4278) Office of Work/Life Programs and Resources Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement