Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT / Courses | How to Register New Course! Enriching Engagement and Preventing Burnout Two-hour live virtual workshop that is designed to give staff a unique opportunity to assess personal levels of burnout and its impact on their engagement. Staff will identify contributing factors and learn strategies to mitigate them, gaining greater work-life balance and better tools to promote a sense of wellbeing. Upcoming Dates are February 11, March 1, and May 18 from 10am-12pm. This class is available to Harvard benefits-eligible faculty, post-docs and staff at no cost. Learn more about the Enriching Engagement and Preventing Burnout workshop. The Center for Workplace Development (CWD) provides a wide variety of courses aimed at helping you build practical skills that can help you in your current role and support your long-term career development. CWD offers live, instructor-led workshops as well as online learning options. You can explore other online learning through LinkedIn Learning and Harvard ManageMentor. Open to all benefits-eligible employees, most programs are held at the Center for Workplace Development located at 124 Mt. Auburn Street, Third Floor, Cambridge, MA. Some courses are also offered on the Harvard Longwood Campus. View the current course schedule. Registering for Courses The hub for university-wide compliance and professional development training, the Harvard Training Portal is where you’ll find course details—including locations, dates, and requirements—and register for courses, using your HarvardKey. Before registering, be sure to consult with your manager, as some courses require a fee. Once registered, you’ll receive emails confirming your enrollment or wait-list status and reminding you about your class start date. Canceling your Registration To avoid a cancellation fee, you must cancel at least three days prior to the course start date. For example, you must cancel by Monday for a class on Friday to avoid the cancellation fee. To cancel your registration, simply locate the course on your “ME” page in the Harvard Training Portal. Next to the course name, select “Drop” from the “Actions” drop-down list. Please note that you cannot use the portal to drop a class after the three-day deadline; instead, contact training@harvard.edu. Registering While on Leave If you are on a leave of absence and unable to enroll in a course, but anticipate returning from leave in time to attend (and being able to complete any pre-work in advance), please contact training@harvard.edu for assistance in registering. If you want to enroll in a course that takes place while you are on leave, please contact your local HR officer or Leave Specialist. Please note that some types of leave preclude an employee from attending CWD classes. Requesting Accessibility Accommodations If you would like to request accommodations, please email training@harvard.edu or call 617-495-4895 prior to your course date. More Ways to Learn In addition to courses, the CWD offers a range of professional development programs, including the Bridge program, the leadership development program, career development support and classes, free online tutorials from LinkedIn Learning, and free, on-demand skill building resources from Harvard ManageMentor (HarvardKey required). Harvard HR also offers courses on mindfulness and retirement planning, which can be found on the Harvard Training Portal. Managers and team members alike will appreciate the Working Remotely courses on the Harvard Training Portal, a curated collection of LinkedIn Learning courses with tips on how to increase productivity and stay connected while working from home. Note on Training Time for HUCTW Members If you are a member of HUCTW, your requests for time away from regular work duties to participate in professional development may not be unreasonably denied. Employees who participate in job-related or development-oriented training programs during work hours should be paid for those hours, and should not be required to make up those hours at another time. [HUCTW Agreement, p.13] Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Professional Development Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Our Mission and Offerings Performance Management In The Spotlight July - August 2022 CWD course calendar Interactive! Learn something new today! A Look Inside CWD: Nada – grabbing the chance to learn and grow Using the driving force of the Center for Workforce Development, newer employee, Nada El-Newahy, is highly effective in her role. Read more Contact Us Center for Workplace Development 124 Mt. Auburn St., Third Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 Email: training@harvard.edu Phone: 617-495-4895 Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement