Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / JOBS / TALENT ACQUISITION AND DIVERSITY / Administrative Fellows Program Harvard University's Administrative Fellowship Program (AFP) is one of the cornerstones of our diversity and inclusion efforts. Launched in 1989, the program seeks talented, mid-career professionals (in particular, members of historically underrepresented groups) to promote leadership opportunities and careers in higher education. The University encourages applications from individuals from diverse backgrounds and others who may contribute to Harvard's leadership. To this end, the Administrative Fellowship Program offers a leadership experience complemented by a professional development program. The program is structured to provide fellows with: exposure to and engagement with senior leadership in higher education reflection and self-assessment, career growth and development multiple professional networking opportunities unique and valuable experience working in the Harvard University environment The program offers two types of Fellowships: Visiting and Resident. Visiting Fellows are professionals from business, government, education, and other professions who seek an opportunity to expand their professional experiences by working in an academic environment as a mid-level administrator. Candidates who meet the qualifications are invited to apply for a specific AFP job opening in a school or unit throughout the University. Positions vary based on the need for particular school/unit. All available AFP positions will be posted on Harvard Careers. Successful candidates will be offered an appointment between 1-2 years with hiring department, based on funding and need. Resident Fellows are current Harvard exempt employees who are mid-career administrators (see requirements below) and identify as members of a historically underrepresented population. Resident Fellows are highly motivated to pursue career and leadership development at Harvard. In addition to carrying out their position duties, all fellows participate in seminars, workshops, lectures, formal discussions, and learn through case studies. As a complement to the learning series, fellows receive a career coach and participate in mentoring circles. The program provides participants with opportunities to increase their knowledge, become familiar with day-to-day systems and operations, and to develop University-wide networks. AFP Program Content & Design: During the fellowship, visiting and resident fellows participate in: Program Orientation: In September 2022, a Harvard senior leader will provide welcome remarks.. Fellows receive a program overview, insights from a panel of AFP alums, and an opportunity to meet and greet members of the cohort and engage in Q&A. Educational and Professional Development Seminars: Seminar and workshops usually occur twice every month. Fellows are expected to prepare and actively participate in these discussions, projects, and activities. Each fellow is assigned to introduce a speaker and collaborate with his/her fellows to maximize that particular learning experience. Coaching and Mentoring: Fellows have a career coach to support their professional development goals and actively participate in mentoring circles every 3-4 weeks facilitated by the AFP alumni. Networking: Fellows individually meet with the Center for Workplace Development program staff, HR recruiters, and former alumni who are members of the Harvard University staff and may be invited to attend special events sponsored by Harvard Human Resources. Check-Ins and Evaluations: Sponsors, fellows, coaches, and mentors provide critical feedback through surveys and focus groups on the program's effectiveness throughout the year. Closing Ceremony: In June 2023, the Administrative Fellowship Program celebrate its conclusion by awarding certificates of completion to fellows. Harvard senior leaders, deans, administrators, seminar speakers, sponsors, alumni, colleagues, and friends and family members are welcome to attend. Application Process for Visiting Fellows – 2022-2023 Program March 2022 -- Invitation opens for proposals from schools or united interested in sponsoring visiting fellows for FY23. March 18, 2022 I 3pm -- Virtual Information session for Harvard schools, units, department heads, or hiring managers interested in sponsoring a visiting fellow. April 8, 2022 - Proposals from schools or units interested in sponsoring visiting fellows due to AFP May 2022 -- Confirmation of AFP Visiting fellows partnerships with participating departments May – July 2022 - Open positions for visiting fellows will be posted on Harvard Careers and highlighted on the side panel of this page. Interviews will be conducted by local hiring committees in collaboration with the AFP Program Manager July – September 2022 – Visiting fellows hired and onboarded by local departments September 2022 – AFP Program Orientation (all participants are required to attend). Application Process for Resident Fellows – 2022-2023 Program Resident fellows are current full-time exempt-level Harvard employees and identify as members of a historically underrepresented population. Resident Fellows reflect the diverse, emerging leadership potential for outstanding mid-career professionals who are highly motivated to pursue career growth and leadership at Harvard. The intense interest in the program, the number of applications, and the optimum size of the cohort make the selection process highly competitive. The process and timeline is as follows: The employee submits an application, which is vetted for eligibility. (Ineligible applicants are notified and encourage to reapply in the future.) CWD obtains references from the applicants’ immediate supervisor and human resources representative. The AFP Review Committee (comprised of human resource professionals and former AFP fellows) select the 2022-2023 Resident Fellows based on the strength of the application and interview. The final selected Resident Fellows are announced in August 2022. The program beings September 2022. Minimum Requirements to be considered as a Resident Fellow. Employee must: Be currently employed at Harvard in an exempt, full-time, benefits eligible role Have a minimum of five years of professional work experience Have completed a minimum of two years of administrative experience in the current position at the start of the program Baccalaureate degree or higher Be in good HR standing Be able to commit 70-80 hours for active participation in the program We strongly encourage resident fellow applicants to speak with their managers about their interest in the AFP prior to applying. Application deadline: May 20th, 2022 Application Documents: A written statement of purpose (600 words max) explaining: Why do you want to join the Administrative Fellowship Program at this point in your career? What do you hope to get out of AFP? What are your career and leadership goals? What are your professional achievements and experience? How have you demonstrated commitment to supporting diversity, inclusion, and belonging? A current resume Selection Timeline for Resident Fellows: April 2022 - Applications for resident fellows open. You can access and submit your application here. April 26, 2022 | 11am – AFP Virtual Information Session # 1 Registration link HERE May 5, 2022 | 3pm - AFP Virtual Information Session # 2 Registration link HERE May 20, 2022 - Application deadline for resident fellows May - June 2022 – Interviews and selection process for resident fellows July 2022 – Selection decisions for FY22 resident fellows announced September 2022 –AFP Program Orientation (for all fellows and sponsors) Jobs Search Jobs Why Harvard Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Recruitment Resources for Veterans, Service Members, and Military Spouses Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Fellows Open Visiting Fellows Positions Administrative Fellow (Talent Acquisition Partner), SEAS Frequently Asked Questions I have more than two years of service at Harvard, but have recently changed my job, can I apply as a Resident Fellow? We encourage applicants to have completed at least two years in their current role prior to the start of the program. However, with manager approval and a minimum of 12 months completed in the current role, eligible candidates can apply prior to completing two years in their current role. See also: Administrative Fellows Program, Resident Fellowship More Contact Us 124 Mt. Auburn Street, 3rd Floor, Cambridge, MA 02138 Email: afp@harvard.edu Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement