Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home PeopleSoft O&I Classifieds Training Portal Contingent Workforce Search 573afce095134b6b933403ff00bbab3c Jobs Search Jobs How to Apply for a Job Temporary Employment Career Mobility Why Harvard Our Mission and Culture Our Total Rewards Harvard's Schools and Departments Diversity & Inclusion Innovation Sustainability Talent Acquisition and Diversity Inclusive Hiring Initiative Resources for Veterans Summer Youth Employment Program Administrative Fellows Program Total Rewards Compensation Salary Ranges Job Changes Administrative and Professional Job Descriptions Health & Welfare Benefits Medical Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts Disability and Life Insurance Reimbursement Programs Retiree Health Life Events Vendor Contacts Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Holiday Calendar Leaves of absence Massachusetts Paid Family and Medical Leave Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Fitness & Wellness Employee Recognition Service Recognition Harvard Heroes Program Retirement Gifts Learning & Development Courses | How to Register Resilience, Recovery, and Renewal Managing Now Professional Development Harvard Bridge Program Harvard Internal Professional Pathways Harvard Senior Administrator Fellowships for Executive Education Leadership Development Universal Manager Training Program Organizational Development Consulting Senior Team and Executive Coaching Career Development Elements of a successful career Resources for Internal Candidates Networking Applying for a job as an internal candidate Our Mission and Offerings CWD Stories Performance Management Work/Life Employee Assistance Program Caring for Children Finding Child Care Back-up Care, Babysitters School-Aged Children Disability Resources Camps and School Vacation Options Financial Assistance for Child Care Adoption Resources Lactation Support, Parenting Supports Mindfulness Ten Percent Happier app Caring for Elders and Other Adults Senior Care Planning Flexwork at Harvard Caring for Yourself LBGTQIA Issues/Concerns Domestic Violence Connected & Caring Community Campus Volunteer Opportunities Community Connections on Campus Solving Workplace Problems Military Support Policies, Forms & Contracts University Policies Staff Personnel Manual Forms & Documents Union Contracts HUCTW Generic Job Descriptions Coronavirus Workplace Policies HOME / TOTAL REWARDS / RETIREMENT / Retirement Programs Harvard offers generous retirement benefits to help you build long-term savings and a source of income when you retire. These plans are funded by the University and you elect how to invest the contributions Harvard makes on your behalf (for all or part of your plan) from among a carefully selected menu of low-cost options. Two months before your meet your plan’s participation waiting period, you will receive an information package from the Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) with information on participation and investment options. Summary of University-funded Retirement Plans Depending upon your employment type, you may be eligible for: The Faculty Plan Harvard contributes, on a monthly basis, an amount equal to a percentage of your salary based on your age and earnings to the 1973 Retirement Income Plan for Teaching Faculty. You are enrolled automatically once you’ve completed a six-month waiting period, with retroactive contributions. For those under age 40, the University contributes an amount equal to 5% of salary up to the Social Security wage base, and 10% of salary above the Social Security wage base ($147,000 in 2022). For those age 40 and over, the University contributes an amount equal to 10% of salary up to the Social Security wage base, and 15% of salary above the Social Security wage base. Who it’s for: * Those who are at least age 21 and hold a professorial appointment or, if your primary appointment is as a member of the teaching faculty, carry at least a half-time teaching appointment. To learn more, please review the Faculty Retirement Plan information sheet and view the recorded Faculty Retirement Plan overview. The 2001 Staff Plan Harvard contributes, on a monthly basis, an amount equal to a percentage of your salary based on your age and earnings. You are enrolled automatically once you’ve completed a six-month waiting period, with retroactive contributions. For those under age 40, the University contributes an amount equal to 5% of salary up to the Social Security wage base, and 10% of salary above the Social Security wage base ($147,000 in 2022). For those age 40 and over, the University contributes an amount equal to 10% of salary up to the Social Security wage base, and 15% of salary above the Social Security wage base. Who it’s for: Members of the administrative and professional staff, non-bargaining unit support staff or HUCTW on a regular payroll, working at least 17.5 hours a week or 1,000 hours a year. To learn more, please review the 2001 Staff Plan information sheet and view the recorded 2001 Staff Plan overview. The 1995 Staff Plan Harvard contributes to two accounts on your behalf: a Basic Retirement Account, maintained by the University, and an Individual Investment Account, in which you choose the investments. You are enrolled automatically after a one-year waiting period. Who it’s for: Hourly employees who are members of HUPD, HUSPMGU or HUPD who are on a regular payroll who work at least 17.5-20 hours per week, depending upon union; for details on eligibility, please refer to your union contact. To learn more, please review the 1995 Staff Plan information sheet and view the recorded 1995 Staff Plan overview. ATC members are covered by a separate retirement fund administered by their union. For more information, ATC members should contact the Central Pension Fund at 202-362-1000. Beneficiaries You should designate a beneficiary to receive your retirement savings in the case of your death. Beneficiaries should be reviewed periodically, and updated to reflect any family or personal changes. Total Rewards Compensation Health & Welfare Benefits Retirement Retirement Programs Employee-funded Retirement Programs Investment Options Retirement Education & Planning Resources Preparing for Retirement Paid Time Off Tuition Assistance Commuting and Transportation Employee Discounts and Perks Employee Recognition In The Spotlight New Roth In-Plan Conversion Feature Beginning November 1, 2021, participants holding pre-tax savings in their Harvard University Tax-Deferred Annuity (TDA) Plan may elect to convert any or all of such savings to after-tax (Roth) savings. This is known as a “Roth In-Plan Conversion.” To learn more about this new feature in the TDA, review the Frequently Asked Questions. Access Your Account Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC); 800-527-1398 Contact A Provider TIAA 800-732-8353 Appointments: 866-843-5640 Plan Beneficiaries Read more about designating retirement plan and life insurance beneficiaries for your benefits. Learn More By reviewing our Faculty Retirement Plan, 2001 Staff Plan and 1995 Staff Plan information sheets. Recorded overviews of retirement programs: Faculty Retirement Plan 1995 Staff Plan 2001 Staff Plan Want even more details? Check out our Retirement Plans Summary Plan Description (SPD) Contact Us Benefits Office Call center: 617-496-4001; M, T, Th, F, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; W, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Email: benefits@harvard.edu Fax: 617-496-3000 Administrator Tools Harvard Careers (HR Users) Fieldglass Oracle | Financial Systems HR Analytics HR Intranet Employee Tools Harvard Careers (Job Openings/Applications) Benefit Strategies Employee Assistance Program Harvard Directory HarvardKey Harvard Training Portal Harvard University Retirement Center (HURC) HARVie Classifieds & Conversations LinkedIn Learning Express Scripts (Pharmacy Benefit) Outlook Web App Zoom at Harvard Transit Ordering Platform Tuition Program (TAP/TRP) Self Service PeopleSoft My Harvard Total Rewards Harvard Link Events FAQs Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy f8f975513d145b5b186c7391342120dd 29291d311b8d0d7b58f139512eaa3694 fc9a13032bacb87c40ba60137dc06d7c fullstory Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement