Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri Tactical Menu Policies Ask HR Contact Us Departmental Processing Search search Office of Human Resources Main navigation menu Jobs Job Openings Why Mizzou? About Columbia Eligibility for Union Positions Application Help Pay & Benefits Payroll Benefits & Retirement Time Off & Leave Employee Assistance Program Training & Performance Training & Development Performance Appraisals Workplace Support Accessibility & Accommodations Flexible Work & Remote Operations Veterans and Military Workplace Conflict Code of Conduct Income and Employment Verification About HR About the Office of Human Resources Centers of Expertise HR Partners MyHR Job Openings Breadcrumb Home Job Openings Discover what matters with us. Mizzou is a world-renowned educational and research institution, and our first-rate faculty, staff and students are part of something big. If you’re looking for a vibrant community that offers endless opportunities to grow and make a difference throughout our state, the nation and the world, our university may be the place for you. Innovative research, creative scholarship, connection, collaboration, lifelong learning and lots of opportunity—Mizzou has it all. Executive Searches The recruitment team conducts executive searches for key positions within the system's central administrative offices, as well as some campus leadership roles. Access current executive searches Academic & Staff Positions Access opportunities for: Academic positions: Prospective employees Current University of Missouri employees Staff positions: Prospective employees Current University of Missouri employees Student workers The following resources can help students identify and apply for open positions: eRecruit – Internal, systemwide Hire Mizzou Tigers – Campus jobs and external positions recruiting MU students and alumni Temporary positions After registering and logging in with our application system, search and apply for SOS temporary staffing opportunities using job ID(s): Clerical - 37780 Non-clerical - 37883 Application Help Get guidance and answers to frequently asked questions, including technical information on the use of our application system, by visiting our Application Help webpage. Application Help Equal Opportunity Employment The University of Missouri is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. MU Logo University of Missouri Contact Office of Human Resources 801 Conley Avenue, 15 Jesse Hall, Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7976 Email: muhr@missouri.edu Job Openings New Employees SOS Temporary Staffing Code of Conduct Benefits & Retirement Training & Development Accessibility & Accommodations Departmental Processing Ask HR MyHR Policies Contact Us MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy