Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Human Resources Office of the Executive Vice President Employment Benefits & Compensation Professional Development Well-Being & Culture Home Contact Search Menu Well-Being & Culture The University of Notre Dame strives to steward our mission and cultivate a culture of Well-Being where staff and faculty can thrive. Well-Being & Culture The University of Notre Dame strives to steward our mission and cultivate a culture of Well-Being where staff and faculty can thrive. Working at Notre Dame is so much more than just a job. Our mission is to transmit knowledge through teaching and mentoring, to foster the discovery of knowledge through research and scholarship, and above all, to support the holistic formation of our students - intellects, hearts and souls. We seek to foster the University's mission through superb stewardship of its human, physical and financial resources. The University strives to cultivate an environment where we can all be at our best. We do so by caring for the Well-Being of those who work here, celebrating our employees who embody our core values, living out our Spirit of Inclusion, offering Accessibility and Accommodations in the workplace, and guarding the way we do things through our ND Voice survey and conflict resolution and corrective action processes and policies. Emotional Spiritual Social Physical Financial WELL-BEINGfor Life Well-Being For Life The University of Notre Dame’s Office of Human Resources strives to offer resources and opportunities to help staff and faculty achieve a state of optimal well-being. Learn more about the opportunities available to you. Well-Being for Life News More News Heather Christophersen, Anne Griffith appointed to VP positions May 26, 2022 Worried about the baby formula shortage? Summus can help! May 20, 2022 Reminder: Performance Reviews Due May 13th May 10, 2022 Home Employment Benefits & Compensation Professional Development Well-Being & Culture Well-Being for Life Diversity & Inclusion Awards & Recognition ND Voice Notre Dame Wellness Center Employee Issue Resolution News Events Well-Being for Life Diversity & Inclusion Awards & Recognition ND Voice Notre Dame Wellness Center Employee Issue Resolution News Events Knowledge Hub Contact Us Office of the Executive Vice President Human Resources 200 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5900 askhr@nd.edu Contact Us Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports Hours of Operation are Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., closed on University holidays. © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn