Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Human Resources Office of the Executive Vice President Employment Benefits & Compensation Professional Development Well-Being & Culture Home Contact Search Menu Benefits & Compensation Our comprehensive benefits and compensation package is inspired by the desire to provide stability to our staff and faculty so they can focus on what matters most. Benefits & Compensation Our comprehensive benefits and compensation package is inspired by the desire to provide stability to our staff and faculty so they can focus on what matters most. In seeking to attract and retain the best talent, Notre Dame offers a competitive benefits and compensation package that supports faculty, staff and their families. Our compensation philosophy recognizes top performers for their outstanding contributions to the University. Our well-rounded benefits package is unique to Notre Dame. It includes excellent insurance, an on-site Wellness Center and pharmacy and extraordinary tuition and retirement benefits among others. See what your compensation and major benefits add up to by using our benefits and compensation package calculator. Review our benefits summaries to see all that is available to our benefit-eligible employees. You may also see who qualifies as an eligible dependent. Compensation In seeking to attract and retain the best talent, Notre Dame offers competitive total rewards packages while recognizing top performers for their outstanding contributions to the University. Enrollment In addition to your start as a new employee, certain events in your life may require that you make changes to your benefits. Learn more about how to enroll and what life events may require you make changes to your benefits. Benefit Vendor Contacts If you’re looking for the contact information for one of our benefit vendors or partners, you can find it here. Notre Dame Wellness Center Learn more about the state-of-the-art, onsite workplace wellness center for benefit-eligible University faculty, staff, and their eligible dependents. The Notre Dame Wellness Center is operated by Premise Health. Medical, Vision, Dental Insurance The University offers different types of insurance plans to best meet your and your family’s needs. Learn more about our medical, vision and dental insurance plan options. Other Insurance Learn more about the additional insurance options available to you and your family, including flexible spending accounts and life, long term care, accident, critical illness and long term disability insurance. International Travel Will you be traveling internationally on University business for one semester or longer? If so, learn more about the health insurance plan available to you. Time Off, Leaves, & Holidays Time off, leaves and holidays are a key part of your total rewards from Notre Dame. Work and Life Benefits From Emergency Back Up Care to Discounts, the University offers a wide variety of work and life benefits to help you thrive. Learn more about them. Educational Benefits In addition to our generous tuition assistance benefit for children of eligible employees, we offer employees, retirees and spouses tuition reimbursement, remission and scholarship programs. Retirement Learn more about the retirement benefits the University offers that provide for your long-term financial well-being and stability. Accessibility & Accommodations We provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities who are employees or applicants for employment, except when it would cause an undue hardship, through the ADA Interactive Process. Home Employment Benefits & Compensation Compensation Enrollment Benefit Vendor Contacts Notre Dame Wellness Center Medical, Vision, Dental Insurance Other Insurance International Travel Time Off, Leaves, & Holidays Work and Life Benefits Educational Benefits Retirement Accessibility & Accommodations Professional Development Well-Being & Culture Compensation Enrollment Benefit Vendor Contacts Notre Dame Wellness Center Medical, Vision, Dental Insurance Other Insurance International Travel Time Off, Leaves, & Holidays Work and Life Benefits Educational Benefits Retirement Accessibility & Accommodations Knowledge Hub Contact Us Office of the Executive Vice President Human Resources 200 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5900 askhr@nd.edu Contact Us Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports Hours of Operation are Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., closed on University holidays. © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn