Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Human Resources Office of the Executive Vice President Employment Benefits & Compensation Professional Development Well-Being & Culture Home Contact Search Menu Benefits and Compensation Package Calculator Benefits and Compensation Package Calculator Notre Dame is more than a breathtaking campus - our strong community and sense of family, long-standing tradition of excellence, and the ability to offer the best in resources and opportunity means we attract the finest faculty and staff from around the world Salary The University strives to provide base compensation for faculty and staff that is externally competitive with the relevant market and internally aligned with positions with similar responsibilities, demonstrated competencies, and experience. Current State Select State Current City Select City Current Salary Your Notre Dame Salary: $50,000 Retirement Preparing for your future is important, and the University of Notre Dame is committed to providing the information, resources, and support you need to help you feel confident in your retirement savings strategy. Upon attaining eligibility, the University contributes 10% of your regular salary to the plan, and you are required to contribute a Mandatory Employee Contribution of 5% of your regular salary to the plan. What percentage of your income do you contribute to your retirement fund each year? Your contribution:$0 Notre Dame's contribution:$0 Total annual contribution: $0 Tuition Benefit The University provides tuition assistance to the children of eligible faculty and staff who are attending Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s or other four-year accredited colleges and universities. The amount of the benefit is 50% of Notre Dame’s tuition. How many kids do you have? Total amount of ND tuition contribution: $0 Healthcare Notre Dame strives to provide a health care program consistent with its mission and values that empowers each faculty and staff member to achieve their own individual, optimal level of health through: Choice - Broad and meaningful plan choice Well Being - Robust yet practical wellness programs Affordability - Reasonably affordable contributions Education - Education and decision support tools Competitiveness - Active competitive positioning Which healthcare plan interests you? Individual Individual + 1 Family Add up my benefits! Home Employment Benefits and Compensation Package Calculator Benefit Summaries Dual Career Assistance Program Applicant FAQs Benefits & Compensation Professional Development Well-Being & Culture Benefits and Compensation Package Calculator Benefit Summaries Dual Career Assistance Program Applicant FAQs Knowledge Hub Contact Us Office of the Executive Vice President Human Resources 200 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5900 askhr@nd.edu Contact Us Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports Hours of Operation are Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., closed on University holidays. © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn