Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Human Resources Office of the Executive Vice President Employment Benefits & Compensation Professional Development Well-Being & Culture Home Contact Search Menu Professional Development Whether you're seeking to deepen your expertise and effectiveness or harness your leadership skills, we offer unparalleled professional development to our staff and faculty so they can develop their inner champions and build their careers. Professional Development Whether you're seeking to deepen your expertise and effectiveness or harness your leadership skills, we offer unparalleled professional development to our staff and faculty so they can develop their inner champions and build their careers. The University of Notre Dame offers all staff and faculty a full schedule of professional development opportunities every semester. Several formats are available, including single-day, and multi-day. Most of our offerings are instructor-led, but we also offer webinars and other online learning opportunities. Our goal is to help you learn and practice new skills and competencies, problem-solve, build your network, and ultimately, build your career at the University of Notre Dame. Find Learning Opportunities Search and register for upcoming learning programs. Signature Programs See an overview of key recurring learning programs and series available to staff and faculty. Performance Management A holistic process from initial onboarding to regular coaching and feedback to provide continuous growth and professional development for employees as well as alignment with the University’s core values. Consulting & Organizational Development Departments often find they need consulting and team building programs or services tailored to meet unique needs or to address specific situations facing their group. Home Employment Benefits & Compensation Professional Development Find Learning Opportunities Signature Programs Performance Management Consulting and Organizational Development Well-Being & Culture Find Learning Opportunities Signature Programs Performance Management Consulting and Organizational Development Knowledge Hub Contact Us Office of the Executive Vice President Human Resources 200 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5900 askhr@nd.edu Contact Us Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports Hours of Operation are Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., closed on University holidays. © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn