Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Human Resources Office of the Executive Vice President Employment Benefits & Compensation Professional Development Well-Being & Culture Home Contact Search Menu Dual Career Assistance Program Home › Employment › Dual Career Assistance Program Dual Career Assistance Program Candidates for faculty and staff positions at the University of Notre Dame often have a spouse or partner who is also seeking professional opportunities in the area. The University of Notre Dame Dual Career Assistance Program offers customized job search assistance to qualified couples who face the dual career challenge. You can read more about the program, our placements, and participant testimonials by referring to the Dual Career Assistance Program Brochure. You can also learn about our Preferred Realtor Program. Who is eligible for the Dual Career Assistance Program? The spouse or partner of a new regular full-time faculty or staff member who will become unemployed due to their relocation is eligible to work with the Dual Career Assistance Program. Priority is given to those individuals whose spouse or partner has been employed at the University for less than one year. Assistance will be extremely hampered if a client does not have the authorization to work in the United States. How can eligible participants work with the Dual Career Assistance Program? Complete the Initial Consultation Form: In order to confirm eligibility and learn more about job search preferences, we ask that eligible spouses/partners first complete our initial consultation form. Once the form has been received and reviewed we will be in touch with confirmation of eligibility and details on how to start working with the DCA Office. Attend Initial Consultation: An initial consultation is conducted with the spouse or partner to determine his or her employment interests, skills, and needs. Face-to-face meetings are encouraged. Initial consultations by phone, video conference, or email are available. Receive Customized Assistance: The services offered through the Dual Career Assistance Program are customized to fit individual needs. Assistance is given to identify appropriate employment opportunities and networking contacts. Services available include: Pre-offer spousal or partner consultations during the interviewing stage. Job search assistance. Networking on your behalf with our network partners and networking assistance. Access to job openings at the University. Resume/curriculum vitae and cover letter critique. Assistance with interviewing techniques and salary negotiations. Information about local employment demographics. Other information that may be useful in a job search. Job Search Success Dependent on Individual's Efforts: The Dual Career Assistance Program does not create an entitlement to employment nor does it guarantee a position. An individual’s own job search efforts and follow-up are crucial to the success of the program. Apply Find open positions for faculty, staff or students. For Faculty For Staff For Students Home Employment Benefits and Compensation Package Calculator Benefit Summaries Dual Career Assistance Program Applicant FAQs Benefits & Compensation Professional Development Well-Being & Culture Benefits and Compensation Package Calculator Benefit Summaries Dual Career Assistance Program Applicant FAQs Knowledge Hub Contact Us Office of the Executive Vice President Human Resources 200 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5900 askhr@nd.edu Contact Us Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports Hours of Operation are Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., closed on University holidays. © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn