Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University University Human Resources Main Menu In this section About Us Careers Departments Announcements HR Contacts Home HR Consultants Talent Acquisition Careers OSU Careers Talent Acquisition Contact 405.744.2908osu-hr@okstate.edu About OSU Through leadership and service, OSU is preparing students for a bright future and building a brighter world for all. Learn more Choose Oklahoma State University We are excited you are interested in a career at Oklahoma State University. OSU is such a special place to work and we are so happy you are considering joining the Cowboy family. Browse our Reasons to Work at OSU page and search our current job listings to find your next opportunity. SEARCH JOB LISTINGS Career Opportunities for Current OSU Employees If you are a current, continuous OSU staff or faculty member and would like to search other job opportunities, please log in to the Talent Management System with your O-Key. Click on the Search Jobs icon to link to the career site. Student Career Opportunities and Internships Whether you are seeking a part-time student job while attending OSU, work-study, an internship for the summer, co-op job opportunities or full-time employment for after graduation, Career Services staff stands committed to assisting students and alumni with all of their career needs. Please visit Career Services at 360 Student Union, call 405.744.5253, email careers@okstate.edu, or visit the website at www.hireosugrads.com. Federal Vaccine Mandate On December 7, 2021, a federal judge temporarily blocked the implementation of the federal contractor vaccination mandate and its associated guidance. Following the injunction, OSU has, consistent with applicable law, paused the vaccination mandate. As the case progresses through court, we will continue to monitor legal developments should the status of the mandate change. All OSU-Stillwater, OSU-Tulsa, and OSU-Center for Health Sciences employees, regardless of work location, must provide proof of full vaccination status against COVID-19 by January 4, 2022, or thereafter by the first day of employment, pursuant to the federal executive order for federal contractors. To learn more about this requirement and vaccination accommodations, please visit OSU’s Campus COVID Plan and Guidelines. Frequently Asked Questions for Applicants: Does the vaccination requirement apply to new hires? Yes. New hires and rehires within OSU-Stillwater, OSU-Tulsa, and OSU-Center for Health Sciences must meet the vaccination requirement on or before their start date. Offers of employment will be contingent upon proof of vaccination. If you are unable to get vaccinated due to medical or religious reasons, please contact the Office of Equal Opportunity at eeo@okstate.edu for assistance. Can OSU ask job applicants about their vaccination status? Yes. OSU can ask applicants for positions at OSU-Stillwater, OSU-Tulsa, and OSU-Center for Health Sciences about their vaccination status as this is not a disability related inquiry under the Americans with Disability Act (ADA). Can OSU decline an offer of employment if a candidate is unwilling to comply with the vaccination requirement? Yes. If a candidate is unwilling to comply with the vaccination requirement or is unable to obtain a medical or religious accommodation, they are not eligible for hire at OSU-Stillwater, OSU-Tulsa, or OSU-Center for Health Sciences due the requirements of the federal mandate. After making a conditional offer, what if an applicant requests a medical or religious accommodation? Applicants should contact the Office of Equal Opportunity at eeo@okstate.edu to engage in the interactive process. Applicants will not be approved for hire until they have an approved accommodation. Oklahoma State University is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity. OSU will hire qualified applicants who are legally able to work in the U.S. regardless of citizenship status. View our Annual Public Safety Report. Learn about Title IX Compliance. Back To Top Back To Top University Human Resources Part of theDivision of Administration and Finance Oklahoma State University 401 General Academic Building Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-7420 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEvents Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©