Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Policies / Forms HR Directory Calendar News FAQ Careers at Ohio State New Employees Current Employees Benefits +× Benefit Plan Rates Discount Programs Medical Plans Retirement Plans Tuition Assistance Paid Time Off and Leave Options View All Benefits Life Events +× Birth and Adoption Gain or Loss of Coverage Leaves of Absence Leaving Ohio State Marital Status Change View All Life Events HR Services +× Background Checks Compensation Customer Service Disability Benefits and Leave Services Employee and Labor Relations Employment Verification Learning and Development View All HR Services Payroll Services +× Direct Deposit My Paycheck Paydate Schedule Tax Information Payroll Services Home Awards and Events +× Faculty and Staff Appreciation Buckeye Football Game Distinguished Diversity Enhancement Awards Distinguished Staff Awards Faculty and Staff Retirement Recognition Faculty and Staff Service Recognition Staff Appreciation Week University Faculty Awards Student Employees HR Professionals Recruitment, Hiring and Onboarding +× Background Checks and Fingerprinting Creating a Position Description Form I-9 and E-Verify Job Classifications / Title Deck Recruitment Process Resources Relocation Talent Acquisition Resources Benefits +× Benefit Composite Rates Benefit Plan Rates Benefits Eligibility Gain or Loss of Coverage Service Date Calculator View All Benefits Compensation +× Annual Merit Compensation Process Compensation Resources Job Classifications / Title Deck Competitive Compensation Career Roadmap Separation and Retirement +× Leaving Ohio State Preparing to Retire Retirement Fund Distributions Retirement Overview HR Tools and Resources +× Administrative Resource Center HR Connection HR Statistics and Reports Workday HR Connection Human Resources at Ohio State Content Slider Messages HR Connection Visit HR Connection, the online destination for Ohio State HR support services. Visit HR Connection Benefits Start Day One Ohio State offers a comprehensive benefits package with a variety of options to meet your unique needs. Learn More Healthy Workplace Ohio State is committed to being a healthy workplace for all faculty and staff. Learn More Benefits Life Events Your Plan For Health Professional Development HR Services Workday Latest HR News COVID-19 HR RESOURCES Safe and Healthy Buckeyes May 16, 2022 Mental Health Resources for Ohio State Employees In recognition of Mental Health Awareness Month, please take a moment to familiarize yourself with the mental health and well-being resources offered to benefits-eligible Ohio State employees and their families. May 17, 2022 Ohio State staff recognized for outstanding contributions and achievements Thirteen remarkable staff employees have been chosen to receive Ohio State’s highest staff recognition, the 2022 Distinguished Staff Award. Congratulations to the recipients who have been recognized for greatly contributing to the university’s mission and demonstrating Ohio State values. May 10, 2022 Remarkable faculty, staff and students recognized for significant diversity and inclusion outcomes Congratulations to the honorees selected for the 2022 Distinguished Diversity Enhancement Award. Five exceptional recipients are being recognized for their outstanding commitment to enhancing Ohio State’s diversity and inclusion efforts. April 27, 2022 Deadline Extended for 2021 FSA Claims Filing The university is making a one-time plan amendment to extend the filing deadline for 2021 Health and Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account (FSA) claims. See All News Upcoming Dates & Deadlines Jun6 New Hire Retirement and Health & Welfare Benefit Webinar This 150-minute webinar will provide faculty and staff with the information needed to make an informed choice regarding Retirement and Health and Welfare options as a new hire. Event Details Jun6 New Employee Orientation To introduce new Ohio State employees to the culture of Ohio State and set them up for success from their first day, two virtual orientations will be held simultaneously every other Monday morning - one for campus employees and one for medical center employees. Event Details Jun9 New Hire Retirement and Health & Welfare Benefit Webinar This 150-minute webinar will provide faculty and staff with the information needed to make an informed choice regarding Retirement and Health and Welfare options as a new hire. Event Details View Full Calendar Career Roadmap A modern compensation and job classification model developed by Ohio State to provide transparent career paths and pay ranges for staff. Learn More Quick Links About HR Career Roadmap Required Notices Buckeyes for Charity OSURA HR Connection Hours Phone: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Walk-Ins: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Drop Box: 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. hrconnection.osu.edu Background Check Hours 9-11 a.m. and 1-4 p.m. Fingerprinting by appointment only HR‐BackgroundChecks@osu.edu Background Check Information Human Resources 1590 North High St., Suite 300 Columbus, OH 43201-2190 (614) 247-myHR (6947) hrconnection@osu.edu The Ohio State University | Human Resources HR Connection: hrconnection.osu.edu Phone: (614) 247-myHR (6947) Fax: (614) 292-7813 Email: hrconnection@osu.edu If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this site, please contact us for assistance via email at hrconnection@osu.edu or by phone at 614-247-6947. Privacy statement | Nondiscrimination notice | Cookie Settings