Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box University Human Resources Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Organizational Structure & Leadership Team Organizational Chart Contact Information - HR Teams HR Staff Directory AskHR Careers Jobs at OSU Working at OSU Benefits Overview Work Life Benefits Prospective Employee New Employees Current Employees Student Employee Supervisors & Managers Administrators & Supervisors Appointment Renewal and Non-Renewal Model Letters Classification & Compensation Employee and Labor Relations Leave Management Onboarding Process Performance Management Policies and Contracts Recruitment and Selection Resources Safety in the Workplace Employees New Employees Current Employees Student Employees HR Professionals Learning and Development Employee and Labor Relations A-Z Index Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Us Organizational Structure & Leadership Team Organizational Chart Contact Information - HR Teams HR Staff Directory AskHR Careers Jobs at OSU Working at OSU Benefits Overview Work Life Benefits Prospective Employee New Employees Current Employees Student Employee Supervisors & Managers Administrators & Supervisors Appointment Renewal and Non-Renewal Model Letters Classification & Compensation Employee and Labor Relations Leave Management Onboarding Process Performance Management Policies and Contracts Recruitment and Selection Resources Safety in the Workplace Employees New Employees Current Employees Student Employees HR Professionals Learning and Development Employee and Labor Relations A-Z Index Find information regarding the Summer Session Appointment Process 2022 here. FY23 Faculty Salary Increase Program Information AskHR: Call 541-737-3103 or click to email HR Customer Portal Employment opportunities with Oregon State University There are many employment opportunities available with Oregon State University. Why work for OSU? We'll offer three good reasons: people, place and community. Our faculty and staff are known for their collaborative spirit and innovation, our students are passionate problem solvers and our alumni are bursting with Beaver pride. Our main campus in Corvallis, a thriving college town, is centrally located, tucked between the Coast Range and the lush farmland of the Willamette Valley with easy access to the Oregon Coast, Portland and the outdoor wonderland of the Cascade Mountains. Search OSU jobs COVID-19 Leave COVID-19 Resources/Pathway to Fall 2021 Remote Work Agreements Employee Critical Training Info & FAQs Faculty Union Bargaining Mandatory Reporting of Child Abuse Holiday Schedule Students Information for students regarding employment and insurance. Forms Employee forms include those for benefits, retirement, pay and time off. Policies & Procedures Policies, Procedures and Bargaining Agreements HR Professionals Resources to help HR Professionals serve their clients Working for OSU University Human Resources provides a comprehensive human resources management program for Oregon State University Employees located in 40 locations throughout the state. MyOregonState EmpCenter Online PD & Recruiting System New Employee Resources Announcements Announcement Feed Academic Faculty and Professional Faculty Salary Increase Program and Process for FY23 Notification of Process Change for the PEBB Summer Insurance Process Hiring Freeze Lifted Juneteenth 2021 Professional Faculty Continuous Employment Unemployment Claims Alert Criminal History Check Update Coronavirus Guidance from Health Insurance Providers Supportive Services for Employees and their Families Regarding Coronavirus View All Announcements Quick Links Information HR and Payroll Operations Forum Critical training for faculty and staff Paid Family and Medical Leave, eff. 09/16/2020 Motor Vehicle History Check Criminal History Check Mandatory Reporting of Child Abuse Providence Health Plans – Annual SSN Reporting Employment Verification Job Category and Compensation Program OSU Today 211 Resource Salary Updates Academic Faculty and Professional Faculty Salary Increase Program and Process for FY23 Accident/Incident Reporting Office of Risk Management's Public Incident Reporting Form allows us to better assist employees, managers/supervisors and departments by processing and tracking requests in one central location for Accident/Injury reporting. Requests and/or incident reports will be submitted online using the Public Incident Reporting form. More information is available online. Contact Info University Human Resources, Oregon State University, 236 Kerr Administration Building, Corvallis, OR 97331-8578 Phone: 541-737-3103 Fax: 541-737-7771 or 541-737-0541 E-mail A division of Finance & Administration. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Notice of Availability: In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, Oregon State University publishes Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports for the Corvallis campus, OSU-Cascades campus, Hatfield Marine Science Center, and OSU at EOU. These reports include important safety information, a wide range of current security policies, fire safety practices, helpful university and local resources, crime prevention programs, and crime and fire statistics for the previous three calendar years. Paper copies of these reports will be provided upon request and can also be obtained at 200 Cascade Hall, 601 SW 17th St., Corvallis, OR. If you prefer, you may request a copy by emailing Clery.Comp‌liance@oregonstate.edu. This report is available without charge.