Skip to main content Search OU Norman OU Norman Social Media OU Norman OUHSC OU Tulsa Home Job Search Current OU Employees Faculty Positions Student Jobs PEAK Temporary Staffing External Applicants (Staff Positions) Discover OU My Profile & Applications Contact Us MAKE A DIFFERENCE WORK AT THE UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA OU HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER, OKC BE ON THE CUTTING EDGE WORK AT THE UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA OU-TULSA CAMPUS Executive Talent Search Find Executive Jobs Here For positions at the OU Foundation: OU Foundation Visit the OU Connect Job Board Offer and find services within the OU community. Connections made in OU Connect are between individuals and are not OU employment. OU Connect Job Board Current Openings External Applicants Staff Positions Faculty Positions Student Jobs Peak Temporary Staffing Current OU Employees Staff Positions OU Campuses Norman Campus Norman Area OU Health Sciences Center Oklahoma City Area OU-Tulsa Campus Tulsa Area Tips For Applying Discover OU Top 10 Reasons to Join OU The University of Oklahoma has a Smoke and Tobacco Free Policy. No Tobacco or Drug use (including medical marijuana) is allowed on any university property. You can review the Smoke and Tobacco Free Policy here. The University of Oklahoma, in compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, genetic information, gender identity, gender expression, age, religion, disability, political beliefs, or status as a veteran in any of its policies, practices, or procedures. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to the Institutional Equity Office at www.ou.edu/eoo. The University of Oklahoma is committed to assisting all members of the OU community in providing for their own safety and security. The Sooner Safety and Fire Report contains information regarding campus security and personal safety including topics such as: crime prevention, fire safety, university police law enforcement authority, crime reporting policies, disciplinary procedures and other matters of importance related to security and safety on campus. The Sooner Safety and Fire Report also contains information about crime statistics for the three previous calendar years concerning reported crimes that occurred on campus; in certain off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by OU; and on public property within, or immediately adjacent to and accessible from the campus. You can review the Sooner Safety and Fire Report here. To request a paper copy of the Sooner Safety and Fire Report, please click here for campus contact information. Contact Human Resources We serve the Norman, Oklahoma City, and Tulsa campuses. Report concerns: EthicsPoint Updated 12/21/2021 by The University of Oklahoma Human Resources: ohr@ou.edu Login