Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University University Human Resources Main Menu In this section About Us Careers Departments Announcements HR Contacts Home Equal Opportunity Reporting SUBMIT A REPORT The Office of Equal Opportunity is committed to supporting the University’s mission to create and maintain an educational and work environment free from all forms of gender discrimination, sexual harassment, exploitation and intimidation. If you experience any of the above to include: gender discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault, sexual misconduct, dating violence, domestic violence, or stalking, please submit this form to report. Once received, the Office of Equal Opportunity will reach out to the appropriate parties to discuss next best steps and provide information on resources and accommodations. Questions? Please contact our offices via email or call 405.744.1156 or visit Get Help. INTAKE QUESTIONNAIRE COMPLETE THIS INTAKE FORM TO REPORT DIRECTLY TO THE OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND THE TITLE IX COORDINATOR YOU MAY USE ETHICSPOINT TO SUBMIT AN ANONYMOUS REPORT If you see this don't fill out this input box. Last Name* First Name* MI BannerID/CWID Date of Birth* To which gender identity do you most identify?* Male Female Transgender Male Transgender Female Gender Variant/Non-Conforming Not Listed Prefer not to answer Home Address* City* State* Zip Code* Preferred Home/Cell Phone* Work Phone Preferred Email Address* Employment Status* Full-time Continuous Part-time Continuous Full-time Temporary Part-time Temporary Student Employee Hire Date* Job Title/Position at Hire Date* Job Title at Time of Alleged Discrimination/Harassment* Department/College* Campus Address* Date Resigned/Terminated Last or Current Pay Rate* Preferred Method of Contact* Phone Email Name of Immediate Supervisor* If Job Applicant-Date and Position You Applied What is the reason (basis) for your claim of discrimination or harassment?* Race/Color Sex/Gender Age Disability Retaliation Religion Ethnicity Sexual Orientation Veteran Status Pregnancy National Origin Gender Identity or Expression Genetic Information: Genetic Testing Genetic Information: Family History Genetic Information: Genetic Services (counseling, education, or testing) If you selected Genetic Information, how did the employer obtain the genetic information? In your own words, please explain what happened including names and dates.* Describe why you believe the incident(s) you described above relates to your race, sex, age, etc.* Please identify and briefly describe any other incidents you believe may be related to this report. Please provide information on what you have done to remedy this issue to include individuals you have spoken with and detail their responses. In regards to your answer to the previous question, please provide the names and dates of individuals you spoke with. Describe the resolution you are seeking, relating to this report. Are there any witnesses to the alleged discriminatory or harassing incident(s)? If yes, please identify them below and tell us what they will say. Please include witnesses full name, job title, address and phone number. What do you believe this person(s) will tell us? Complaint Acknowledgement* I want to file a charge of discrimination or harassment, and I authorize the Office of Equal Opportunity staff to look into the allegations described above. I DO NOT want to file a complaint at this time. I want to talk to an Office of Equal Opportunity staff before deciding to whether to file a charge. I understand that by checking this box I have NOT filed a charge with Office of Equal Opportunity. As the complainant, I certify to the best of my knowledge the information that I have provided is accurate and the events and circumstances are as I have described them. I have attached to this complaint any supportive evidence and/or documentation such as e‐mails, records, and/or materials which I believe supports my allegation. I also understand and consent to the disclosure of information contained in this complaint to appropriate administrators and witnesses interviewed for the purpose of investigating this complaint. I understand that I will have to provide contact information of witnesses identified in this complaint. I am willing to cooperate fully in the investigation and provide whatever evidence the University deems relevant. I understand that the nature of this complaint, correspondence, and all discussions conducted in the course of investigation of the information contained in this complaint are confidential to the extent permitted by law and University policy, and unauthorized disclosures of information concerning the investigation could result in disciplinary action. I agree to abide by these guidelines. I certify the above statement.* Electronic Certification Please type your name for electronic certification* Please email eeo@okstate.edu additional documentation such as letters, emails, memos, notes, etc., you think might be important to complete your response. Form UUID Site Name Submit Clear Equal Opportunity Back To Top Back To Top University Human Resources Part of theDivision of Administration and Finance Oklahoma State University 401 General Academic Building Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-7420 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEvents Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©