Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University University Human Resources Main Menu In this section About Us Careers Departments Announcements HR Contacts Home Equal Opportunity Title IX Equal Opportunity Contact Office of Equal Opportunity 414 General Academic Bldg. (GAB) 405.744.1156eeo@okstate.edu IMPORTANT LINKS INTERIM TITLE IX SEXUAL MISCONDUCT POLICY REPORTING & INVESTIGATION PROCESS STAFF TITLE IX TRAINING TRANSCRIPT What is Title IX? Oklahoma State University, as a public educational institution, must abide by Title IX regulations because it receives federal funding though federal financial aid programs used by students. Specifically, Title IX states: “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.” Both Title IX and university policy prohibit discrimination in services or benefits offered by the university based upon gender. Sexual harassment is a form of gender discrimination and therefore prohibited under Title IX. Sexual harassment is defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature and may include unwelcomed sexual advances, sexual assaults, or requests for sexual favors. This and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitutes sexual harassment when: Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an individuals employment or academic standing; Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for employment decisions or academic decisions affecting such individual; or Such conduct is sufficiently serious that it has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individuals work or academic performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or academic environment. Harassment does not include verbal expressions or written material that is relevant and appropriately related to course subject matter or curriculum, and this policy shall not abridge academic freedom or the university's educational mission. The following are examples of types of conduct that may constitute sexual harassment: Inappropriate touching, patting, or pinching Physical assault or coerced sexual activity Demands or subtle pressure for sexual favors Obscene phone calls, texts, email, or gestures Any person (student, faculty, staff, or guest) who believes discriminatory practices have been engaged in based upon gender may discuss these concerns and file informal or formal complaints of possible violations of Title IX with the Title IX Coordinator. It is the policy of this university to provide equal employment and educational opportunity on the basis of merit without discrimination because of age, race, ethnicity, color, sex, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, veterans’ status, or disability. Mandatory Title IX Training In order to better understand Title IX and OSU's reporting, investigation, and resolution process you are expected to take mandatory Title IX training. In addition to, any university employee who works with students has federally mandated responsibilities for reporting possible incidents that are covered by Title IX legislation. All OSU employees are encouraged to report incidents of Title IX violation and are expected to take mandatory annual Title IX training. We thank you for your commitment in assisting the university maintaining adherence to these federal compliance mandates and keeping our campus safe. Below is a list of available online training specific to positions and FTE at OSU. Employees are not only classified as faculty or staff, but also according to their full-time equivalent (FTE). Faculty and Staff Appointment of .50 FTE or Greater You can register for an instructor-led session or complete the online version of Title IX training through your employee Learning Management System. Learning Management System (requires O-key log-in) Faculty and Staff Appointment of .50 FTE or Less Recommended or Required Training Student Employees Recommended or Required Training If you have any technical difficulties with the online course please contact Talent Development at 405.744.5374 or osu-trng@okstate.edu. If you have questions regarding Title IX, please contact the Office of Equal Opportunity at OSU at 405.744.1156 or eeo@okstate.edu. Back To Top Back To Top University Human Resources Part of theDivision of Administration and Finance Oklahoma State University 401 General Academic Building Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-7420 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEvents Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©