Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University University Human Resources Main Menu In this section About Us Careers Departments Announcements HR Contacts Home Equal Opportunity ADA Reasonable Accommodation Equal Opportunity Contact Office of Equal Opportunity 414 General Academic Bldg. (GAB) 405.744.1156eeo@okstate.edu Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) The ADA is a civil rights law that prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities in all areas of public life, including jobs, schools, transportation, and all public and private places open to the general public. The purpose of the law is to make sure that people with disabilities have the same rights and opportunities as everyone else. Reasonable Accommodation OSU has a strong commitment to a diverse workplace and learning community, a distinguished faculty and staff, and excellent students. This dream drives the challenge of providing quality educational and occupational opportunities for everyone, especially qualified individuals with disabilities. The university is dedicated to providing reasonable accommodation to qualified students, employees, and all those with disabilities participating in its programs and services. This is done in accordance with the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), and as detailed in OSU's Affirmative Action plan and program. Resource Guide for Supervisors Students If you are an OSU student and need reasonable accommodation, you should contact Student Accessibility Services where several staff members are available to answer questions, review medical documentation, and arrange services for all qualified students admitted to OSU. Student Accessibility Services 1202 W Farm Road 155 UHS 405.744.7116 accessibility@okstate.edu Faculty and Staff If you are a qualified OSU faculty member or staff employee with a disability, you may request reasonable accommodation from your supervisor, chair, dean, or the Office of Equal Opportunity by completing the ADA Accommodation Packet. If you have questions about your rights under the ADA, whether you are a qualified individual with a disability, or the documentation required to establish that status, you should contact the Office of Equal Opportunity. Individuals, supervisors, or individuals with their supervisors may schedule an appointment to determine eligibility and the reasonable, effective accommodation(s) that would best enable the individuals to successfully do the essential functions of their positions. Individuals requesting accommodation may be required to provide medical documentation regarding the disability and requested accommodation. Medical information provided will be maintained in the Office of Equal Opportunity, separate from personnel files, and is strictly confidential. Only information related to the provision of reasonable accommodation or information necessary to address safety issues in the work setting will be released to supervisors. Supervisors and Administrators How do you determine if accommodation requests are appropriate and effective? What is reasonable? What are the recordkeeping requirements? Do you know what resources are available to OSU employees and how they qualify for them? If you want to know more about ADA compliance or have questions about individual requests, please contact the Office of Equal Opportunity for more information. Individual consultations and training sessions for groups of all sizes are available. Accommodation Acknowledgment Form for Supervisors Applicants for Employment If you are interested in employment opportunities at OSU and require reasonable accommodation during the application process, contact University Human Resources at 405.744.2909. Participants in Programs and Services We encourage anyone requiring reasonable accommodation for participation in any program or service offered by OSU to contact the event sponsor well in advance of the event for details on arranging services. Attention should be paid to directions provided in program material regarding deadlines established for timely requests. Comments, questions or inquiries relating to physical access, web access, or requests for information related to OSU's compliance with the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and/or the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 should be directed to the ADA Compliance Coordinator, 405.744.1156. ADA Accommodation Packet Back To Top Back To Top University Human Resources Part of theDivision of Administration and Finance Oklahoma State University 401 General Academic Building Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-7420 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEvents Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©