Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Policies / Forms HR Directory Calendar News FAQ Careers at Ohio State New Employees Current Employees Benefits +× Benefit Plan Rates Discount Programs Medical Plans Retirement Plans Tuition Assistance Paid Time Off and Leave Options View All Benefits Life Events +× Birth and Adoption Gain or Loss of Coverage Leaves of Absence Leaving Ohio State Marital Status Change View All Life Events HR Services +× Background Checks Compensation Customer Service Disability Benefits and Leave Services Employee and Labor Relations Employment Verification Learning and Development View All HR Services Payroll Services +× Direct Deposit My Paycheck Paydate Schedule Tax Information Payroll Services Home Awards and Events +× Faculty and Staff Appreciation Buckeye Football Game Distinguished Diversity Enhancement Awards Distinguished Staff Awards Faculty and Staff Retirement Recognition Faculty and Staff Service Recognition Staff Appreciation Week University Faculty Awards Student Employees HR Professionals Recruitment, Hiring and Onboarding +× Background Checks and Fingerprinting Creating a Position Description Form I-9 and E-Verify Job Classifications / Title Deck Recruitment Process Resources Relocation Talent Acquisition Resources Benefits +× Benefit Composite Rates Benefit Plan Rates Benefits Eligibility Gain or Loss of Coverage Service Date Calculator View All Benefits Compensation +× Annual Merit Compensation Process Compensation Resources Job Classifications / Title Deck Competitive Compensation Career Roadmap Separation and Retirement +× Leaving Ohio State Preparing to Retire Retirement Fund Distributions Retirement Overview HR Tools and Resources +× Administrative Resource Center HR Connection HR Statistics and Reports Workday HR Connection Careers at Ohio State - Human Resources at Ohio State Grow and Advance Your Career Diversity in People and Ideas Top Columbus Employer Interested in joining our team? Explore our job openings... non-Ohio State employees current Ohio State employees and enrolled students Screen reader users will encounter difficulty with this site during implementation. For assistance with applying, please contact hrconnection-accessibility@osu.edu. Ohio State faculty and staff contribute in significant ways to transform themselves and the world. Explore exciting employment opportunities. Life at Ohio State Tradition Buckeye pride can be found all across our five campus locations and Wexner Medical Center. It can be felt walking across the Oval when the Orton Tower chimes or in every O-H-I-O photo. Ohio State’s traditions go back to 1870 and faculty and staff join students and alumni to live out its legacy every day. https://hr.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/vslider-1368x1550-19.jpg Life at Ohio State Make a Difference Ohio State faculty and staff change lives, at home and around the world. Through community engagement and partnerships, Ohio State is solving critical issues and transforming lives. https://hr.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/vslider-1368x1550-16.jpg Life at Ohio State Education Benefits Tuition Assistance is available for eligible faculty, staff and their dependents. Ohio State is one of the world’s most comprehensive, public research universities, which means that whatever you want to do, you can likely find it here. Learn More https://hr.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/vslider-1368x1550-09.jpg Life at Ohio State Exceptional Benefits Ohio State is proud to offer a benefits package that supports benefits-eligible faculty, staff and their families. A variety of health insurance options, paid time off and various retirement plans are a few of the tangible benefits offered. Learn More https://hr.osu.edu/wp-content/uploads/vslider-1368x1550-14.jpg › › Benefits Start Day One Ohio State offers a comprehensive benefits package with a variety of options to meet your unique needs. Read More Make Central Ohio Home Ohio’s capital city has it all. Columbus, the nation’s 14th largest city, is a friendly Midwestern town with metropolitan style. Read More Being a Buckeye Ohio State has a storied history and long-standing traditions. The Buckeye spirit is all across campus. Read More View open positions... non-Ohio State employees current Ohio State employees and enrolled students To build a diverse workforce, The Ohio State University encourages applications from all individuals. Ohio State is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, or protected veteran status. Quick Links About HR Career Roadmap Required Notices Buckeyes for Charity OSURA HR Connection Hours Phone: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Walk-Ins: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Drop Box: 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. hrconnection.osu.edu Background Check Hours 9-11 a.m. and 1-4 p.m. Fingerprinting by appointment only HR‐BackgroundChecks@osu.edu Background Check Information Human Resources 1590 North High St., Suite 300 Columbus, OH 43201-2190 (614) 247-myHR (6947) hrconnection@osu.edu The Ohio State University | Human Resources HR Connection: hrconnection.osu.edu Phone: (614) 247-myHR (6947) Fax: (614) 292-7813 Email: hrconnection@osu.edu If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this site, please contact us for assistance via email at hrconnection@osu.edu or by phone at 614-247-6947. Privacy statement | Nondiscrimination notice | Cookie Settings