Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box University Human Resources » Benefits Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Prospective Employee Prospective Employees: Retirement Benefits New Employees Benefits Calculator New Employees: Retirement Benefits Postdoctoral Scholars Current Employees Resources Benefits Calculator Providence Health Plan Request for Social Security Number Insurance Affordable Care Act Common Terms Frequently Asked Questions Group numbers & plan contacts OSU Life Insurance SB 551 Benefits For PT Faculty Summary of Benefits Eligibility, Enrollment Options, and Timelines How to Enroll & How to Make Changes During the Year Midyear Changes to Health & Optional benefits Cost of Health Plans CORE Benefits (Health, Vision, Dental, Basic Life) Dental Plans Employee Basic Life Insurance Medical Plans Vision Plans Optional Insurance Benefits J-1 and Post Doctoral Employees Retirement Create/Access Retirement User Account(s) Leaving OSU Employment Loans Post-Doctoral Scholars Retirement Program Retirement Counseling Retirement News PERS 2019 updates Retirement Programs Classified Employees Pension Program Unclassified Employees Retirement Programs Retirement Resources Retiring from OSU Disability Retirement Forms & Resources Health Insurance, Medicare, & Medicare Plans Health Insurance Resource Directory How to Enroll in Medicare Medicare Coverage Medicare Supplemental & Advantage Plans PEBB COBRA Health Insurance (Non-Medicare) PEBB Optional Insurance Plans PEBB Retiree Health Insurance Plans (Non-Medicare) PERS Health Insurance Plans (Non-Medicare & Medicare) Possible Health Insurance Combinations for Retirees When to Enroll in Medicare Medicare & Your Health Insurance ORP Retirement Process PERS Retirement Calculators & Estimates PERS Retirement Process Retirement Calculators Retirement Counseling Retirement Process Staying Connected with OSU Social Security Staying Connected with OSU Working After Retirement Workshops Rollovers Update Address Update Legal Name on Retirement Account(s) Voluntary Retirement Savings Programs Benefit Forms Postdoctoral Scholars Time Off, Holidays & Protected Leaves Faculty (Unclassified) Leave Accrual & Use of Leave Time Family and Medical Leave FMLA FAQs FMLA Scenario #1 FMLA Scenario #2 FMLA Scenario #3 FMLA Scenario #4 FMLA Scenario #5 FMLA Scenario #6 Graduate Assistantships Family Medical Leave Policy Holiday Schedule Inclement Weather Oregon "Mandatory” Sick Time Law Protected Leaves Guidance For Supervisors When Employees Take Protected Leave Staff (Classified) Leave Accrual & Use of Leave Time Tuition Reduction (Staff Fee Privileges) Staff Fee Privileges: Deduction Deadlines Staff Fee: Policies and Procedures Workshops and Events Flu Shot Clinics Health, Wellness & Work Life Discount Programs Employee Assistance Program Beyond Benefits Login Information Translated Flyers Webinars for Employees Health & Wellness Health & Wellness Programs Life Balance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Student Employee Clinical Fellows Graduate Assistants Undergraduate Students Supervisors & Managers Incident Reporting Workers' Compensation Resources Contact Us Mandatory Open Enrollment 2022 Benefits Virtual Benefits Fair 2021 Webinars Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Prospective Employee Prospective Employees: Retirement Benefits New Employees Benefits Calculator New Employees: Retirement Benefits Postdoctoral Scholars Current Employees Resources Benefits Calculator Providence Health Plan Request for Social Security Number Insurance Affordable Care Act Common Terms Frequently Asked Questions Group numbers & plan contacts OSU Life Insurance SB 551 Benefits For PT Faculty Summary of Benefits Eligibility, Enrollment Options, and Timelines How to Enroll & How to Make Changes During the Year Midyear Changes to Health & Optional benefits Cost of Health Plans CORE Benefits (Health, Vision, Dental, Basic Life) Dental Plans Employee Basic Life Insurance Medical Plans Vision Plans Optional Insurance Benefits J-1 and Post Doctoral Employees Retirement Create/Access Retirement User Account(s) Leaving OSU Employment Loans Post-Doctoral Scholars Retirement Program Retirement Counseling Retirement News PERS 2019 updates Retirement Programs Classified Employees Pension Program Unclassified Employees Retirement Programs Retirement Resources Retiring from OSU Disability Retirement Forms & Resources Health Insurance, Medicare, & Medicare Plans Health Insurance Resource Directory How to Enroll in Medicare Medicare Coverage Medicare Supplemental & Advantage Plans PEBB COBRA Health Insurance (Non-Medicare) PEBB Optional Insurance Plans PEBB Retiree Health Insurance Plans (Non-Medicare) PERS Health Insurance Plans (Non-Medicare & Medicare) Possible Health Insurance Combinations for Retirees When to Enroll in Medicare Medicare & Your Health Insurance ORP Retirement Process PERS Retirement Calculators & Estimates PERS Retirement Process Retirement Calculators Retirement Counseling Retirement Process Staying Connected with OSU Social Security Staying Connected with OSU Working After Retirement Workshops Rollovers Update Address Update Legal Name on Retirement Account(s) Voluntary Retirement Savings Programs Benefit Forms Postdoctoral Scholars Time Off, Holidays & Protected Leaves Faculty (Unclassified) Leave Accrual & Use of Leave Time Family and Medical Leave FMLA FAQs FMLA Scenario #1 FMLA Scenario #2 FMLA Scenario #3 FMLA Scenario #4 FMLA Scenario #5 FMLA Scenario #6 Graduate Assistantships Family Medical Leave Policy Holiday Schedule Inclement Weather Oregon "Mandatory” Sick Time Law Protected Leaves Guidance For Supervisors When Employees Take Protected Leave Staff (Classified) Leave Accrual & Use of Leave Time Tuition Reduction (Staff Fee Privileges) Staff Fee Privileges: Deduction Deadlines Staff Fee: Policies and Procedures Workshops and Events Flu Shot Clinics Health, Wellness & Work Life Discount Programs Employee Assistance Program Beyond Benefits Login Information Translated Flyers Webinars for Employees Health & Wellness Health & Wellness Programs Life Balance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Student Employee Clinical Fellows Graduate Assistants Undergraduate Students Supervisors & Managers Incident Reporting Workers' Compensation Resources Contact Us Mandatory Open Enrollment 2022 Benefits Virtual Benefits Fair 2021 Webinars You are here Home Beyond Benefits Beyond Benefits Login Webinars for Employees Beyond Benefits: Employee Assistance Program Beyond Benefits* EAP is a life event resource. It is confidential and at no-cost for employees and their household members to use! Whatever you need support with, you can contact Beyond Benefits and ask for assistance. Beyond Benefits goes beyond your typical EAP by offering legal, financial, work-life, and mental health and wellness services and resources. It is not limited to crisis or counseling support. Your Beyond Benefits program provides consultations and resources whenever and wherever you need them. Discover what Beyond Benefits has to offer you! Phone 1-855-327-4722; Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week If you call and want assistance making an appointment, ask for a confirmed appointment before leaving the call. If you would like to make the appointment yourself you can ask for a list of therapists in the EAP Network. EAP providers are expected to have an appointment within 5 to 7 days and return all calls to schedule within 24 hours. If this does not happen the EAP asks that you call back and they will assist you. The EAP also offers services through BetterHelp if you would prefer a quicker connection to a therapist by text/chat, phone or video. You just call the EAP number and ask to be referred to BetterHelp. Online: guidanceresources.com Employees can register using organization web ID: OSUbeyond Beyond Benefits EAP asks questions when employees call to affirm that they are a part of OSU and to collect demographic information. They do not share the names of employees who use the EAP services with OSU. OSU HR only receives quarterly data on the types of EAP services accessed and basic demographics. Employees can decline to provide demographic information as well and still receive services. Who is eligible to use Beyond Benefits EAP? OSU employees and anyone who lives in the employee’s household with them can use the EAP services. Once employees are hired they can use the EAP to access resources as they transition to employment at OSU. (For example, employees may have signed their offer letters but are not working yet and need assistance with childcare options and moving/relocation resources). Employees can also use the EAP services after termination for an additional 30 days. Employees that are eligible to use the EAP include: Academic Faculty Professional Faculty Classified Staff Graduate Assistants Post-Doctoral Scholars (Includes part time and full time employees. Eligibility is not tied to PEBB eligibility.) What can Beyond Benefits do for you? Are you interested in a confidential and no cost resource that can help you with whatever you are needing support with in life currently that is easy to access? Are you planning a birthday party or family reunion and wondering about location options? Are you relocating and need moving resources and travel planning assistance? Are you planning a vacation? Are you looking for discounts at movie theaters, concerts, online shopping, hotels or theme parks? Do you want health and wellness advice? Do you need Medicare/Medicaid information? Are you looking for assisted living, Home health, respite or skilled nurses for a family member? Do you need daycare resources or summer camp ideas for a special needs child? Are you interested in adoption and are unsure where to start? Do you need marriage or family counseling support? Do you need help understanding your rights and choices regarding a legal matter such as divorce, separation, custody, immigration, property law, tax laws, wills, trusts, healthcare choices or adoptions? Do you need a Local referral for an in-person consultation with an attorney at a discounted rate? Could you use financial advice on topics such as Budgeting, Debt, Credit, Tax issues, Retirement planning, College Savings, Real estate or Estate planning? Are you looking for pet parent resources? Do you need help with resources for mental or emotional support? Are you looking for individual counseling for adults or children? First three sessions are free. What webinars are upcoming? Upcoming: Managing Worry and Anxiety Worries are thoughts we have about the future that generate fear. They arrive in the form of a “what if?” and generate dire warnings about terrible consequences that await us. Unfortunately, these warnings we give ourselves are generally overblown and focused on hypothetical problems that probably won’t happen. Chronic worry that begins to impact the quality of life becomes “anxiety” and well-intended suggestions to “stop worrying” or applying common stress management techniques are mostly ineffective. This training will address how worry habits develop and methods of intervening with worry and anxiety. When: May 5, 2022 at 12PM Register here Care.com’s Senior Care & Tough Conversations Caring for aging loved ones can bring joys and challenges but may also require tough conversations that you’d prefer to avoid. Clear and proactive communication can make a huge difference in getting to the best outcome. Hear from national experts on aging and caregiving how to approach sensitive topics such as driving, finances, changes in memory and cognition, and end-of-life care. You’ll learn how to navigate these challenging conversations with your seniors, siblings, and other family members. The subjects may be tough, but the talk doesn’t have to be! When: May 10, 2022 at 9AM Register here Walking for Mental Health Walking is a common source of exercise for many people, and it has well-recognized physical health benefits. But, did you know there are mental health benefits to walking, too? Anyone who walks for any reason could also be enjoying these benefits. This session will look at the benefits of meditative walking and walking in nature. Participants will review ideas for getting started with both types of walks, as well as labyrinth walking. The possible benefits of walking barefoot in grass, known as “grounding,” will also be presented. When: May 11, 2022 at 10AM Register here Relaxation “Micro-Moments” and Winding Down Techniques The problem with most attempts to adopt stress-management or self-care routines is that they require time, effort and planning. The reality for many people who have stressful jobs is that they are too physically exhausted and mentally depleted by the end of the day to initiate activities commonly recommended to reduce stress in their lives. The trick is to intervene via multiple “micro-moments” of relaxation or mindful practices which only take 15 to 60 seconds. These moments of relaxation help bring stress levels down during the workday and interrupt the steady escalation of stress that creates physical and mental exhaustion. Also addressed: simple winding-down routines that can end the day in a calming, mindful way. When: May 24, 2022 at 12PM Register here Getting Through the Stages of Pregnancy Pregnancy is an experience full of growth, change, enrichment and challenge. It is a time when individuals and couples confront fears and expectations about becoming a parent and begin to determine parenting style. Forthcoming parenthood causes psychological changes in both mother and father. This session will help you understand the normal psychological changes that occur throughout the stages of pregnancy. Don’t worry, these changes are normal considering how big a life event pregnancy is. Remember, however, that it’s always best to talk to your doctor about these changes if they are interfering with your daily life and relationships. When: June 1, 2022 at 12PM Register here Sailing On: A Guide to Transitioning Into Retirement If you have spent much time thinking of retirement, you probably have asked yourself, “How much will I need to have saved before I can retire?” It is a big question with many factors. For instance, the amount you need may be lower if you will receive government benefits such as Social Security or a pension. Alternatively, your government benefits might be very low, requiring you to provide more of your retirement income than you otherwise would have. In any case, it can be intimidating to calculate how much you will need for the future. When: June 9, 2022 at 3PM Register here School’s Out: Getting Everyone Through the Summer It is summertime, and school is out! For many people, summer conjures images of lazy, relaxing days at the beach. However, for many working families, summer brings the challenges of balancing the demands of adult work schedules with the desire to provide safe, fun activities for children. This workshop offers several ideas on summer activities and provides practical suggestions on how to keep your kids safe while you’re at work. When: June 21, 2022 at 12PM Register here Find these upcoming and previously recorded webinars here. Questions? Contact Employee Benefits at employee.benefits@oregonstate.edu or 541-737-2805. Highlighted Topics Tax Prep Practical Guide to Coping with Grief Grief in the Workplace Elder Care Vacation Planning Working Advantage Working Advantage (Spanish) GuidanceConnect Beyond Benefits Summary Flyer Flyer For Employees Flyer For Managers Translated Flyers Login Information Translated Flyers Webinars for Employees ‹ Employee Assistance Program up Login Information › Legal Services Legal Services Unlimited Consultation, Local Legal Referrals, Family law, ID theft, Custody, Real estate, Contracts, Tax questions, In-person consultation, Discounted legal fees for attorney referrals Financial Services Financial Services Budgeting, Debit, Credit, Tax Issues, Retirement Planning, Real Estate/Homeownership, Estate Planning, Saving for College Work Life Services Work Life Services Unlimited Support: Child care, Elder care, Education, Government Programs, Health/Wellness, Concierge/Event Planning, Moving/Relocation, Home Improvement, Shopping Discounts Mental Health & Wellness Mental Health & Wellness Confidential Counseling: Anger Management, Anxiety, Conflicts at Work, Depression, Domestic Violence, Emotional/Psychological Issues, Grief & Loss, Parenting Issues, Relationship & Family Concerns, Stress, Substance Abuse Additional Contact Information Access to mental health resources is confidential and we encourage employees to directly contact the EAP or their health insurance providers for assistance. However, if employees wish to talk to an Employee Benefits representative about barriers they are encountering to accessing resources please contact Bonny Ray, Director of Employee Benefits at 541-737-2806 or bonny.ray@oregonstate.edu. Additional Language Offerings Beyond Benefits staff members speak multiple languages, including Spanish, French, Italian, Polish, Arabic and others to accommodate multilingual, multicultural individuals. They also offer translation capabilities for more than 150 languages. Once the employee identified the language needed, they place the caller on a brief hold and conference in the Language Line. Employees or their household members can request a translator. The Beyond Benefits Consultant will access the needed translator and bring the employee or household member back on the call. On website’s homepage. Clicking on the American Flag icon allows users to change the country /language to Spanish or French. For information in other languages please contact employee.benefits@oregonstate.edu. Find Beyond Benefits flyers in more languages here. *OSU has contracted with a new EAP provider CompPsych/Guidance Resources. We have the opportunity to brand the new EAP program and choose our own name for this comprehensive set of services now available to employees. We chose the name OSU Beyond Benefits. Contact Info University Human Resources, Oregon State University, 236 Kerr Administration Building, Corvallis, OR 97331-8578 Phone: 541-737-3103 Fax: 541-737-7771 or 541-737-0541 E-mail A division of Finance & Administration. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer