Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box University Human Resources » Employment Opportunities at OSU Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Organizational Structure & Leadership Team Organizational Chart Contact Information - HR Teams HR Staff Directory AskHR Careers Jobs at OSU Working at OSU Benefits Overview Work Life Benefits Prospective Employee New Employees Current Employees Student Employee Supervisors & Managers Administrators & Supervisors Appointment Renewal and Non-Renewal Model Letters Classification & Compensation Employee and Labor Relations Leave Management Onboarding Process Performance Management Policies and Contracts Recruitment and Selection Resources Safety in the Workplace Employees New Employees Current Employees Student Employees HR Professionals Learning and Development Employee and Labor Relations A-Z Index Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Us Organizational Structure & Leadership Team Organizational Chart Contact Information - HR Teams HR Staff Directory AskHR Careers Jobs at OSU Working at OSU Benefits Overview Work Life Benefits Prospective Employee New Employees Current Employees Student Employee Supervisors & Managers Administrators & Supervisors Appointment Renewal and Non-Renewal Model Letters Classification & Compensation Employee and Labor Relations Leave Management Onboarding Process Performance Management Policies and Contracts Recruitment and Selection Resources Safety in the Workplace Employees New Employees Current Employees Student Employees HR Professionals Learning and Development Employee and Labor Relations A-Z Index You are here Home » Careers Thank you for your interest in a career with Oregon State University If disability accommodation is not required, click the link below to view job postings. For those requiring disability accommodations, see accommodation information below. OSU jobs OSU is committed to the health of our local and global community. All employees and students are required to comply with the university’s COVID-19 Vaccination Program. Please visit https://covid.oregonstate.edu/ for additional information about OSU’s plans for safety and success, as well as options for compliance with the vaccination program. OSU commits to inclusive excellence by advancing equity and diversity in all that we do. We are an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer, and particularly encourage applications from members of historically underrepresented racial/ethnic groups, women, individuals with disabilities, veterans, LGBTQ community members, and others who demonstrate the ability to help us achieve our vision of a diverse and inclusive community. For Those Requiring Disability Accommodation: At Oregon State University, no qualified person shall, solely by reason of disability, be denied access to, participation in, or the benefits of, any program or activity operated by the University. If requested, OSU will provide reasonable accommodation to applicants in order to provide access to the application, interviewing and selection process. You are not required to note the presence of a disability on your application to receive an accommodation. Please request any reasonable accommodations for disability as early as possible in the application and search process. Requests may be directed to the hiring unit, or to the Office of Equal Opportunity and Access at (541) 737-3556. See Request an Accommodation Procedures for the OSU policy. OSU is a smoke-free campus and became smoke-free on September 1, 2012. For more information visit Smoke-Free OSU. Internal Employment Opportunities Who qualifies? Technical Assistance OSU’s job site is accessible in most browsers. In order for the Online Application System to work properly, you must have cookies enabled. If you need technical assistance, please email employment@oregonstate.edu with a description of your issue and the name of the browser you are using. If you have trouble accessing the system, please clear your cache as instructed below for your specific browser: Internet Explorer: Hold CTRL+SHIFT+DEL In pop-up window select only: Temporary internet files Cookies and website data Click “Delete” button Mozilla Firefox: Hold CTRL+SHIFT+DEL In pop-up window: Time range to clear – select “Everything” Under Details check only the following 3 boxes: Cookies Cache Offline Website Data Click “Clear Now” button Google Chrome: Hold CTRL+H Click “Clear Browsing Data” button In pop up window: Obliterate the following items – select “the beginning of time” Check only the following 3 boxes: Cookies and other site and plugin data Cached images and files Hosted App data Click “Clear Browsing Data” button worldatwork-seal-of-distinction-2017_seal-logo_small.jpg Contact Us Send Email Finding Your Job Careers @ OSU Student Jobs @ OSU Greater Oregon Higher Education Recruitment Consortium Additional Employment Resources About OSU Benefits Calculator LifeBalance OSU Americans With Disabilities Act Equal Opportunity Statement EEO is the LAW EEO is the Law Supplement Office of Equal Opportunity and Access Oregon Family Leave Act Family & Medical Leave Act Privacy Statement Working for Oregon State University Working for Oregon Sta... Contact Info University Human Resources, Oregon State University, 236 Kerr Administration Building, Corvallis, OR 97331-8578 Phone: 541-737-3103 Fax: 541-737-7771 or 541-737-0541 E-mail A division of Finance & Administration. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Notice of Availability: In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, Oregon State University publishes Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports for the Corvallis campus, OSU-Cascades campus, Hatfield Marine Science Center, and OSU at EOU. These reports include important safety information, a wide range of current security policies, fire safety practices, helpful university and local resources, crime prevention programs, and crime and fire statistics for the previous three calendar years. Paper copies of these reports will be provided upon request and can also be obtained at 200 Cascade Hall, 601 SW 17th St., Corvallis, OR. If you prefer, you may request a copy by emailing Clery.Comp‌liance@oregonstate.edu. This report is available without charge.