Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box University Human Resources Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Organizational Structure & Leadership Team Organizational Chart Contact Information - HR Teams HR Staff Directory AskHR Careers Jobs at OSU Working at OSU Benefits Overview Work Life Benefits Prospective Employee New Employees Current Employees Student Employee Supervisors & Managers Administrators & Supervisors Appointment Renewal and Non-Renewal Model Letters Classification & Compensation Employee and Labor Relations Leave Management Onboarding Process Performance Management Policies and Contracts Recruitment and Selection Resources Safety in the Workplace Employees New Employees Current Employees Student Employees HR Professionals Learning and Development Employee and Labor Relations A-Z Index Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Us Organizational Structure & Leadership Team Organizational Chart Contact Information - HR Teams HR Staff Directory AskHR Careers Jobs at OSU Working at OSU Benefits Overview Work Life Benefits Prospective Employee New Employees Current Employees Student Employee Supervisors & Managers Administrators & Supervisors Appointment Renewal and Non-Renewal Model Letters Classification & Compensation Employee and Labor Relations Leave Management Onboarding Process Performance Management Policies and Contracts Recruitment and Selection Resources Safety in the Workplace Employees New Employees Current Employees Student Employees HR Professionals Learning and Development Employee and Labor Relations A-Z Index You are here Home COVID-19 Resources Onsite Work Checklist: Employees Onsite Work Checklist: Supervisors Remote Work Positive Case Communication This COVID-19 resource page has been created to provide HR-related information and resources for employees and supervisors. Please check back often as updates are made in response to new policies and laws. Please contact us through AskHR via email or 541-737-3103. We are here to help! COVID-19 Leave Beyond Benefits Employee Assistance Program Supervisor Resources Care.com Resources Guidance from Health Insurance Providers Faculty & Staff COVID-19 Disaster Relief Fund OSU COVID-19 Home OSU COVID-19 FAQs Supervisor Tips If an employee comes to work and appears to be symptomatic, can the supervisor require that they leave? A supervisor cannot require an employee to leave based on their perception of what the employee is experiencing in terms of symptoms. In this instance, the supervisor should remind the employee about OSU’s COVID Safety & Success policy that requires employees who are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 to refrain from engaging in work activity associated with their OSU employment. Supervisors should also remind employees of leave options available to them. Supervisor support and further situational guidance is available through a Senior Employee and Labor Relations Officer. What do I do if an employee who reports to me thinks they may have COVID-19? If an employee is sick, it is essential that supervisors express concern for the employee’s well-being and advise the employee to stay home and isolate. Supervisors should advise the employee immediately to contact by phone their primary care provider, or if they are seriously ill, contact by phone an emergency medical care provider. Employees must fill out a Positive Case Communication form to assist in contact tracing. If the employee does not have a primary care health care provider, they can contact Student Health Services or the local county health department in the community in which they reside for referrals. Employees who engage with others outside of their household as part of their work at OSU or have been on-site at an OSU location in the previous 14 days and have tested positive for COVID-19 or have symptoms of COVID-19, are required to inform OSU. Additionally in that case, supervisors must review the Positive Case Notification website to learn about necessary notifications and next steps. Is time spent getting the COVID-19 vaccine considered work time? Vaccines and testing required by OSU may be done during work hours with pre-arrangement through the employee’s supervisor. What guidance can I provide to employees who are trying to navigate child care issues during COVID-19? Should families have transitional needs for flexibility in the workplace related to securing childcare arrangements heading into fall term 2021, they should discuss these needs with their supervisor. Supervisors may support short-term employee needs associated with organizing for childcare arrangements on a situational basis. The university recognizes that OSU parents may need to keep children home due to required quarantine or isolation protocols within K-12 schools. This may require an OSU parent or guardian to stay home to provide care. OSU is providing faculty, staff, graduate assistants and student employees an additional block of 80 hours of paid COVID-19 leave pro-rated based on FTE. This block of leave is intended to support employees at this new stage of the pandemic. This leave may be utilized Sept. 16, 2021, through June 30, 2022. It may only be used for the following reasons: Time off for the employee to quarantine or isolate as outlined in the OSU Quarantine and Isolation guidelines. Time off to care for a family member who is required to quarantine or isolate. Remote work arrangements during this time may also be appropriate depending on the situation and as arranged between the employee and their supervisor. As a reminder, the university does not support introducing children into OSU work environments during COVID-19. Bringing children, even older teenagers, to work is not an acceptable child care strategy. During Covid-19, supervisors are not authorized to approve such arrangements. The OSU Family Resource Center on the Corvallis campus is available for consultation regarding child care arrangements. Additional information provided by the Oregon Department of Education Early Learning Division can be found at the Oregon Early Learning website. OSU’s new employee assistance program Beyond Benefits also can help. Please contact AskHR@oregonstate.edu with additional questions. How are we handling recruitments? Search committees may choose to continue remote interview processes. On-site campus visits can also be considered at this time. In considering recruitment process design, please ensure equity of opportunity for all finalist candidates and advise visiting candidates of OSU’s face covering and other public health requirements. Language about the vaccine program and testing requirements is being added to job postings and welcome documents. Was the Oregon Family Leave Act (OFLA) expanded for COVID-19 reasons? In the 2021 legislative session an expansion to the Oregon Family Leave Act (OFLA) was passed. The bill expanded the definition of sick child leave to include providing home care to an employee’s child due to the closure of the child’s school or child care provider as a result of a public health emergency and allows for certain employer verification practices related to requests for this leave. Employees may contact the Protected Leave Officers in University Human Resources (UHR) at fmla@oregonstate.edu to find out more information about their eligibility for this leave. What leave options are available if I need to quarantine, isolate or care for a family member who needs to quarantine or isolate? OSU is providing faculty, staff, graduate assistants and student employees an additional block of 80 hours of paid COVID-19 leave pro-rated based on FTE. This block of leave is intended to support employees at this new stage of the pandemic. This leave may be utilized Sept. 16, 2021, through June 30, 2022. It may only be used for the following reasons: Time off for the employee to quarantine or isolate as outlined in the OSU Quarantine and Isolation guidelines. Time off to care for a family member who is required to quarantine or isolate. Onsite Work: Employees Onsite Work: Supervisors Positive Case Communication COVID-19 Leave COVID-19 Resources for Supervisors Faculty & Staff COVID-19 Disaster Relief Fund Under IRS Code Section 139 Employee Assistance Program Care.com Resources Other Resources Onsite Work: Employees › Contact Info University Human Resources, Oregon State University, 236 Kerr Administration Building, Corvallis, OR 97331-8578 Phone: 541-737-3103 Fax: 541-737-7771 or 541-737-0541 E-mail A division of Finance & Administration. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer