University Links Webmail Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Social Links Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Log in Human Resources Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Human Resources Site Menu Menu Careers Submenu Discover Princeton Submenu More Impact Than You Can Imagine Working at Princeton on YouTube Get to Know Us #Princetagram Diversity & Inclusion The Princeton Area Search Opportunities Submenu Find Your Career Career Centers Featured Jobs How We Hire Recruiter Tips New Hires Submenu Welcome to Princeton University @WorkingAtPrinceton Getting Started New Hire Orientation Housing Resources Life Submenu Community Submenu Life at Princeton Experience Our Community Princetagram Inclusive Princeton Employee Resource Groups Living in Princeton — New Jersey Campus Resources Professional Development Submenu Opportunities Learning Programs & Certificates Staff Educational Assistance Plan Performance Management & MIP Recognition Programs & Awards Service Recognition Program Working at Princeton Submenu Life at Princeton Work & Pay Schedules Flexibility & Time Off Compensation Commuting & Transportation Thrive Submenu Health Submenu Benefits at Princeton Healthcare Plans Benefits Plan Documents & Provider Contacts Eligibility & Enrollment Flexible Spending Accounts Disability & Leave Benefits Wellness Submenu Wellness Resources Physical Wellness Mental Wellness Financial Wellness Work Life Decision Support Employee Assistance Program Retirement & Financial Submenu Retirement & Financial Retirement Plans Financial Wellness Tuition Assistance Income Protection Financial Benefits Flexible Spending Accounts Discount & Affiliate Programs MyHR Submenu Working Submenu Community & Inclusion Health & Wellness Employment Professional Development New Hires Managing Submenu Management & Supervision Organizational Development Performance Management Professional Development Onboarding Recruiting Submenu Launch a Search Select Candidates Make a Hire HR Directory Submenu Office of the Vice President Senior Leadership Team Benefits & Compensation Client Services Communications Human Resources Information Systems Talent Acquisition Policies Submenu HR Policy & Procedures Manual COVID-19 Policies & Procedures University Policies Workplace Notices Collective Bargaining Agreements Other Policies Policy Updates Events News Quick Links SubMenu CAPS Login Employee Learning Center Employment & Income Verifications Forms Healthcare Plans HR Directory HR Self Service Policies Time & Absence Management Toolkits Update Personal Information University Links Webmail Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Social Links Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Log in Search Search Thrive Health Wellness Retirement & Financial Email Print Home Thrive Health Benefits at Princeton Princeton University provides benefits-eligible employees with a comprehensive, competitive suite of benefits designed to offer options to best meet the needs of our diverse faculty and staff. Enrollment in most traditional benefits, such as health, retirement, and life insurance, occurs within the first 31 days of employment. Changes to benefit elections are permissible to certain benefits anytime during the year and others annually or within 31 days of a life event. Healthcare Plans Princeton University provides benefits-eligible employees with comprehensive health insurance plans that offer the flexibility to select coverage that best meets individual's medical needs. There are several plans to choose from for medical, dental, and vision care needs. During the COVID-19 pandemic, refer to the Benefits Updates webpage for relevant information. The Benefits Comparison Tool provides a side-by-side comparison of the medical and dental plans offered by Princeton University, including premium amounts and covered services. This is only an estimation of benefits; for more details about covered services, refer to the Summary Plan Descriptions. Picwell, an online decision support tool, can help individuals select medical benefits for themselves and their families. After responding to a few key questions, Picwell will use the answers to provide a personalized health cost prediction and ranking for each health plan based on the individual’s unique health risks and preferences. Personal information obtained by Picwell is anonymous and is not stored or shared. Medical Several medical plan options with employee pretax contributions and no preexisting condition exclusions Consumer Directed Health Plan HMO Plan J-1 Visa Plan Aetna Princeton Health Plan UnitedHealthcare Princeton Health Plan Rates Supplemental Health Plan ACA COBRA Mental Health Princeton University offers a variety of mental health wellness resources for benefits-eligible faculty and staff and their dependents who need support and care. Visit Mental Health Wellness for more information. Prescription Drug All Princeton medical plans include prescription drug coverage with coverage varying based on medical plan election. Prescription Drug Plan Dental Several dental plan options with total pretax cost deductions DMO Plan Basic Option PPO Plan High Option PPO Plan Rates COBRA Vision A vision care option with total pretax cost deductions Vision Plan Rates COBRA Retiree For information about retiree plans, refer to Retiring from Princeton. Benefits Plan Documents & Provider Contacts The Benefits 2022 booklet provides a brief description of the benefits offered to benefits-eligible faculty and staff. More detailed information is provided in the Summary Plan Descriptions (SPDs) and Summary of Benefits Coverages (SBCs). Benefits 2022 Summary Plan Descriptions Summary of Benefits Coverage Benefits Provider Contacts Benefits Administrative Notices Refer to Benefits Updates During COVID-19 for important updates regarding Princeton University healthcare plans during the pandemic. In order to assist employees, HR's informational videos provide a high level overview of healthcare plans and other benefit topics. Eligibility & Enrollment Benefits provided by Princeton University are designed to meet the many needs of our diverse population. To take advantage of certain benefits such as medical, dental, and vision, employees must meet enrollment deadlines and, if covering dependents, provide documentation for coverage, as described below. Benefits Eligibility Tool The Benefits Eligibility tools provides information about the benefits available to employees based on their classification, duty time, and/or visa status This is only an estimation of benefits eligibility. Contact the Benefits Team for confirmation. Learn More Benefits Enrollment Employees must enroll in most traditional benefits, such as health and life insurance, within the first 31 days of employment. Changes to benefit elections are permissible to certain benefits anytime during the year; others may occur annually or within 31 days of a life event. Learn More Changing Your Benefits Each year employees have the opportunity to make changes to their benefits during the Annual Open Enrollment period. Otherwise, employees may change their healthcare and flexible spending accounts only if an employee experiences a Qualifying Life Event. Learn More Dependents' Eligibility & Verification Benefits eligible employees can enroll eligible dependents in medical, dental, and vision benefits. Dependent verification documentation is required within 31 days from the effective date of coverage. Unverified dependents may not have coverage. Learn More Retiree Eligibility & Enrollment To be eligible for retirement benefits, employees must meet certain conditions based on their most recent date of hire, date of rehire, and/or the date they became newly eligible for benefits. Learn More Benefits Comparison Tool The Benefits Comparison Tool provides a side-by-side comparison of the medical and dental plans offered by Princeton University, including premium amounts and covered services. This is only an estimation of benefits; for more details about covered services, refer to the Summary Plan Descriptions. Learn More Flexible Spending Accounts Princeton University offers various avenues for faculty and staff to minimize the taxes they pay, including flexible spending accounts to set money aside pretax to pay for healthcare and dependent care related expenses. Healthcare Flexible Spending Account The HFSA is a program to set aside money, before taxes, from each paycheck to pay for eligible health-related expenses not covered by insurance. Learn More Health Savings Account The HSA is a pretax savings account, administered by Payflex, for healthcare costs incurred now and in the future for most individuals enrolled in the CDHP. Learn More Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account The Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account (DFSA) allows faculty and staff to set aside money pretax to pay for childcare expenses for dependent children 12 years and under. Learn More Commuter Benefits Program The Commuter Benefits Program allows faculty and staff to deduct monthly public transportation commuting expenses pretax from their pay. Learn More Disability & Family Leave Benefits Princeton University provides benefits-eligible employees with very competitive short term and long term disability income replacement programs that allow individuals to focus on their recuperation. Faculty and staff may elect optional additional long-term disability insurance. All eligible employees are covered by our generous Workers’ Compensation Plan. Princeton also provides, in addition to the disability benefit, various paid and unpaid time off for the birth or adoption of a dependent child. Short Term Disability Plan Workers' Compensation Plan Long Term Disability Plan LTD Buy-Up Plan Maternity Family Medical Leave (FMLA) Policy NJ Paid Family Leave Plan Paid Family Leave Policy Office of Human Resources Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Main Office 100 Overlook Center Suite 400 Princeton, NJ 08540 Phone: (609) 258-3300 Fax: (609) 258-2420 Email: Email Us Contact: Contact Us About HR Website Feedback Media Credits Clery Act Confidentiality & Privacy Equal Opportunity Policy Labor Certification Notices Notices for H-1B/E3 Employees Privacy Notice Workplace Notices Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University