University Links Webmail Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Social Links Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Log in Human Resources Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Human Resources Site Menu Menu Careers Submenu Discover Princeton Submenu More Impact Than You Can Imagine Working at Princeton on YouTube Get to Know Us #Princetagram Diversity & Inclusion The Princeton Area Search Opportunities Submenu Find Your Career Career Centers Featured Jobs How We Hire Recruiter Tips New Hires Submenu Welcome to Princeton University @WorkingAtPrinceton Getting Started New Hire Orientation Housing Resources Life Submenu Community Submenu Life at Princeton Experience Our Community Princetagram Inclusive Princeton Employee Resource Groups Living in Princeton — New Jersey Campus Resources Professional Development Submenu Opportunities Learning Programs & Certificates Staff Educational Assistance Plan Performance Management & MIP Recognition Programs & Awards Service Recognition Program Working at Princeton Submenu Life at Princeton Work & Pay Schedules Flexibility & Time Off Compensation Commuting & Transportation Thrive Submenu Health Submenu Benefits at Princeton Healthcare Plans Benefits Plan Documents & Provider Contacts Eligibility & Enrollment Flexible Spending Accounts Disability & Leave Benefits Wellness Submenu Wellness Resources Physical Wellness Mental Wellness Financial Wellness Work Life Decision Support Employee Assistance Program Retirement & Financial Submenu Retirement & Financial Retirement Plans Financial Wellness Tuition Assistance Income Protection Financial Benefits Flexible Spending Accounts Discount & Affiliate Programs MyHR Submenu Working Submenu Community & Inclusion Health & Wellness Employment Professional Development New Hires Managing Submenu Management & Supervision Organizational Development Performance Management Professional Development Onboarding Recruiting Submenu Launch a Search Select Candidates Make a Hire HR Directory Submenu Office of the Vice President Senior Leadership Team Benefits & Compensation Client Services Communications Human Resources Information Systems Talent Acquisition Policies Submenu HR Policy & Procedures Manual COVID-19 Policies & Procedures University Policies Workplace Notices Collective Bargaining Agreements Other Policies Policy Updates Events News Quick Links SubMenu CAPS Login Employee Learning Center Employment & Income Verifications Forms Healthcare Plans HR Directory HR Self Service Policies Time & Absence Management Toolkits Update Personal Information University Links Webmail Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Social Links Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Log in Search Search Email Print Home Thrive Wellness Resources Employment & Income Verifications Information for Verifiers Princeton University utilizes The Work Number by Equifax to automate verifications of employment and accelerate qualifying decisions for faculty and staff. The online system is available to verifiers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Work Number has the most up-to-date income and employment information for Princeton employees. Verifiers who need to obtain proof of employment or income of current or former employees for commercial or social services verifications will need: Credentialed access to use The Work Number The Princeton University employer code, which is 14343 The employee’s Social Security number A permissible purpose for accessing the information, as defined by the Fair Credit Reporting Act Direct employee consent, if income or salary information is needed Verifiers who are able to complete the verification of employment through The Work Number can visit their website or call 1-800-367-5690. Commercial Verifications include mortgage lenders, pre-employment, property leasing, credit cards, etc. Social Services Verifications* include Medicaid, SSI/SSDI, SNAP, TANF, Child Support, Public Housing, etc. *Available to qualifying assistance agencies only For wage garnishments or student verifications, verifiers should contact the University's Payroll Department at (609) 258-3082 or payroll@princeton.edu. Information for Faculty & Staff Accessing The Work Number to Obtain Your Own Verification Faculty and staff can access personal information, Employment Data Reports, and Salary Keys on The Work Number website or by calling 1-800-367-5690. When employees access The Work Number for the first time, they are guided through some simple account setup steps. An employer code will be required to enter — the Princeton University employer code is 14343. The site protects data privacy using a secure, risk-based authentication system similar to many banking and financial services sites. Employment Data Report An Employment Data Report (EDR), in accordance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act, provides complete historical employment and income information, as well as a listing of all verifiers who have attempted to access employee records through The Work Number over the past two years. Faculty and staff are entitled to access one free EDR each year. Salary Keys A Salary Key is a single-use, six-digit code that can be provided to a verifier as consent to access income information. In most cases, consent will have been provided at the point of application for a service — signing a loan application or similar agreement — and a Salary Key is not required. Employment & Income Verifications Request For verification of employment or income that cannot be processed through The Work Number, requests must be made in writing and include a signed authorization form with the employee’s signature. Princeton’s authorization form may be used if the requestor is unable to provide their own authorization form. A signature authorizing the release of information is required. If the signature is not on the form, it will delay processing. HR makes every attempt to complete verification in a timely fashion. Please include the employee’s name in the subject line, indicate if the request was not able to be processed through the Work Number, and send the request to: Princeton University Office of Human Resources 100 Overlook Center, Suite 400 Princeton, NJ 08540 hr@princeton.edu For individuals requesting employment verification for a Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) application, email the application to the Office of Human Resources and an authorized representative will complete and certify Section 3 and 4 of the form. The Work Number, Fair Credit Reporting Act, & Your Privacy The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) regulates how credit reporting agencies and others handle information. Under FCRA, Equifax is a Consumer Reporting Agency and subject to its requirements. It is committed to safeguarding privacy and fully complying with FCRA requirements. For more information about The Work Number by Equifax, review About The Work Number. If there are any discrepancies between the information in this publication, verbal representations, and the plan documents, the plan documents always govern. Although Princeton intends to continue these benefits, the University reserves the right to amend or terminate these plans at any time. Related documents About The Work Number Employee Guide to The Work Number Employment Verification Request Form Office of Human Resources Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Main Office 100 Overlook Center Suite 400 Princeton, NJ 08540 Phone: (609) 258-3300 Fax: (609) 258-2420 Email: Email Us Contact: Contact Us About HR Website Feedback Media Credits Clery Act Confidentiality & Privacy Equal Opportunity Policy Labor Certification Notices Notices for H-1B/E3 Employees Privacy Notice Workplace Notices Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University