University Links Webmail Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Social Links Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Log in Human Resources Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Human Resources Site Menu Menu Careers Submenu Discover Princeton Submenu More Impact Than You Can Imagine Working at Princeton on YouTube Get to Know Us #Princetagram Diversity & Inclusion The Princeton Area Search Opportunities Submenu Find Your Career Career Centers Featured Jobs How We Hire Recruiter Tips New Hires Submenu Welcome to Princeton University @WorkingAtPrinceton Getting Started New Hire Orientation Housing Resources Life Submenu Community Submenu Life at Princeton Experience Our Community Princetagram Inclusive Princeton Employee Resource Groups Living in Princeton — New Jersey Campus Resources Professional Development Submenu Opportunities Learning Programs & Certificates Staff Educational Assistance Plan Performance Management & MIP Recognition Programs & Awards Service Recognition Program Working at Princeton Submenu Life at Princeton Work & Pay Schedules Flexibility & Time Off Compensation Commuting & Transportation Thrive Submenu Health Submenu Benefits at Princeton Healthcare Plans Benefits Plan Documents & Provider Contacts Eligibility & Enrollment Flexible Spending Accounts Disability & Leave Benefits Wellness Submenu Wellness Resources Physical Wellness Mental Wellness Financial Wellness Work Life Decision Support Employee Assistance Program Retirement & Financial Submenu Retirement & Financial Retirement Plans Financial Wellness Tuition Assistance Income Protection Financial Benefits Flexible Spending Accounts Discount & Affiliate Programs MyHR Submenu Working Submenu Community & Inclusion Health & Wellness Employment Professional Development New Hires Managing Submenu Management & Supervision Organizational Development Performance Management Professional Development Onboarding Recruiting Submenu Launch a Search Select Candidates Make a Hire HR Directory Submenu Office of the Vice President Senior Leadership Team Benefits & Compensation Client Services Communications Human Resources Information Systems Talent Acquisition Policies Submenu HR Policy & Procedures Manual COVID-19 Policies & Procedures University Policies Workplace Notices Collective Bargaining Agreements Other Policies Policy Updates Events News Quick Links SubMenu CAPS Login Employee Learning Center Employment & Income Verifications Forms Healthcare Plans HR Directory HR Self Service Policies Time & Absence Management Toolkits Update Personal Information University Links Webmail Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Social Links Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Log in Search Search More Impact Than You Can Imagine Our mission provides every staff member the opportunity to make a meaningful impact. careers Discover Princeton Search Opportunities New Hires Email Print Home Careers Discover Princeton Announcement In order to ensure a healthy and safe work environment, Princeton University is requiring all employees to be fully vaccinated, including subsequent boosters, and provide proof of their COVID-19 vaccine status before their start date. Employees who cannot receive the vaccine because of a disability/medical contraindication or sincerely-held religious belief may request an accommodation (e.g., an exemption) to this requirement. Learn more about the COVID-19 vaccine requirement. This requirement helps enable our employees to thrive in their careers at Princeton and make the greatest impact on all those we serve through the University. More Impact Than You Can Imagine At Princeton University, every member of the community plays an important role in fulfilling our mission of teaching and research. That mission provides every employee with the opportunity to make an impact bigger than oneself. Impact the World Around You At Princeton, you have the opportunity to make a meaningful impact on students, faculty, researchers, other staff, the local community, and even the world. You also have the opportunity to realize your own personal goals, build strong relationships, be recognized for the work you do, and enjoy the unique value only the Princeton employment experience can offer. Working at Princeton on YouTube Subscribe Name Daniel Chin: "We're here to help the greater good" Name Cheri Burgess: "There's no better place than Princeton" Name Steve Iannacone: "There's a sense of belonging to something bigger than yourself" Get to Know Us Ensuring the success of our world-class University takes the efforts of many. As an employer, Princeton University offers many different types of jobs. Whether you’re a security officer or software developer, accountant or academic manager, you will help further the University’s mission in a variety of impactful ways. Learn more about the pride our staff feel in the work that they do. Testimonial photo Name Donald Juarez Department Facilities, Operations Postion Landscaper Description “The best part about working at Princeton is that sense of accomplishment at the completion of a job. Seeing my coworkers at the end of the day with a big smile on their face and complimenting each other on a job well done makes me proud.” photo Name Shelley Jannos Department Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students Postion Administrative Assistant Description “The best part about working at Princeton are my colleagues. We work really hard, but we laugh a lot. It gives me a great sense of pride when students come back to let us know how our office helped them in their personal and professional lives.” #Princetagram Follow Us Diversity & Inclusion Diversity and inclusion are central to Princeton University’s educational mission and its desire to serve society. The University aims to provide: All members of the community with a vibrant and inclusive experience A sense of belonging through a shared commitment to leveraging both commonalities and differences through collaboration and innovation Opportunities for employees to exercise their fullest potential and make the most positive impact Princeton’s commitment to diversity and inclusion for employees is a part of the broader University ManyVoicesOneFuture efforts. Princeton, New Jersey Princeton University’s historic campus is revered for its architectural and natural beauty. Situated alongside tree-lined streets, specialty shops, restaurants, parks, and a friendly and safe atmosphere, Princeton is a wonderful location for employees and visitors. Our 500-acre residential campus community is located in central New Jersey between Philadelphia and New York City in a cosmopolitan town of approximately 30,000 residents. The University is accessible by many means of transportation, including Amtrak and NJ Transit, and has its own NJ Transit train station on campus. Learn about living in the Princeton-Mercer Region and the housing resources we offer. Office of Human Resources Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Main Office 100 Overlook Center Suite 400 Princeton, NJ 08540 Phone: (609) 258-3300 Fax: (609) 258-2420 Email: Email Us Contact: Contact Us About HR Website Feedback Media Credits Clery Act Confidentiality & Privacy Equal Opportunity Policy Labor Certification Notices Notices for H-1B/E3 Employees Privacy Notice Workplace Notices Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University