University Links Webmail Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Social Links Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Log in Human Resources Off screen: Skip to content Off screen: Skip to search Human Resources Site Menu Menu Careers Submenu Discover Princeton Submenu More Impact Than You Can Imagine Working at Princeton on YouTube Get to Know Us #Princetagram Diversity & Inclusion The Princeton Area Search Opportunities Submenu Find Your Career Career Centers Featured Jobs How We Hire Recruiter Tips New Hires Submenu Welcome to Princeton University @WorkingAtPrinceton Getting Started New Hire Orientation Housing Resources Life Submenu Community Submenu Life at Princeton Experience Our Community Princetagram Inclusive Princeton Employee Resource Groups Living in Princeton — New Jersey Campus Resources Professional Development Submenu Opportunities Learning Programs & Certificates Staff Educational Assistance Plan Performance Management & MIP Recognition Programs & Awards Service Recognition Program Working at Princeton Submenu Life at Princeton Work & Pay Schedules Flexibility & Time Off Compensation Commuting & Transportation Thrive Submenu Health Submenu Benefits at Princeton Healthcare Plans Benefits Plan Documents & Provider Contacts Eligibility & Enrollment Flexible Spending Accounts Disability & Leave Benefits Wellness Submenu Wellness Resources Physical Wellness Mental Wellness Financial Wellness Work Life Decision Support Employee Assistance Program Retirement & Financial Submenu Retirement & Financial Retirement Plans Financial Wellness Tuition Assistance Income Protection Financial Benefits Flexible Spending Accounts Discount & Affiliate Programs MyHR Submenu Working Submenu Community & Inclusion Health & Wellness Employment Professional Development New Hires Managing Submenu Management & Supervision Organizational Development Performance Management Professional Development Onboarding Recruiting Submenu Launch a Search Select Candidates Make a Hire HR Directory Submenu Office of the Vice President Senior Leadership Team Benefits & Compensation Client Services Communications Human Resources Information Systems Talent Acquisition Policies Submenu HR Policy & Procedures Manual COVID-19 Policies & Procedures University Policies Workplace Notices Collective Bargaining Agreements Other Policies Policy Updates Events News Quick Links SubMenu CAPS Login Employee Learning Center Employment & Income Verifications Forms Healthcare Plans HR Directory HR Self Service Policies Time & Absence Management Toolkits Update Personal Information University Links Webmail Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Social Links Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Log in Search Search Thrive Health Wellness Retirement & Financial Email Print Home Thrive Wellness Wellness Resources Princeton University provides many benefits, programs, and policies designed to support the diverse population throughout individuals’ careers and work life. Read more to learn about the many offerings available to faculty, staff, and family members. Introducing the New Employee Wellness Center @ 350 Alexander In our new space, you’ll find support to help you care for yourself and your family, so you can thrive at work and at home. Whatever challenges you’re facing, help is available. Schedule a free, confidential appointment with one of these resources: My Health Coach: Call (866) 237-0973 Carebridge: Call (800) 437-0911 or visit their appointment website TIAA: Call (800) 732-8353 or schedule online CAPTRUST: Call (800) 967-9948 or visit their website Isles: Learn more about their programs and services Doctors In Your Office: Schedule online All meetings take place in private rooms to ensure confidentiality. Appointments are required and convenient parking is available onsite. Certain programs will continue to offer virtual meetings. 350 Alexander Street, Princeton, NJ Physical Wellness Princeton University is committed to providing faculty, staff, and their families with personalized and confidential resources, at no cost, to minimize health costs and maximize health and wellness. The resources range from online tools to make better healthcare decisions to on-site personal health coaches. Teladoc Medical Experts Teladoc Medical Experts is a healthcare resource that provides confidential access to physical and mental health advice from the world’s leading physicians. This free program helps participants make informed healthcare decisions with greater confidence and ensures patients are getting the right care. Learn More Health Advocate Health Advocate helps faculty and staff and their family members, including parents and in-laws, navigate the often complex healthcare system. Learn More MSK Direct MSK Direct, through Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, provides direct access to a team of professionals who specialize in cancer care to guide eligible faculty and staff through the process of diagnosis and treatment and oversee one’s care experience every step of the way. Learn More My Health Coach Professional health coaches provide confidential personalized assistance to help individuals reach their personal health goals. Coaches are available to meet on campus or by phone. They are employees of TrestleTree, an accredited health transformation organization. Learn More Doctors In Your Office Doctors In Your Office provide free and convenient on-campus physicals for staff at the Employee Wellness Center. Learn More Mental Wellness Princeton University recognizes that the mental health of faculty, staff, and their families is just as important as their physical health. Many resources are available, and assistance is easy to find. Mental Wellness Resources Princeton University cares about the mental health of its employees and their families, yet we also recognize that many people may be hesitant to speak up and seek help. If you are dealing with a mental health concern, please know, you are not alone. Learn More Resources For All Benefits-Eligible Employees & Dependents Teladoc Medical Experts Teladoc Medical Experts is a healthcare resource that provides confidential access to physical and mental health advice from the world’s leading physicians. This free program helps participants make informed healthcare decisions with greater confidence and ensures patients are getting the right care. Learn More Employee Assistance Program (EAP): Carebridge The EAP, offered through Carebridge, is available to help faculty, staff, and eligible dependents cope with everyday life challenges, including anxiety, depression, grief, relationship issues, substance abuse, and more. Learn More Resources For Benefits-Eligible Employees & Dependents Enrolled in a Princeton Medical Plan AbleTo Available to Princeton medical plan participants, AbleTo can help individuals gain control of their medical condition or life change by addressing emotional challenges that can come with a diagnosis. Learn More Teladoc Available to all Princeton medical plan participants, Teladoc telemedicine and behavioral health services are convenient and affordable options that allow individuals to speak with a U.S. board-certified doctor or licensed health provider by phone, video, or mobile app. Learn More Financial Wellness Financial wellness is important to everyone at all ages and, for this reason, Princeton University offers many avenues to access financial planning assistance. Financial planning helps individuals and families manage day-to-day living expenses; pay off debt; save toward a goal, e.g., buying a home or sending a child to college; and plan for retirement. Learn about and take advantage of the various resources Princeton provides. CAPTRUST CAPTRUST is an independent investment advisory firm that provides confidential investment and financial advice to participants in the Princeton University retirement plans. Learn More Isles Isles Financial Solutions (IFS) is a money management and credit improvement service designed to help individuals take charge of their financial future. Learn More Retirement Savings Plan The Princeton University Retirement Savings Plan (RSP) is a 403(b) defined contribution plan that allows participants to save money for retirement on a pretax and/or after-tax (Roth) basis. Learn More Work Life Taking care of your overall health and wellness is an important part of your contribution to Princeton's mission, and having work-life balance is a critical piece of this equation. Select "View All" or a category below to access the Wellness Resources Tool to find the resources and programs available to assist and support you and your family’s needs. Home & Family Health & Wellness Financial Benefit Arts, Social, & Community Discount Programs View All Decision Support Princeton University is committed to providing a range of resources to assist and support our faculty and staff with their personal and family needs. Tools offered vary from financial planning to benefit plan elections. In addition to the below resources, the University also offers Picwell, an online decision support tool, designed to help individuals select medical benefits for themselves and their families. After responding to a few key questions, Picwell will use the answers to provide a personalized health cost prediction and ranking for each health plan based on the individual’s unique health risks and preferences. Personal information obtained by Picwell is anonymous and is not stored or shared. Wellness Resources Tool Teladoc Medical Experts Castlight Health Advocate Employee Assistance Program (EAP): Carebridge The EAP, offered through Carebridge, is available to help faculty, staff, and eligible dependents cope with everyday life challenges, including anxiety, depression, grief, relationship issues, substance abuse, and more.Read more about Employee Assistance Program (EAP): Carebridge Office of Human Resources Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Main Office 100 Overlook Center Suite 400 Princeton, NJ 08540 Phone: (609) 258-3300 Fax: (609) 258-2420 Email: Email Us Contact: Contact Us About HR Website Feedback Media Credits Clery Act Confidentiality & Privacy Equal Opportunity Policy Labor Certification Notices Notices for H-1B/E3 Employees Privacy Notice Workplace Notices Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University