Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Information for… Managers and Supervisors Compensation Overview for Managers Position Evaluation Procedures Position Evaluation Procedures Position Evaluation is a process that uses the information provided on the Position Evaluation Request (PER) Template to identify, analyze and measure each position’s job description against internal equity and external competitiveness. This form may be used as a resource to draft job descriptions for positions prior to submitting online, as well as a useful tool to provide insight when collaborating with your Sr. HR Business Partner. See Helpful Links below on guidance to developing job descriptions and other information on how the university classifies and pays for staff positions. Position Evaluation Requests are submitted through My Slice > Human Resources and Payroll Systems > Position Evaluation Request and automatically flow through the PER process to the HR Compensation team. How to guides are available on answers.syr.edu which is also linked below under Helpful Links. You can also contact your department administrator for more information. The system allows for a variety of position and compensation related requests. Examples of the types of requests range from minimal changes such as documenting a job description or requesting a department number change to requesting new positions or significant changes to existing positions based on an organizational restructure. The HR Compensation team will evaluate the position and assign the appropriate updated position criteria. If there are minimal changes to existing positions, no other approvals are required. For new positions, vacant positions the department would like to fill and positions with significant updates (including compensation implications), departmental approvals are required prior to Compensation’s review. These approvals typically include your unit head and Budget Manager. After it is approved and the position has been classified by Compensation with the appropriate category, title and pay band, it will move to the Office of Budget and Planning for budget review and approval. When funding is agreed upon, the request will go to the appropriate executive leadership for final approval. Once finalized, the position will be updated in the system, and if applicable be posted on sujobopps.com with the assistance of the Talent Management team. Reviewing PERs during the annual Performance Partnership is best practice. PERs should be updated at least every five years, even if staff continue to remain in the same position. Updating job descriptions ensures all staff are classified correctly in an evolving workforce. Helpful Links Position Requests step-by-step instructions to help guide you through submitting a position request. Sample Job Description Statements [PDF] and Action Verbs [PDF] guide to help identify and describe the major responsibilities of a position. Job Classification Model explains the basic job requirements for each category. Pay for Staff Positions Bargaining Unit Positions For bargaining unit staff positions, copies of job specifications (brief summary descriptions) may be requested by contacting a senior labor relations specialist. The collective bargaining agreement sets parameters for who can be selected for bargaining unit positions. It is extremely important that the job posting clearly lists the specific qualifications needed for the position. For assistance in developing the posting, or questions regarding the bargaining unit recruitment process, please contact a labor relations specialist. More from this Section Fair Labor Standards Act Overview Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy