Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Information for… Retirees Health Benefits for Retirees Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 If you retired prior to Jan. 1, 2006, the following rules apply. If you retire(d) on or after Jan. 1, 2006, please review Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006. On this page: Link Eligibility for Medical Coverage Coverage Prior to Attaining Age 65 Coverage After Attaining Age 65 Through the Five-Year Period Extended Retiree Medical After Expiration of the Five-Year Period The Health Plans and the Marketplace Helpful Links Eligibility for Medical Coverage Link To be eligible for coverage under the Syracuse University Retiree Medical Benefits Plan that is described below, you must have retired prior to Jan. 1, 2006, satisfied certain transition group requirements, and complied with certain other eligibility requirements. Coverage for retirees and their qualified dependents is described below. Coverage Prior to Attaining Age 65 Link Two medical plan options were offered to eligible retirees: SUBlue or SUOrange. The costs for the coverage are based on the plan selected. Prescription drug coverage administered by OptumRx will be available to eligible retirees and their qualified dependents under the Syracuse University Retiree Prescription Drug plan. Contributions required for eligible retirees are generally the same as those paid by eligible active employees (subject to modifications as may be announced from time to time by the University’s Office of Human Resources). Coverage After Attaining Age 65 and Through the End of the Five-Year Period Link Coverage is available to an eligible retiree and their qualified dependents through the end of the five-year period that commences on the date the eligible retiree becomes eligible for Medicare OR the date the eligible retiree retires from the University, whichever is later. Medicare Part A and Part B become the primary medical coverage sources upon attaining age 65. The costs for Medicare coverages are paid by the eligible retiree. Supplemental medical-only coverage is offered to an eligible retiree and their qualified dependents through the SUBlue or SUOrange programs. Prescription drug coverage administered by OptumRx will be available to eligible retirees and their qualified dependents under the Retiree Prescription Drug plan through the end of the five-year period. The University pays 100 percent of the premium costs after age 65 and through the end of the five-year period, if the eligibility requirements are met. Extended Retiree Medical After Expiration of the Five-Year Period Link Medicare Part A and Part B continue to be an eligible retiree’s primary medical coverage sources, paid by the eligible retiree. Supplemental medical-only coverage can be continued through the SUBlue or SUOrange options. Prescription drug coverage is available through Medicare Part D to those who satisfy the applicable eligibility requirements. Costs for this coverage are paid directly by the covered retiree. There is no University subsidy for the extended retiree medical coverage under the Retiree Medical Plan after expiration of the five-year period. The Health Plans and the Marketplace Link All retiree health plans meet the requirements of the Affordable Care Act. However, given the variety of health insurance options available through the Marketplace of private insurers and the subsidies available, you may want to consider whether private insurance is a good option for you and your dependents. More information on the Marketplace is available by phone at 800.318.2596 (Federal) and 855.355.5777 (New York State), and online at healthcare.gov (federal) or nystateofhealth.ny.gov (New York State). You should also compare the coverage and cost of these plans with those available to you through a spouse or domestic partner. Should you have questions, please contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042. Helpful Links Link Medicare Part D Prescription Benefit Medigap and Medicare Advantage Plans for All Medicare-eligible Retirees The benefits listed above apply as indicated to retired and emeritus faculty and retired staff members of Syracuse University. All benefits programs are subject to change. If any discrepancies exist between program-related communications and the Plan Document, the terms and conditions detailed in the Plan Document will control. More from this Section Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006 © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy