Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Dedicated to your success Providing the resources, services and support all of our faculty and staff members need to succeed at Syracuse University. Featured Pages Professional Development Opportunities for staff and supervisors Syracuse.edu/StaySafe Faculty and Staff information Performance Partnership Care@Work by Care.com WorkLife Benefits and Resources Previous slide Next slide With nearly 5,000 benefits-eligible employees, Syracuse University is home to a diverse community of individuals who support our academic mission and our students. Our gorgeous 708-acre campus is a great place to teach, research, work, and recreate. Whether you are part-time staff or tenured faculty, the Office of Human Resources is dedicated to providing you with the services, information, and support you need to succeed. To learn more, contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042 or email hrservice@syr.edu. News & Headlines COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow May 27, 2022 Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our campus given summer break, supports an adjustment to our campus COVID Level and associated masking… COVID-19 Update: Public Health Protocols for Summer 2022 May 17, 2022 Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: With the 2021-22 academic year officially behind us, I want to again express my gratitude for the cooperation and flexibility of our students, faculty and staff, who committed to the public health safeguards necessary to maintain a robust residential academic experience over the past year. It has taken a… 2022 Summer Office Hours May 12, 2022 Summer office hours for Syracuse University will begin on Monday, May 16, and will be in effect through Friday, Aug. 26. Summer office hours are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Academic-year hours will resume on Monday, Aug. 29. If you have any questions, please contact Shared Services at 315.443.4042… Read More News Events Reflection, Renewal and Our New Normal June 1, 2022 at 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm By reflecting on our experiences of loss and life over the past year, together we will discover a shared sense of renewal, both personally and professionally. Since the onset of COVID-19 all have been impacted, both individually and collectively, and this session will encourage participants to embrace a “new normal” that can spark and sustain fulfillment. This session will explore and guide participants toward: acknowledgment of grief and sorrow as a consequence of loss affirmation of new possibilities in response to times of adversity resistance of temptation to “return to normal” embrace opportunities of our “new normal” Introduction to Emotional Intelligence for Supervisors June 8, 2022 at 10:00 am – 12:00 pm This session will introduce the components of Emotional Intelligence, explore the personal and professional benefits of Emotional Intelligence, provide clarity for understanding the connection between Emotional Intelligence and effective supervision, identify the advantages that Emotional Intelligence can provide in the workplace, and provide strategies for supervisors to increase their own Emotional Intelligence. Performance Partnership for Supervisors June 10, 2022 at 9:30 am – 11:30 am The Supervisor session is designed to ensure the Performance Partnership process, including both form completion and the subsequent meeting between supervisor and staff member is productive and effective. The workshop will review providing accurate and honest feedback, navigating difficult conversations with employees, communicating performance expectations and creating goals with staff that will help advance the initiatives of the University. Manage the Conflict Within – Personal Development June 13, 2022 at 10:00 am – 11:30 am How can a positive environment be created by framing our own actions? Learn about how to utilize an understanding of positive Life Forces and negative Life Forces and 10 natural Universal Laws. Realize what you want and how to create it. This workshop will help you to reframe and refocus your environment into what you would like it to be. Performance Partnership for Staff June 13, 2022 at 1:00 pm – 2:30 pm For those new to the Syracuse University Performance Partnership process, this staff session is designed to ensure the process, including both form completion and the subsequent meeting between supervisor and staff member, is productive and effective. The workshop will provide an overview of the staff member’s role in the Performance Partnership process highlighting the tool and resources available, including creating SMART goals that will help advance the initiatives of the department and University. Syracuse Workforce Run (formerly the J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge) June 21, 2022 at 6:45 pm – 7:45 pm Onondaga Lake Parkway, Liverpool Come together for fitness and fun! Syracuse University is a proud participant in the 2022 Syracuse Workforce Run – an annual 5K run/walk/roll that brings local businesses together to promote health and exercise while supporting a great charity. All benefits-eligible faculty and staff who meet the Syracuse Workforce Run event eligibility requirements are invited to join the University Team! An optional couch-to-5K training program, led by Dean Cole Smith from the College of Engineering and Computer Science, will be available for those who wish to train ahead of the race. Full Event Calendar © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy