Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home WorkLife Benefits and Resources Care@Work by Care.com Care@Work by Care.com Syracuse University’s partnership with Care@Work by Care.com is ongoing for family care benefits. We know that life is unpredictable, so to help alleviate some of these unexpected challenges, we are providing you with Care.com membership services. Finding the right ongoing care for your family can be hard, especially when you’re balancing the demands of work. Whether it’s keeping the kids on track with distance learning, ensuring someone is watching the kids while you work from home, after-school care, or the responsibility for aging parents, sometimes you need additional support. Enroll now to access these benefits* *You will use your (9-digit) Syracuse University ID to register. About Care.com and your membership Link Premium, unlimited access to Care.com to find caregivers, tutors, senior caregivers, pet walkers and sitters, house cleaners, and more. How it works Link Log in to your account in the Care.com app or Syracuse University’s Care@Work website. Search for caregiver profiles that match your needs in your area, or post a job for candidates to apply to. You can schedule interviews from any device and request background checks. Once you’re ready to hire, you can schedule and pay for your caregiver on Care.com. Care.com offers tools and resources to help you hire safely. Learn more at Care.com safety center. Care.com FAQ Link What does my Care.com membership include? Link You get unlimited access to the world’s largest network of caregivers. There, you can explore detailed caregiver profiles in your area, post a job for caregivers to apply to, access the Care.com Safety Center and background check options, send real-time payments to caregivers, and even learn about household payroll and tax assistance. What precautions does Care.com take to maintain a safe community? Link Your family’s well-being is important. That’s why Care.com offers tools and resources to help you evaluate risk and stay savvy about safety. At Care.com safety center you can find: Safety guides to help you make safer decisions throughout your caregiver search Background Check Guide Option to request and run a background check on a caregiver Safety resources to stay informed and help keep you and your family safe Safety FAQs How do I pay for care? Link You can pay caregivers directly, through the Care.com website or Care.com app. What if I already have a Care.com account? Link If you already have a Care.com account created to find caregivers, you will need to merge the account with your company-sponsored membership. During enrollment, take the following steps: Visit Syracuse University's Care@Work website Click on “Let’s Get Started” and follow the prompts When you see “Are you new to Care.com?” select “No.” Enter the email address and password associated with your existing Care.com account. You will be prompted to provide your unique employee identifier to verify your eligibility for the employer-sponsored membership. What if I need accessibility support to access my Care.com Membership? Link To the extent that Syracuse University members with disabilities need assistance accessing any part of Care.com’s user experience, they may call the Care.com Expert Assistance team at this designated phone line 855.781.1303 ext. 4. Who is eligible for the Care.com membership? Link Benefits-eligible faculty and staff are eligible for the Care.com membership at no cost. Who should I contact if I am a benefits-eligible faculty or staff member, however, I am having trouble enrolling in the Care.com membership? Link Please contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042 (press 1 for HR). A member of the HR Shared Services team will assist in confirming your Care.com eligibility and provide you with next steps, as necessary. More from this Section Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness WorkLife Learning Opportunities Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy