Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home WorkLife Benefits and Resources Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements For the Spring 2022 semester, the University will implement a pilot program for Flexible Work Arrangements (FWA) designed to expand the use of flexibility of working locations and hours worked in circumstances in which the schedule can better meet the needs of the University and staff. The primary aspects of the pilot program are as follows: Flexible work for non-student-facing positions Link The University will support flexible work for non-student-facing positions with the following criteria: The flexible work arrangement must have the written approval of the dean or senior vice president prior to submittal. The supervisor and employee requesting the arrangement must ensure that the FWA will not impact the employee’s day-to-day job duties or expectations. If the flexible work arrangement involves remote work, it must not exceed more than two days away from the campus or office location in any week. The employee’s supervisor/leader will monitor work and performance through establishing clear goals, regular communications (weekly 1:1 meetings) and by ensuring the employee’s full participation in all group/team meetings and events. The employee seeking a flexible work arrangement must have a current Performance Partnership on file with the Office of Human Resources (HR), with a rating, at minimum, of “On-Track” or “Meets Expectations.” A new flexible work arrangement must be submitted and approved before the flexible work may begin. Hiring for remote work Link The University will begin hiring remote staff for certain functions, including information technology, advancement and marketing. The remote hiring must have prior approval of the dean or senior vice president at the time the position is submitted for approval. Based on the spring 2022 pilot experience, during the summer of 2022, the University will gather information and feedback from the University community to consider additional expansion and modification of flexible work . The FWA should be primarily used to increase operational efficiency and must be a mutually beneficial arrangement for the University, department and eligible staff member. The availability of FWAs varies by each school, college, unit and position based on business and operational needs. The dean or senior vice president must be directly involved in and approve any plan for a flexible work arrangement. FWAs are only appropriate for benefits-eligible staff employees. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any employee who is represented for collective bargaining purposes by a labor union shall only be eligible for a flexible work arrangement to the extent flexible work arrangements have been agreed to by the applicable union and employer. Supervisors must work with employees to develop effective FWA plans that support the functions of the department, school/college and University; and HR will partner with departments to coach and guide supervisors, as well as eligible staff, through the process to determine approval and to ensure each arrangement satisfies the general University requirements that apply as described in the Flexible Work Policy. In certain instances, Family Medical Leave or Paid Family Leave are more appropriate options than flexible work arrangements. For more information visit FMLA and Other University Leaves. Complete FWA Form On this page: Link Eligibility Types of Flexible Work Arrangements Considerations for Success Effect on Paid Time Off Policies Related to Flexible Work Eligibility Link Benefits-eligible staff employees are generally eligible to explore a flexible work arrangement. The availability of flexible work arrangements varies widely by school/college, unit and position based on business and operational needs and approvals are made at the discretion of a staff member’s supervisor and dean or senior vice president. However, there are certain positions that cannot be adapted to an FWA, such as when the position involves frequent on-campus interactions or when the role does not have flexibility to accommodate shift changes. Any employee who is represented for collective bargaining purposes by a labor union shall only be eligible for a flexible work arrangement to the extent flexible work arrangements have been agreed to by the applicable union and employer. Consult the Flexible Work Policy and the Benefits Eligibility Policy, or ask your senior HR business partner or labor relations specialist if you have questions about eligibility for an FWA. Types of Flexible Work Arrangements Link The following flexible work arrangements will be considered: Hybrid Workweek: Work from a remote location, no more than two days per week; the same number of schedule work hours are retained. (Spring 2022 option). Flextime/Staggered Shifts: Work start and end times differ from the standard; the same number of scheduled work hours per week are retained. (i.e., shifting your workday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.). Fully Remote Work: Work arrangement in which a staff member works all hours from a location not owned by the University. Tax and regulatory concerns need to be addressed if the remote location is outside of New York state. Compressed Work Schedule: Alternative schedule that compresses a normal workweek into fewer than five days, but not fewer than three days; the same number of scheduled work hours per week are retained. (i.e., moving from working five eight-hour days to four 10-hour days.) Considerations for Success Link The employee and the supervisor will work with the senior HR business partner to consider the following: Are the position and the job responsibilities a good fit for Flexible Work Arrangements? What is the impact of the FWA on those who depend upon the eligible staff member’s services? What is the impact of the FWA proposal on the needs of the department and University? Does the eligible staff member’s work style fit well with a FWA? Does the eligible staff member meet or exceed performance standards? Does the FWA impact the eligible staff member’s current benefits and pay? Are there core work hours for the department that are not flexible and must be worked by all staff members to meet the operational needs of the department? What are the cost considerations such as equipment and services? Are there confidentiality and security considerations that need to be addressed? Effect on Paid Time Off Link The accrual and use of paid time off benefits may be affected by a flexible work arrangement, as follows: Flextime/Staggered Shift: The appropriate number of work hours should be deducted for holiday, floating holiday, sick, and vacation time regardless of whether the start/end times or lunch time is flexed. Remote Work: Paid time off benefits for a remote work/telecommuting day are to be handled as they would be for a day working in the office. The appropriate number of work hours should be deducted for holiday, sick, and vacation time whether the employee is telecommuting or working in the office that day. Compressed Work Schedule: Vacation time, floating holiday time, personal business time and sick time should be viewed in terms of “hours available” for the purposes of deducting from the bank of a compressed work schedule employee. If a holiday falls on an employee’s regularly scheduled workday, the employee shall receive pay for his/her regularly scheduled work hours. If a holiday falls on an employee’s day off, holiday pay is not granted. This rule applies to all employees, regardless of flexible schedule status, and is unchanged by flexible work arrangements. Policies Related to Flexible Work Link Depending on the employee’s circumstances, there may be policies and procedures that should be reviewed with respect to a flexible work arrangement. Prior to speaking with your senior HR business partner about a potential flexible work arrangement, please review the Flexible Work Policy in its entirety, including the related policies listed at the end of the policy. Eligible staff members who would like to request a flexible work arrangement should initiate the conversation with their immediate supervisor, who will collaborate with senior leadership and their senior HR business partner. Frequently Asked Questions Link Do all jobs lend themselves flexible work arrangements? Link No, not all jobs are suitable for flexible work arrangements. The approval and success of a Flexible Work Arrangement is dependent on it being a mutually beneficial arrangement for the University, department, and eligible staff member. In order to meet the needs of our students and other staff, in some cases a FWA cannot be permitted. Can a flexible work arrangement be terminated? Link Yes. An approved flexible work arrangement will undergo periodic review and assessment. If at any time the FWA is not meeting the needs and expectations of the employee, supervisor, or University, the FWA will be discussed and in some cases terminated. Can an employee work through lunch to make up time in a FWA? Link No. New York State labor laws require that a break be given after six hours of work. I am not sure if a FWA or a Family Medical Leave would be more appropriate for me. How can I determine which I need? Link For more information on Family and Medical Leave provisions, contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042. I am interested in exploring a flexible work arrangement. How do I start the process? Link One you have reviewed the Flexible Work Policy and related information, contact your Senior HR Business Partner who will facilitate any discussions with your supervisor and provide you with the form to request a flex arrangement. Who should I contact with a question about Disability or Workers’ Compensation benefits as it relates to flexible work arrangements? Link The Office of Risk Management administers Workers’ Compensation benefits and New York State Disability benefits for non-exempt employees. Disability benefits for exempt employees are handled by HR Shared Services. More from this Section Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Care@Work by Care.com Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness WorkLife Learning Opportunities © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy