Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Information for… Managers and Supervisors Recruiting Resources Recruiting Resources A Talent Acquisition Manager will work with you to source a pool of qualified applicants and narrow the field to a group of finalists. As you evaluate these candidates, try to assess their previous experience, technical skills, creativity, and alignment with – and ability to support – the University’s mission. Syracuse University demands the best from our employees, and our competitive application process is designed to get the right person in the right job. On this page: Link Diversity Recruiting Support Interviewing Guides Diversity Recruiting Support Link At Syracuse University, we are committed to maintaining an inclusive learning and working environment that reflects a diverse, multi-cultural and international worldview, and values the similarities and differences among individuals and groups. We strive to prepare students to understand, live among, appreciate, and work in an inherently diverse country and world made up of people with different ethnic and racial backgrounds, military backgrounds, religious beliefs, socio-economic status, cultural traditions, abilities, sexual orientations and gender identities. To do so, we commit ourselves to developing a community that celebrates and models the principles of diversity and inclusivity. When searching for candidates to fill a vacancy in your department, there are specific associations, publications, and online media that can be used to target a diverse applicant pool. For assistance developing a diversity recruitment strategy, contact your assigned Talent Acquisition Manager. Interviewing Guides Link For some managers, interviewing candidates can be as stressful as being interviewed. Being prepared for the interview will reduce anxiety and provide a more meaningful exchange with the candidate. You probably know that there are some types of questions that you should never ask during an interview, but if you aren’t sure or have concerns, discuss them with your Talent Acquisition Manager. Your TAM can also help you draft appropriate questions related to the role and the qualifications that you need to identify during the interview process. Some general interview guidelines are: Avoid “yes” or “no” questions. Asking open-ended questions will usually provide better insight into the candidate’s history and abilities than a simple “yes” or “no.” Open-ended questions encourage candidates to express ideas and information they feel are important. For example: “Tell me about your supervisory experience.” “Can you give me some examples of the ways you achieved cost reductions and/or improved service?” Follow-up questions can help you explore a specific topic the candidate mentions. For example: “You mentioned that you experienced a department reorganization at your last job. What were some of the challenges that you faced as a result, and how did you handle them?” “Tell me more about being the team leader for the Alpha project at MTM Industries. Did you enjoy being in that role?” Ask the candidate to put themselves in a specific job-related situation they might need to deal with in this role. For example: “What would you do if a vendor was not meeting contractual obligations?” “How would you respond if someone on your staff had an attendance problem?” Remember to ask candidates why they want to work for Syracuse University and what attracted them to the opening on your team. Why do they think they would be a good fit for the role? Never ask questions related to an applicant’s: Race National Origin Age Birthplace Religion Creed Sexual orientation Disability Marital or parental status Child care Health status Once you have decided on your selected candidate, notify your Talent Acquisition Manager, who will handle the offer and acceptance process to ensure compliance with University standards. More from this Section Compensation Overview for Managers Hiring and Onboarding Systems and Employee Transactions Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy