Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Benefits Retirement Planning In this Section Retirement Planning Through our partnership with our retirement plan administrator, TIAA, the University provides a generous retirement benefit. Upon reaching your one-year anniversary, you will begin receiving a University contribution of 10 percent of your base salary toward your retirement, subject to the annual maximum as determined by the Noncontributory Retirement Plan. If you are coming from another four-year institution, you may be eligible to waive your one-year waiting period. The waiver form and directions are available below. You also contribute directly to your future financial security when you contribute to the Voluntary Retirement Plan. On this page: Link Managing Your Account One-on-One Assistance Online Tools Helpful Links Managing Your Account Link Once you begin receiving the University’s contribution, the funds will automatically be invested in a T. Rowe Price Target Date Fund in your account at TIAA for the year closest to the year you reach age 65. However, you may redirect the contributions to other investment options within the plan at any time. The target date funds provide a one-step investing option for those who do not wish to actively manage their retirement account. Each fund combines a mix of stocks, bonds and other investments in proportions that adjust over time based on your age and expected retirement date. If you prefer to select your own investments from the options available [PDF], you can build a diversified mix that’s right for you. When you contribute to your own retirement through the Voluntary Retirement Plan, you can designate your contributions as either pre-tax Traditional 403(b), or after-tax Roth 403(b) [PDF] up to the maximum amount permitted by law, which is adjusted each year. For calendar year 2022, the maximum contribution is capped at $20,500. If you are over age 50, or turn 50 during calendar year 2022, you are permitted to make additional catch-up contributions of up to $6,500, for a total of $27,000. Employees who have completed at least 15 years of service with the University may be able to contribute additional catch-up amounts. If you made contributions to a previous employer’s plan during the calendar year, you must include those contributions to ensure that you do not exceed the annual maximum. If you contribute on a pre-tax basis, you will pay taxes on the amount you contribute, as well as any earnings, when you take a distribution from your account. If you make your contributions to a Roth account, you pay taxes now on the amount you contribute, and both the contributions and earnings are generally tax-free when withdrawn as a qualified distribution. As with the noncontributory account, you may direct your voluntary contributions into a T. Rowe Price Target Date Fund, or you may select your own investments based on your financial goals. You may begin or adjust your contributions at any time using the Voluntary Salary Reduction forms available below. Once enrolled, your contributions can also be adjusted online at any time through MySlice. Once you are enrolled in either the Noncontributory or Voluntary Retirement Plans, register for online access on TIAA’s website to view your retirement account, manage your investments and update your beneficiaries. One-on-One Assistance Link TIAA offers personalized advice and education to help you reach your retirement goals. To schedule a meeting with one of the University’s dedicated TIAA financial consultants, or for assistance with your account, contact TIAA at 855.842.CUSE (TTY: 800.842.2755), or sign up online. We encourage you to watch this short video to help you prepare for your meeting. As part of your benefits program, this service is available at no additional cost to you. Online Tools Link On TIAA.org/tools you will find a wealth of online financial planning tools, including the Retirement Goal Evaluator, Asset Allocation Evaluator, and the Voluntary TDA Advantage Calculator, among others. You can also register to attend live webinars on a variety of topics to help you plan for a successful retirement (replays are available on-demand within 30 days of the scheduled event). Should you have any questions, please reach out to our HR Shared Services team at 315.443.4042. Helpful Links Link TIAA Enrollment Forms – create an account at TIAA, choose your investments and designate your beneficiaries. Syracuse University Noncontributory Retirement Plan Enrollment Form (RA) [PDF] Syracuse University Voluntary Retirement Plan Enrollment Form (GSRA) [PDF] Syracuse University 457(b) Deferred Compensation Enrollment Form [PDF] Noncontributory Retirement Plan Waiver Letter and Form [PDF] – For waiving the University’s 1-year waiting period Salary Reduction Forms – specify the amount you want withheld from your pay to contribute to a Voluntary account Syracuse University Voluntary Retirement Plan 403(b) Salary Reduction Form [PDF] Syracuse University 457(b) Deferred Compensation Salary Reduction Form [PDF] TIAA website Every effort has been made to ensure that the information contained within this website is accurate. However, the benefits are governed by legal documents (which, in certain circumstances, may include insurance contracts). If there is any difference between the information in this website and the official documents, the official documents will control. As is the case with all of Syracuse University’s employee benefit plans, the University reserves the right to modify or terminate these benefits at any time. In this Section Syracuse University Retirement Plan Investment Options Financial Wellness Events © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy