Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Information for… International Employees H-1B Temporary Workers H-1B Temporary Workers Individuals who are employed in a “specialty occupation” at Syracuse University may be eligible for H-1B status for a maximum period of six years, usually in two increments of three years. H-1B sponsorship at Syracuse University is for individuals with full-time employment. Academic departments will work with the Office of University Counsel (OUC) to sponsor hired foreign nationals for H-1B status. H-1B Application Process Link Eligibility Link Syracuse University will sponsor qualified individuals for H-1B status for full-time positions that require a minimum of a bachelor’s degree. However, some individuals may not be eligible for H-1B sponsorship due to prior immigration status or prior stays in the United States. Prevailing Wage Link H-1B sponsorship requires Syracuse University to pay at least the “prevailing wage” set by the U.S. Department of Labor for the particular job offered the foreign national employee. Processing Times – Plan up to Six Months in Advance Link Plan ahead. USCIS can take up to six (6) months to adjudicate an H-1B petition. Therefore, we recommend an early start to the process: the earlier the process starts, the greater the chance of timely arrival for your position. Fees Link The hiring academic department is required to pay the $460 H-1B application fee and the $500 anti-fraud fee for initial H-1B petitions. An H-1B may be expedited if necessary. The fee for “premium processing” is $1,410 and provides for adjudication within 15 business days. Depending on the circumstance, the fee may be paid by the hiring department or by the employee. Maintaining H-1B Status Link Maintaining Passport Link International employees should have a valid passport. If your passport will expire during your employment at Syracuse University, you can renew it in your home country or through your country’s embassy or consulate in the United States. H-1B Limitations of Stay Link Generally speaking, H-1B status is available for a maximum of 6 years. However, time abroad may be recaptured and added to the maximum length of stay. In addition, some H-1B holders with pending permanent residency may be eligible for an extension of stay beyond the 6-year limit. Please contact the OUC for questions about your status or length of stay. Employment Restrictions Link H-1B status is employer-specific. Therefore, Syracuse University-sponsored individuals may only work for Syracuse University. If you wish to work for another employer, that employer would need to file a concurrent H-1B. H-1B holders are not eligible to receive honoraria or payment for lectures or similar services provided to other U.S. institutions or businesses. However, reimbursement of expenses is allowed. Changes in Terms of Employment, Extensions, Leaving SU Link Please contact the UC if your position at the University changes or you intend to leave the employ of Syracuse University. Some changes in employment require filing an amended H-1B petition, while others do not. If you plan to leave Syracuse University, timing is critical in order for you to maintain your H-1B status while moving to another employer. Portability – It is possible to take your H-1B status with you if you leave the employ of Syracuse University to join another employer. Please contact the OUC if you plan to leave Syracuse University. Extensions – Extensions of stay are fairly routine. The H-1B extension petition must be filed prior to your H-1B status end date to avoid interruption in employment. If you have travel plans abroad, please consult with the OUC about the timing of your extension petition. H-4 Dependents Link Dependents of Syracuse University employees may be eligible for H4 status either by a petition filed with the Immigration Service or if the dependents are abroad a visa application, and interview with the appropriate U.S. consulate. More from this Section O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy