Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Information for… Managers and Supervisors Compensation Overview for Managers Job Classification Model Job Classification Model The following are general descriptions of staff members’ roles at Syracuse University, designed to serve as a guideline for making relative comparisons among staff job responsibilities. These descriptions are not intended to capture individual job duties, but rather, to illustrate broad differences in the nature of work, scope and responsibility levels. A job might not incorporate every bulleted statement within a particular category. Also, different elements of an individual job might be found in more than one category. In either case, the job should be assigned to the category that it best fits. These role descriptions cover staff positions in office and non-office environments performing all types of functions, including academic, administrative and service areas that serve the overall educational mission of the University. Note that interaction with others encompasses dealings with the diverse constituencies of the University including students, faculty, staff, alumni, donors, parents and/or the general public. Each category builds upon the previous category. Staff II Staff III Staff IV Staff V Staff VI Staff VII Staff II Link Staff members in this category: exercise some independent judgment in following instructions, established policies, and procedures to perform a variety of routine and some non-routine tasks in office or non-office settings. take actions that may affect their own unit and/or succeeding operations. interact with others primarily to interpret and exchange non-controversial information/data. demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills and use basic desktop computer technology (e.g., word processing software, spreadsheets), telephone systems and/or laboratory techniques (e.g., equipment setup, solution preparation, or other activities). may be responsible for maintaining a variety of records and/or monitoring some expenses. require specific direction; however, they occasionally work autonomously with a supervisor available to answer questions or handle unusual situations. Positions in this category generally require a high school degree plus additional specialized training, coursework or skill acquisition related to the position plus up to three years of relevant experience. Staff III Link Staff members in this category: exercise some independent judgment and discretion within established policies and procedures to analyze facts or circumstances surrounding problems or transactions and take appropriate action. make recommendations/decisions that affect those individuals directly involved. interact with others to integrate, interpret and exchange information/data where some difference of opinion may exist. have well developed oral and written communication skills. are proficient in the use of techniques, tools and software (e.g., research and compose correspondence, create graphics files, run laboratory experiments, fabricate equipment or other activities) that are appropriate to their area(s) of specialization. In-depth knowledge of a particular topic may be required (e.g., employee benefit options, academic program requirements, student housing policies or other topics). organize their own work and manage their own time; work is checked largely for progress toward completion of assignments. Some staff members in this category: are responsible for modifying a variety of records. monitor expenses and/or recommend expenditures. provide work direction for others. Positions in this category generally require a two-year degree, business school or trade school degree or certification in a specialized field plus up to three years of relevant experience. Staff IV Link Staff members in this category: exercise some independent judgment and discretion within established policies and procedures to analyze facts or circumstances surrounding problems or transactions and take appropriate action. may make recommendations/decisions that affect activities, programs, groups and/or departmental operations. generally interact with others to analyze information/data, provide advice, opinions, and counsel utilizing problem solving skills (e.g., instructional activities, financial aid, admissions, career development counseling or other activities). use well-developed analytical, technical, computer and/or oral and written communication skills. may have input into the budget planning process and/or responsibility for controlling and recommending budget expenditures within their own area. receive general direction, participate in setting work objectives; guidance limited to results expected. Individual contributors in this category (employees in jobs that have no supervisory responsibilities): use fundamental concepts, practices and procedures of their specialty field to provide administrative support OR use fundamental technical capabilities and skills to perform tasks in an assigned area. Supervisors in this category: oversee routine operations for a unit, program(s), or project(s). provide input on employment and termination decisions (hiring, promotions, salary increases, termination, performance reviews). Positions in this category generally require a two or a four-year degree or an equivalent combination of education and experience plus up to three years of relevant experience. Some positions may require thorough knowledge of a technical or specialized field (e.g., accounting, computer science, higher education administration, nursing or other fields). Staff V Link Staff members in this category: interpret, plan and execute their work within general guidelines to achieve departmental objectives. make decisions that affect schools/colleges or major departments. are a resource to help resolve complex issues and generally work with other areas/departments/work units to achieve objectives. use well-developed analytical, cognitive, technical and/or computer skills. may use persuasion and negotiation skills. may have input into the budget planning process and may be responsible for controlling and recommending budget expenditures within their own area. independently perform assignments; work is evaluated on results achieved. Individual contributors in this category: apply or impart their own experience and the advanced concepts, practices and procedures of their specialty field to achieve objectives. Supervisors in this category: manage routine operations for a unit, department or program(s). are responsible for making employment and termination decisions or recommendations (e.g., hiring, promotions, salary increases, termination, performance reviews). Positions in this category generally require a four-year degree, possibly an advanced degree, or an equivalent combination of education and experience plus three to five years of relevant experience. Staff VI Link Staff members in this category: are generally expected to interpret and apply University policies, manage resources and initiate actions to achieve broadly defined objectives. provide input into strategic decisions that affect planning, policies, practices and operations for a department, function and/or school/college. in addition to using highly developed analytical, technical, computer, oral and written communication skills use high-level persuasion and negotiation skills. provide input into the budget planning process and are responsible for controlling and recommending budget expenditures within their own area. have full responsibility for interpreting, organizing, and executing assignments. receive limited direction typically related to complex projects/situations. Individual contributors in this category: apply expert knowledge of concepts, practices and procedures of specialty field(s) to achieve objectives. Supervisors in this category: manage a department, unit or major project(s). are responsible for employment and termination decisions (hiring, promotions, salary increases, termination, performance reviews). Positions in this category generally require a four-year degree, possibly an advanced degree, or an equivalent combination of education and experience plus five to eight years of relevant experience. Staff VII Link Staff members in this category: lead a major department or multiple departments; develop strategies, design policies and deploy resources to achieve objectives. make decisions that affect more than one school/college or department and sometimes the entire University. apply highly developed creative and problem solving skills and use high-level persuasion and negotiation skills. are accountable for budget planning and controlling expenditures. have substantial latitude for independent action. Positions in this category generally require a four-year degree, possibly an advanced degree, or an equivalent combination of education and experience plus eight or more years of relevant experience. More from this Section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act Overview Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy