Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Information for… Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Eligible Retirees continue to receive access to valuable tuition benefits for themselves and their families. On this page: Link Remitted Tuition Benefits Dependent Tuition Benefits Helpful Links Remitted Tuition Benefits Link Remitted Tuition provides credit hours for eligible retirees and their spouses/same-sex domestic partners for undergraduate and graduate study. Employees who retire from the University at age 55 and have at least five consecutive years of service as a Benefits Eligible Employee, upon retirement may continue to be eligible for the same number of Remitted Tuition credit hours, valued at a full tuition waiver, as when actively employed. Remitted Tuition credits may be transferred to an eligible spouse or same-sex domestic partner. Spouses or same-sex domestic partners who receive benefits transferred from a retiree will receive a tuition waiver of 85 percent. Strict guidelines regarding tuition credit use, availability and expiration are outlined in the Remitted Tuition Policy on the Syracuse University Policies website. The University’s policy regarding refunds on courses that are dropped while using Remitted Tuition can be found in the Syracuse University Bulletin Tuition, Fees, and Related Policies. Tax Implications Link For information on remitted tuition taxability rules, including how the University’s Educational Assistance Plan affects such taxation, please refer to the Comptroller’s Office for a description of those rules. Dependent Tuition Benefits Link The Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Benefit Policy provides educational benefits to Eligible Dependents of Eligible Retirees who retire with at least seven years of continuous full-time equivalent employment with the University. The following is a brief description of each Dependent Tuition Benefit Program available. Applicants are strongly encouraged to review the Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Policy for complete details. SU Tuition Waiver Program – An Eligible Dependent who is matriculated and enrolled as a full-time undergraduate student at Syracuse University may apply to receive a tuition waiver. The waiver can be applied only to the minimum number of credit hours required for completion of the first baccalaureate degree. The value of the tuition waiver will be provided in accordance with the schedule identified in the Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Policy. Tuition Exchange Program – Eligible Dependents who are matriculated into another participating member institution of Tuition Exchange, Inc. may apply to receive a Tuition Exchange Scholarship for full-time undergraduate study leading to their first baccalaureate degree. The program is limited to a maximum of eight semesters. Tuition Exchange scholarships are not guaranteed at any of the participating member institutions. Tuition Exchange Scholarships are awarded by the institutions according to their own criteria. The value and duration of each scholarship may be restricted. Summer Session courses are not available under the Tuition Exchange Program. Students denied a Tuition Exchange scholarship may apply to participate in the Cash Grant Program. Cash Grant Program – Eligible Dependents who are full-time undergraduate students and are matriculated into an Eligible Accredited Post-Secondary Institution of Learning may apply to have up to $1,250 per semester applied toward tuition charges. An Eligible Post-Secondary Institution of Learning is an institution that offers courses of study leading to an associate’s or baccalaureate degree and is accredited in the United States by an agency recognized by the University. Awards are made payable directly to the institution. The program is limited to a maximum of eight semesters. Summer Session courses are not available under the Cash Grant Program. Dependent Tuition Benefit Application Process Link Those interested in applying for a Dependent Tuition Program must complete and submit a Dependent Tuition Benefit Application and a Tuition Exchange Request Form (if applying for the Tuition Exchange Program) to the Office of Human Resources according to the application deadlines below. First Application Link Eligible Retirees must complete a Dependent Tuition Benefit Application [PDF] for each Eligible Dependent and submit it to the Office of Human Resources. The deadlines for the first application are as follows: SU Tuition Waiver Program – The Dependent Tuition Benefit Application should be submitted to the Office of Human Resources no later than November 15 for early decision applicants and February 1 for regular admission applicants. Applicants for the SU Tuition Waiver Program are required to apply in a timely fashion for a New York State TAP award each year benefits are being used. This requires filing, within federal deadlines, a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), to automatically generate a pre-printed New York State TAP application. An exemption from the New York State TAP award is available if certain requirements are satisfied. Consult the Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Policy for complete details. Tuition Exchange Program – The Dependent Tuition Benefit Application and the Tuition Exchange Request [PDF] form should be submitted to the Office of Human Resources as soon as possible in the fall of the student’s senior year in high school, but no later than November 15. In most cases, this is before submitting admissions applications to participating Tuition Exchange schools. Cash Grant Program – The Dependent Tuition Benefit Application should be submitted to the Office of Human Resources after the student has been officially accepted for admission, but no later than May 1 for a fall semester grant. Renewal Applications Link The same forms are used for renewals as for new applications. Retirees are responsible for submitting renewal applications by the deadlines noted below: Tuition Exchange – February 1 SU Tuition Waiver – March 1 Cash Grant – May 1 Questions? Contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042. Helpful Links Link Dependent Tuition Benefit Application Form [PDF] Tuition Exchange Request Form [PDF] Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Benefit Policy Remitted Tuition Benefit Policy Tuition Exchange, Inc. University College Guide to Remitted Tuition Remitted Tuition Credit Transfer Authorization Form [PDF] The benefits listed above apply as indicated to retired and emeritus faculty and retired staff members of Syracuse University. All benefits programs are subject to change. If any discrepancies exist between program-related communications and the Plan Document, the terms and conditions detailed in the Plan Document will control. More from this Section Retiree Benefits Summary Health Benefits for Retirees Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports (Retiree Plans) © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy