Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Staff Home Information for… Staff Information for Staff Link Our staff supports the academic mission of Syracuse University from all corners of campus and around the globe. Your work ensures our students have an unrivaled collegiate experience and keeps many facets of the University operating smoothly, behind the scenes and at the highest levels of leadership. We are committed to creating a fulfilling and supportive environment and healthy work-life balance over the span of your career. Employees represented by a bargaining unit may wish to review additional information for bargaining unit members. Frequently Asked Questions Link I am enrolled in benefits through the University. How do I obtain new copies of my member ID cards? How do I update my name, address, or other information? I will be turning 65 next month. Does that change my benefits? I only work through the academic year. Do my benefits continue through the summer? How do I add my new spouse/child to my benefits? How do I apply for a leave of absence? I am a staff member thinking about retiring. What do I need to do? I am enrolled in benefits through the University. How do I obtain new copies of my member ID cards? Link You can request new ID cards by contacting the administrator. Note that the VSP vision plan does not produce member ID cards to mail to you, but you can print a facsimile of an ID card by logging into their site. Have a smartphone? Download the mobile apps for Excellus BCBS, OptumRx, Delta Dental and VSP to make sure you have access to your electronic member ID card at all times. The apps also allow you to see plan benefits, find participating providers, order prescription refills, and much more. Download the free apps from iTunes or Google Play. How do I update my name, address, or other information? Link By logging into MySlice, you can update most of your personal information, including your address, phone number, email, emergency contact and military status. You can also add a Preferred Name, which will display in many University software systems, including as your email display name. To change your name in University records, you must provide a copy of your new Social Security card issued in your new name and complete a Name Change form [PDF]. To change your gender, contact HR Shared Services. I will be turning 65 next month. Does that change my benefits? Link Review the information about reaching age 65 under balancing your life events. I only work through the academic year. Do my benefits continue through the summer? Link Yes, generally, appointments for academic year employees are structured to continue through mid-August, so medical, dental, vision, life and disability coverage will continue through the summer. Your paycheck deductions during the academic year are accelerated to cover your costs during the summer when you do not receive a paycheck. If you are separating from employment, all benefits end on your last day worked. Consult your supervisor or contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042 if you have questions about your status or benefit coverage during the summer. How do I add my new spouse/child to my benefits? Link You have 31 days from the date of the event (marriage, birth, adoption, etc.) to make changes to your benefits. Contact HR Shared Services to add your new eligible family members to your existing coverage. If you do not contact us within 31 days, you must wait for the next annual enrollment (generally held in early November) to make changes to your benefits. Read more about life events such as getting married and becoming a parent, and contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042 with any questions. How do I apply for a leave of absence? Link If you need time off for your own health condition or that of a family member, review the Family and Medical Leave policy and the applicable short term disability or salary continuation benefits that may be available. You can also review other types of paid and unpaid leave for military, volunteer emergency service, and personal reasons. Contact the HR Leave Administrator at 315.443.4042 with any questions or to initiate a leave request. I am a staff member thinking about retiring. What do I need to do? Link Thank you for your service to the University. Please review the information on the life events page, and contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042 with any questions. More from this Section Bargaining Unit Members New Employees Faculty Managers and Supervisors International Employees Retirees Graduate Assistants People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy