Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Benefits Life and Disability Life Insurance Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D) coverage through MetLife provides benefits to your family if you die, or to you if you are dismembered or paralyzed, as the result of an accident. On this page: Link Syracuse University-Sponsored Basic AD&D Insurance Supplemental AD&D Insurance Travel Assistance Services Benefit Schedule Your Cost Filing a Claim Helpful Links Syracuse University-Sponsored Basic AD&D Insurance Link All benefits-eligible employees receive Syracuse University-sponsored basic AD&D insurance coverage in the amount of $3,000. There is no cost to you for this coverage. Supplemental AD&D Link You can purchase additional AD&D coverage in increments of one to 10 times your annual salary, not to exceed $2,000,000. Your supplemental AD&D coverage cannot exceed your combined basic and supplemental life coverage. When you purchase supplemental AD&D coverage, you receive enhanced benefits at no additional cost, including: Seat Belt Benefit: Pays an additional 10% benefit if you were wearing a seat belt and die in an accident while driving or riding as a passenger in a car. Air Bag Benefit: Pays an additional 5% benefit if you were wearing a seat belt and were driving or riding in a car in a seat protected by an air bag, and die as a result of injuries sustained in an accident. Child Care Benefit: Pays up to $5,000 per year for four consecutive years toward child care costs incurred after your death. Child Education Benefit: Pays up to $10,000 per year for four consecutive years toward tuition charges for full-time students in college or vocational school after your death. Spouse Education Benefit: Pays up to $5,000 for a spouse’s tuition as a full-time student after your death. Hospital Confinement Benefit: Pays 1% of your coverage amount on a monthly basis for up to 12 months of hospital confinement resulting from an accidental injury. Common Carrier Benefit: Pays up to the full amount of coverage if you die in an accident as a fare-paying passenger on a government regulated transportation carrier (does not include chartered or private transportation, taxis or limousines). Travel Assistance Services Link If you are faced with an emergency while traveling more than 100 miles from home, this service provides you and your dependents with medical, travel, legal and financial assistance services [PDF]. These services are included at no additional cost when you enroll in Supplemental AD&D coverage. Review the Certificate of Coverage available from HR Shared Services for full details on these benefits. Limits and exclusions apply. Schedule of Covered Losses for AD&D Insurance Link Covered losses are payable as a percentage of the amount of coverage in place. Covered Loss Benefit Percentage Loss of life 100% Loss of hand above the wrist or foot below the knee 50% Loss of arm above the elbow or leg above the knee 75% Loss of sight in one eye 50% Loss of thumb and index finger of same hand 25% Loss of speech or hearing 50% Paralysis of both arms and both legs 100% Paralysis of both legs, or the arm and leg on either side of the body 50% Paralysis of one arm or leg 25% Brain damage causing complete inability to perform normal life activities 100% Review the Certificate of Coverage for complete details on the covered losses and benefit payments. Your Cost Link Supplemental AD&D coverage costs $.017 per $1,000 of coverage. Premiums are paid through pre-tax payroll deduction and are automatically calculated and adjusted as necessary during the calendar year to reflect changes in your actual salary. Filing a Claim Link Contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042 if you need to claim a dismemberment or paralysis benefit. In the event of your death, the benefit will be automatically reviewed and included in payment to your beneficiary(ies) if your death was the result of an accident. Helpful Links Link MetLife Travel Assistance Services [PDF] Every effort has been made to ensure that the information contained within this website is accurate. However, benefits are governed by legal documents (which, in certain circumstances, may include insurance contracts). If there is any difference between the information in this website and the official documents, the official documents will control. As is the case with all of Syracuse University’s employee benefit plans, the University reserves the right to modify or terminate these benefits at any time. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy