Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Information for… Managers and Supervisors Compensation Overview for Managers In this Section Compensation Overview for Managers The Wage and Salary, Overtime and Fair Labor Standards Policy is a comprehensive resource for information on pay for faculty, salaried staff, hourly staff and bargaining unit positions. Compensation Philosophy Link Syracuse University’s compensation philosophy is to: Recruit, retain, and reward a talented and effective staff; Recognize staff’s value and contributions to the University; Reward staff for performance; Ensure fair and consistent administration in all units across the University. The compensation framework allows flexibility to make appropriate decisions based on specific circumstances. Managers/supervisors, staff, and HR all have roles to play in managing pay effectively and consistently, in compliance with all applicable regulations. Human Resources, managers/supervisors, and staff all have a role to play in maintaining the compensation program and ensuring that all the pieces of the program are managed appropriately. Roles and Responsibilities Link Human Resources Link The Office of Human Resources serves as a resource to SU’s managers/supervisors. Specifically, HR has several important roles and responsibilities: Communicate programs and guidelines to help managers/supervisors to understand all aspects of the compensation program. Provide (internal and external) information, data, and advice on pay levels, policies, and practices. Provide expert guidance, perspective, and support to enable managers/supervisors to make appropriate pay decisions. Review compensation decisions to identify and address any significant variations in practices both within and among units. Keep senior administration aware of compensation practices across SU. Managers/Supervisors Link Managers/supervisors play a critical role in managing the compensation programs as they provide the job description that is the main component used to evaluate the position and thus compare for internal and external salary comparators. Managers/supervisors are responsible for ensuring that staff understands the compensation program, as well as for providing open, honest, and timely feedback to staff on compensation issues, answering both specific and general questions about pay. Managers/supervisors are responsible and accountable for the following: Establishing and maintaining equitable pay practices within their areas of responsibility. Recommending annual increases. Distributing performance-based pay increases, consistent with SU’s compensation philosophy, market factors, budget constraints, and approval processes. Ensuring staff understand the compensation program and any future changes. Providing open, honest, and timely feedback to staff on compensation issues, answering both specific and general questions about pay. Working with staff to keep Position Evaluation Requests (job descriptions) current. Using Sr. HR Business Partners as a resource to ensure appropriateness of decisions and consistency with pay guidelines. Staff members Link While staff members are not responsible for making pay decisions or actively managing the compensation program, they do have other important responsibilities: Understanding the compensation program by using the tools and resources SU makes available (e.g. written materials, town meetings, HR web site). Discussing questions or concerns with their manager/supervisor and/or HR. Working with their manager/supervisor to keep their position evaluation requests (job descriptions) updated. Actively seek information and ask questions so as to understand decisions about their pay. Helpful Links Link Fair Labor Standards Act Job Classification Model at SU Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Managers and supervisors can review training materials for system transactions, information about student employment, and more under Information for . . . Managers and Supervisors. If you have any questions about compensation for your staff, contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042, or send an email to the HR Compensation Team. In this Section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act Overview Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy