Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Benefits Health Benefits Health Plan In this Section Health Plan As a benefits-eligible employee, Syracuse University offers you the option of three health plans: SUBlue, SUOrange and SUPro. All three health plan options include medical benefits administered by Excellus BlueCross BlueShield (Excellus BCBS) and prescription drug benefits administered by OptumRx. In general, the same services are covered under all three plans, but with a different deductible and copay/coinsurance structure. On this page: Link Coverage Preventive Care Provider Network Your Cost Helpful Links Coverage Link Excellus BCBS uses their internal Medical Policies (reference the Let Us Help section at the bottom of the webpage and click on Medical Policies) to help determine how certain services are covered under the plan. The Excellus BCBS Medical Policies are a guide to be used by participating health care practitioners and are not intended to certify coverage or reimbursement. Medical services are constantly changing and Excellus reserves the right to periodically review and update the Medical Policies. Pre-certification for certain services may be required; refer to the plan documents or contact Excellus BCBS for more information. A summary of the University’s three medical plan options is provided in our At a Glance: A Comparison of Health Care Plans [PDF] and you can compare the plans using the Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) documents. For complete coverage details, consult the University’s Medical Benefits Summary Plan Description (SPD) and the Medical Benefits Booklet, available on MySlice under Employee Resources. If you would like to receive a copy of the SPD or the Medical Benefits Booklet, please contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042. The following table highlights some key differences among the plans: SUBlue SUOrange SUPro Network coverage Provides in-network and out-of-network coverage Provides in-network coverage only Provides in-network and out-of-network coverage Referrals Not required Not required Not required Your cost when you use an in-network provider Generally deductible and copays Generally deductible and copays Generally deductible and coinsurance Schedule of benefits document SUBlue [PDF] SUOrange [PDF] SUPro [PDF] Coverage Highlights Link If you’re enrolled in health coverage through the University, you and your eligible dependents have access to the following: Telehealth Coverage: In response to the global health emergency, telehealth coverage was introduced to ensure members had access to care. These services include both provider-facilitated telehealth coverage as well as telehealth through MDLIVE, at the equivalent cost-sharing associated with in-person visits. MDLIVE is a national telehealth provider that provides patients with 24/7 access to a network of board-certified doctors and licensed therapists that can treat more than 50 non-emergency conditions via a computer, mobile device or simply by calling 866.692.5045 (TTY: 800.770.5531). In addition to the services provided through MDLIVE, if your health care provider, including a behavioral health provider, offers virtual and telephonic options for care, eligible services will be covered under the health plan. 24/7 Nurse Call Line: Contact a nurse by phone anytime—24 hours a day, seven days a week—by calling 800.493.0318 (TTY: 800.662.1220). Specially trained registered nurses from Excellus BCBS can provide support and education for members with chronic or complex health conditions, or provide answers to more general health questions. Excellus BCBS Dedicated Customer Care Team: If you have medical benefit questions and would like personalized assistance, you may contact the Excellus Dedicated Customer Care Team at 800.493.0318 (TTY: 800.662.1220) Monday through Thursday from 8 a.m.-8 p.m. EST or Friday from 9 a.m.-8 p.m. EST. Preventive Care Link Many common preventive care services are covered at no cost to you. For a list of covered services, please review the following website. These standards will apply to in-network services only, unless specified otherwise in the Schedule of Benefits. Frequency and age limitations may apply. Provider Network Link You will maximize the value of your benefit when your physician or facility participates with the Excellus BCBS network. You should confirm that your medical providers are in the network before each visit, because the network is subject to change. If your provider does not participate and you would like Excellus BCBS to attempt to recruit them, please contact Excellus BCBS at 800.493.0318 (TTY: 800.662.1220). Your Cost Link The University pays a significant portion of the cost of your medical coverage and you pay the remaining cost of the premium through payroll deduction. The Schedule A contributions for medical coverage automatically apply, unless you qualify, apply and are approved for reduced Schedule B contributions. Certain employees represented by the SEIU collective bargaining agreement are automatically enrolled in the Schedule B medical contributions. The monthly costs listed below are based on the 12-month calendar year. Actual deductions from each paycheck will vary depending upon your deduction cycle (e.g., weekly vs. semi-monthly, academic year vs. calendar year). Link 2022 Monthly Health Plan Contributions Link Schedule A SUBlue SUOrange SUPro Employee Only $147.88 $143.58 $134.87 Employee + Spouse/Domestic Partner $360.79 $350.43 $331.09 Employee + Child(ren) $314.38 $305.34 $288.32 Employee + Spouse/Domestic Partner + Child(ren) $520.51 $505.60 $478.23 Schedule B SUBlue SUOrange SUPro Employee Only $129.54 $125.77 $118.14 Employee + Spouse/Domestic Partner $284.99 $276.70 $259.91 Employee + Child(ren) $250.02 $242.74 $228.01 Employee + Spouse/Domestic Partner + Child(ren) $405.47 $393.67 $369.78 Should you have any questions, please reach out to our HR Shared Services team at 315.443.4042. Helpful Links Link Benefits Eligibility Policy -includes information about coverage for dependents up to age 26 and domestic partner coverage. Reference our Coverage Examples Guide [PDF] to see, in general, how the deductible and copay/coinsurance are applied to certain services for SUBlue, SUOrange, and SUPro. Reduced Medical Contributions (Schedule B) -includes eligibility and application information. Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) 2022 SUBlue and SUOrange Schedule of Benefits [PDF] 2022 SUPro Schedule of Benefits [PDF] 2022 At a Glance: A Comparison of Health Care Plans [PDF] International Medical Coverage: Frequently Asked Questions [PDF] Vaccinations Available through the Pharmacy [PDF] Preventive Care MDLIVE: Telehealth Benefit Link Excellus BCBS Link Excellus BCBS Participating Provider Directory Instructions Excellus BCBS website Medical Claim Forms Link Marketplace Coverage Notice Link Department of Labor Marketplace Coverage Notice [PDF] Every effort has been made to ensure that the information contained within this website is accurate. However, benefits are governed by legal documents (which, in certain circumstances, may include insurance contracts). If there is any difference between the information in this website and the official documents, the official documents will control. As is the case with all of Syracuse University’s employee benefit plans, the University reserves the right to modify or terminate these benefits at any time. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy