Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Information for… Retirees Health Benefits for Retirees Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006 Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Opt Out/Opt In Provision Link Opt Out/Opt In is a provision of the Syracuse University Retiree Medical Benefits Plan (Plan) for individuals who are eligible for subsidized retiree health care coverage. The Opt Out/Opt In provision allows eligible individuals the ability to waive out of the Plan with the option to opt back into the Plan at a later date, under certain circumstances. This feature offers individuals the flexibility to consider other options that may better suit their needs. The requirements for opting back in depend on Medicare eligibility: Not Eligible for Medicare – If the retiree or dependent is not eligible for Medicare on the date selected for opting back into coverage, he or she can opt back into coverage only if he or she can provide written proof of continuous medical coverage for the entire period that he or she was not covered by the Plan as a result of the opt out election. Proof must be provided in such form and manner as specified by the Office of Human Resources. There is no limit on the number of times a retiree or dependent can opt into the Plan under this eligibility requirement. Eligible for Medicare – If the retiree or dependent is eligible for Medicare on the date selected for opting back into coverage, he or she can do so without providing proof of continuous medical coverage. A retiree or dependent can opt into the Plan only once under this eligibility requirement. A retiree or eligible dependent can opt back into the Plan only if he or she formally opted out of a plan coverage option (SUBlue, SUOrange, or SUPro), which is recorded in the records of the Office of Human Resources. Upon opting back into the Plan due to a qualifying life event or Medicare eligibility, if a family member is already enrolled, the participants opting in must enroll in that same plan coverage option. If there are no family members enrolled in a plan coverage option, the participants may choose whichever plan coverage option they wish to enroll in. During open enrollment for the Plan, the retiree and their family members may switch their plan coverage option, but they must all be enrolled in the same plan coverage option. The Opt Out/Opt In provision is not available to individuals who are no longer participating in the Retiree Medical Benefits Plan as of Jan. 1, 2008 or to individuals who are receiving non-subsidized retiree health care coverage through the University. For more information contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042 or e-mail hrservice@syr.edu. Helpful Links Opt Out Form [PDF] Opt In Form [PDF] The benefits listed above apply as indicated to retired and emeritus faculty and retired staff members of Syracuse University. All benefits programs are subject to change. If any discrepancies exist between program-related communications and the Plan Document, the terms and conditions detailed in the Plan Document will control. More from this Section Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy