Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Benefits Tuition Benefits Dependent Tuition Dependent Tuition The Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Benefit Policy provides educational benefits to Eligible Dependents of Eligible Employees. Those interested in applying for a Dependent Tuition Program must complete and submit a Dependent Tuition Benefit Application and a Tuition Exchange Request Form (if applying for the Tuition Exchange Program) to the Office of Human Resources according to the application deadlines below. On this page: Link Dependent Tuition Programs First Application Process Renewal Applications Helpful Links Dependent Tuition Programs Link The following is a brief description of each Dependent Tuition Benefit Program available. Applicants are strongly encouraged to review the Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Policy for complete details. Syracuse University Tuition Waiver Program Link An Eligible Dependent who is matriculated and enrolled as a full-time undergraduate student at Syracuse University may apply to receive a tuition waiver. The tuition waiver can only be applied to the minimum number of credit hours required for completion of the first baccalaureate degree. The value of the tuition waiver for Academic Year 2020-21 is: Qualified dependents of employees with annual salaries up to $60,046* will receive a full tuition waiver. Qualified dependents of employees with annual salaries between $60,046* and $120,095* will receive a 95 percent tuition waiver. Qualified dependents of employees with salaries of $120,095* or above will receive a 90 percent tuition waiver. *For eligible courses taken during subsequent academic years, the thresholds will continue to be increased by an amount equal to the University’s annual budgeted salary staff pro-forma. For purposes of determining the level of tuition waiver, the University salary to be used is the eligible employee’s “average base benefit rate” as defined by the University and recorded by the Office of Human Resources. The measurement of an eligible employee’s University salary is determined as of Nov. 1 prior to the academic year of receiving a tuition waiver. Tuition Exchange Program Link An eligible dependent who is matriculated as a full-time undergraduate student pursuing their first baccalaureate degree at an institution that participates with Tuition Exchange, Inc. may apply to receive a Tuition Exchange Scholarship. The program is limited to a maximum of eight semesters and excludes Summer Session courses. Scholarships are not guaranteed as they are awarded by the institutions according to their own criteria. Students denied a Tuition Exchange scholarship may apply to participate in the Cash Grant Program. The availability, value and duration of each scholarship is not guaranteed. Resources are available to assist in finding a Tuition Exchange school that’s right for you. Visit Tuition Exchange participating schools to conduct a search of participating schools with criteria including: Search schools by state Deadlines for receipt of certification of candidate application by school Percentage of award offers to new candidates meeting admission standards Award packages Cash Grant Program Link Eligible Dependents who are full-time undergraduate students and are matriculated into an Eligible Accredited Post-Secondary Institution of Learning may apply to have up to $1,250 per semester applied toward tuition charges. An Eligible Post-Secondary Institution of Learning is an institution that offers courses of study leading to an associate’s or baccalaureate degree and is accredited in the United States by an agency recognized by the University. Awards are made payable directly to the institution. The program is limited to a maximum of eight semesters. Summer Session courses are not available under the Cash Grant Program. First Application Process Link Eligible Employees must complete a Dependent Tuition Benefit Application [PDF] for each Eligible Dependent and submit it to the Office of Human Resources. The deadlines for the first application are as follows: Syracuse University Tuition Waiver Program Link The dependent tuition benefit application should be submitted to the Office of Human Resources no later than Nov. 15 for early decision applicants and Feb. 1 for regular admission applicants. Applicants for the Tuition Waiver Program are required to apply in a timely fashion for a New York State TAP award each year benefits are being used. This requires filing, within federal deadlines, a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), to automatically generate a pre-printed New York State TAP application. An exemption from the New York State TAP award is available if certain requirements are satisfied. Consult the Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Policy for complete details. Tuition Exchange Program Link The Dependent Tuition Benefit Application [PDF] and the Tuition Exchange Request [PDF] form should be submitted to the Office of Human Resources as soon as possible in the fall of the student’s senior year in high school, but no later than Nov. 15 — which, in most cases, will be before the student submits the application for admission to the participating Tuition Exchange school(s). Cash Grant Program Link The Dependent Tuition Benefit Application [PDF] should be submitted to the Office of Human Resources after the student has been officially accepted for admission, but no later than May 1 for a fall semester grant. Renewal Applications Link The same forms are used for renewals as for new applications. Employees are responsible for submitting renewal applications by the deadlines noted below: Tuition Exchange – Feb. 1 Syracuse University Tuition Waiver – Mar. 1 Cash Grant – May 1 Questions? Contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042 or email hrservice@syr.edu. Helpful Links Link Dependent Tuition Benefit Application Form [PDF] Tuition Exchange Request Form [PDF] Syracuse University Dependent Tuition Benefit Policy Tuition Exchange, Inc. Tuition Exchange FAQ [PDF] Every effort has been made to ensure that the information contained within this website is accurate. However, benefits are governed by legal documents (which, in certain circumstances, may include insurance contracts). If there is any difference between the information in this website and the official documents, the official documents will control. As is the case with all of Syracuse University’s employee benefit plans, the University reserves the right to modify or terminate these benefits at any time. More from this Section Remitted Tuition © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy