Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home About About At Syracuse University, our Office of Human Resources is dedicated to the success of our faculty, staff and student employees. Our priorities are clearly defined and focused on helping employees achieve their career goals and worklife balance. Working at Syracuse means that you have comprehensive and generous benefits, great colleagues from all 50 states and around the world, and are a part of a great University community with more than 21,000 students. From training and professional development, to wellness and financial planning, our team is ready to provide the support and professional expertise for employees in the modern workplace. HR Leadership Link Andrew Gordon – Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Karen Morrissey – Associate Vice President for Human Resources Three Main Service Areas Link Human Resources is organized into three main areas: Centers of Expertise, a revitalized HR Shared Services and experienced HR professionals as Senior Human Resource Business Partners. As a result of the new organizational structure, HR will focus on accomplishing the following strategic goals: Building stronger partnerships with schools, colleges and administrative units; Improving and streamlining HR transactions, thereby reducing the amount of school and college staff time devoted to HR matters; and Identifying professional development opportunities for University employees. Centers of Expertise Link The Centers of Expertise will include five centers, each with a clearly defined focus, as well as a dedicated and expanded set of services and skill sets. The centers and the directors leading each team include: Benefits: Sarah Azria, Director of Benefits Strategy: Provide strategic advice on the development and maintenance of a competitive benefits program, and manage relationships with all benefits vendors. Compensation: Pamela Socker, Director of Compensation Strategy: Provide strategic advice to University leaders to ensure equitable and competitive pay throughout the University as well as consistent titling and classifications. Talent Management: Davine Bey, Director of Talent Management: Provide full range of global talent recruiting and hiring needs for all University staff and support staff development and performance evaluation programs. HR Information Technology: Manage and maximize HR technology, and lead and support process improvements. Wellness and WorkLife: Gail Grozalis, Executive Director of Wellness + Worklife: Manage a range of University wellness and worklife initiatives and supervise and align the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program with University global workforce needs. HR Shared Services Link Shared Services is a model that organizes operational and transactional Human Resources functions to deliver consistent, reliable and customer-centric HR services. The HR Shared Services Center utilizes a balance of people, efficient processes and technologies that allow the schools, colleges and administrative units to focus on their goals rather than transactional HR functions. Jim Mennig, Director of Shared Services Senior Human Resource Business Partners & Labor Relations Link Our Senior Human Resource Business Partners serve as experts who provide frontline strategic advice on a variety of HR matters to a dedicated set of schools, colleges or administrative units. The Senior HR Business Partners partner with leaders in schools, colleges and administrative units identifying staff development opportunities, offering strategic advice and assisting with HR matters in their areas. One of the benefits of having a dedicated HR partner includes providing faculty and staff more time to focus on the needs of students and less time devoted to HR matters. Amanda Barbuto—Newhouse School of Public Communications, Office of the General Counsel, Whitman School of Management and Enrollment and the Student Experience. Lindsay Blair—David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics, College of Engineering and Computer Science, School of Architecture, School of Information Studies, and the School of Education. Karin Botto—TBD. Alyssa Campbell—(interim) Business, Finance and Administrative Services and College of Law. David Chaplin—College of Visual & Performing Arts, Arts & Sciences and Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. Salina Hoque—Academic Affairs, Graduate School, Hendricks Chapel, Information Technology Services, Library, Communications and Marketing and SUAbroad. Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, Andrew Gordon, supports the Board of Trustees, Chancellor’s Department, Office of Human Resources, Advancement and External Affairs, and Athletics. Our Labor Relations team promotes positive labor-management relations using an interest-based approach to achieve positive outcomes and support of the University’s overall mission and strategic plan. Denise Dyce – Director of Labor Relations © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy