Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Information for… International Employees Permanent Residency Permanent Residency Permanent Residency, also known as the Green Card, is an immigrant visa status. There are many different paths to obtaining Permanent Residency (PR), but Syracuse University can petition for only specific employment-based categories. In addition, the ability to obtain PR may be impacted by current or former immigration status. Syracuse University sponsors individuals for Permanent Residency in the following categories: EB-1B Outstanding Professor/Researcher: The EB-1B category is reserved for established and outstanding faculty and researchers. This category requires filing only with the Immigration Service. EB-2 Advanced Degree Professional: Syracuse University uses the EB-2 advanced degree professional category for tenure track faculty and some staff positions that require an advanced degree. The category first requires a filing with the Department of Labor. Filing with the Immigration Service for PR is dependent upon Department of Labor approval. EB-3 Professional or Skilled Worker: Syracuse University uses the EB-3 category for some staff positions that require a bachelor’s degree. Like EB-2, this category first requires a filing with and approval by the Department of Labor. IMPORTANT NOTE: Syracuse University employment-based permanent residency must be filed through the Office of University Counsel. Departments and/or employees may not engage outside counsel to file for employment-sponsored PR. Employees who may not be eligible for University sponsorship can self-petition for PR through two other categories that do not require employer sponsorship: alien of extraordinary ability (EB-1A) or a national interest waiver (EB-2). Syracuse University does not provide legal advice to employees on these petitions, and interested individuals should consult with a competent immigration attorney. Faculty or Departments asked to provide information or letters for an individual pursuing self-sponsored PR should contact the Office of University Counsel to discuss appropriate support. Timing of Filing – Plan More than One Year in Advance Link Syracuse University must file the first step of EB-2 permanent residency for tenure-track teaching faculty within 18 months of hire. The timing for sponsorship of tenure-track faculty in the EB1-B, outstanding professor/researcher category, is more flexible, but the individual must possess the credentials to support the category. Filing before the last year of H-1B eligibility is recommended. Non teaching positions and those positions eligible for EB-3 filing should be initiated before the fourth year of H-1B eligibility. Contact the Office of University Counsel to discuss specific timing. Filing Fees Link I-140 Fee – Permanent Residency sponsorship fee is $700, paid by the sponsoring department. I-907 Premium Processing Fee – Premium Processing provides for adjudication within 15 calendar days of receipt and requires a fee of $1,410 . I-485 Adjustment of Status Fee & Civil Surgeon Exams – The I-485 petition to adjust status and the related civil surgeon exam fees are the responsibility of the employee. The filing fee for the I-485 is $1,225 per adult and $835 for each dependent child under 14 years of age who files concurrently with the parent. Civil Surgeon Exam fees vary depending on the Civil Surgeon who performs the exams. More from this Section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability TN Workers © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy