Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home HR News HR News COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow May 27, 2022 Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our campus given summer break, supports an adjustment to our campus COVID Level and associated masking guidance. COVID-19 Update: Public Health Protocols for Summer 2022 May 17, 2022 Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: With the 2021-22 academic year officially behind us, I want to again express my gratitude for the cooperation and flexibility of our students, faculty and staff, who committed to the public health safeguards necessary to maintain a robust residential academic experience over the past year. It has taken a dedicated community effort to get us to this point, and I’m extremely proud of all we’ve accomplished together. 2022 Summer Office Hours May 12, 2022 Summer office hours for Syracuse University will begin on Monday, May 16, and will be in effect through Friday, Aug. 26. Summer office hours are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Academic-year hours will resume on Monday, Aug. 29. If you have any questions, please contact Shared Services at 315.443.4042. Calling Faculty and Staff Participants for the Syracuse Workforce Run/Walk/Roll and Optional Couch-to-5K Group Training May 9, 2022 The Syracuse Workforce Run (formerly the J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge) will be held on Tuesday, June 21, at 6:45 p.m. at Onondaga Lake Park. The 5K (3.1 miles) race is an annual tradition bringing together employees from organizations across the greater Syracuse area for a night of camaraderie, networking, food and beverages, and friendly competition. Proceeds from this year’s race will benefit the Rescue Mission Alliance of Syracuse, a non-profit fighting local hunger and homelessness. Faculty and Staff Can Sharpen Their Communication Skills With the Crucial Conversations Workshop Series April 25, 2022 Another installment of the popular Crucial Conversations program will be offered to faculty and staff following Commencement weekend. The seven-week, in-person series, which is particularly well-suited for managers and supervisors, will begin on May 17 and wrap up on June 28. Sessions will be held each Tuesday from 9 to 11 a.m. at a North Campus location yet to be determined. COVID-19 Public Health Update: Effective Tuesday, April 19, Masking at Level Blue April 18, 2022 Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Families: With less than four weeks to go in the spring semester, our campus is beginning to experience an uptick in COVID cases, a trend that is consistent with what is occurring across the country and here in Onondaga County. As we approach the end of year activities, including final projects and exams, and Commencement exercises, it is important that we take reasonable action to minimize the impact of COVID infections on academic outcomes and experiences. That’s why, effective Tuesday, April 19, our campus will transition to COVID level “Blue.” COVID-19 Update: Reviewing CDC Mask Guidance April 1, 2022 Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Families: As you may be aware, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is now recommending indoor masking in Onondaga County. This recommendation is based on three data points, including active COVID cases, hospitalizations and hospital capacity. The CDC’s action does not represent a federal masking order but is instead a recommendation to our community. The University has no new information to indicate that the Onondaga County Health Department or the New York State Department of Health intend to issue a local masking order in response to the CDC’s most recent guidance. COVID-19 Update: Return from Spring Break Reminders March 18, 2022 Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Families: As spring break comes to an end, I hope you are feeling recharged and ready to tackle the final weeks of the Spring 2022 semester. Whether you traveled away from campus or spent your time in Syracuse catching up on rest and other activities, in preparation for the return to campus life, I want to share some important public health reminders. COVID-19 Update: Effective Monday, March 14, Masking at Level Yellow March 14, 2022 Last week, the University announced that pending current public health conditions, it would move to masking level “Yellow.” After assessing the current landscape, both here on campus and throughout Central New York, effective tomorrow, Monday, March 14, the University is officially at masking level “Yellow.” COVID-19 Update: Continued Assessment of Masking Guidance March 8, 2022 In recent weeks, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), New York State Governor Kathy Hochul, the Onondaga County executive, and many of our national and New York state peer institutions have announced significant changes to public health guidelines. Primarily, these changes relate to reduced indoor masking requirements, including the elimination of mask mandates for children attending K-12 public schools across New York state. Previous © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy