Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Learning and Development In this Section Learning and Development Working at Syracuse University gives you the opportunity to contribute to our mission, but it also gives you the opportunity to grow personally, develop your professional skills and knowledge, and advance on a career path that you design. Take advantage of the different resources available to you, both formal and informal: identify a more experienced person to be your mentor, attend a webinar, volunteer for a committee, or take a class. Engaging with others on campus can open doors to different types of opportunities you never imagined. Professional and Personal | Supervisor/Manager Compliance-Related | Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility Additional Learning Resources Professional and Personal Link A Look Behind the Scenes of Campus Recycling Link Join the SU Sustainability Management group to learn what happens to your recyclables on and off-campus. This session will reinforce SU’s goals for increasing recyclables on campus and reduce contamination before it is sent to the recycling center. These figures also determine the ranking of the University in The Campus Race to Zero Waste, the annual recycling and waste reduction competition where colleges and universities compete from across North America. Led by the University’s Sustainability Coordinator, Melissa Cadwell. Next date: TBD Building Resilience Link Learn about what resilience means and how to build your resiliency within the workplace. Learn strategies that will help you tap into your values and your support system, and identify ways that will help you move forward. Led by Pam Gavenda, Associate Director, Organizational Development and Training, this program will be held online via a video teleconference. A link will be sent to those who register a few days before the session. Wednesday, June 1 9—10:30 a.m. Register for Building Resilience Internal Applications - Projecting Your Best Self Through Your Resume Link As a current staff member at Syracuse University, how are you marketing yourself for an internal position? Whether the position opportunity is within your current department, College, School, or Administrative Unit, or whether it is for a potential change in roles within Syracuse University, it is important to consider some best practices. While not a guarantee for “landing the new internal job”, this workshop will highlight best practices related to putting your best-self forward for consideration as an internal applicant through your Resume. Participants will learn: How to identify and best leverage their current knowledge, skills and abilities Resume considerations that showcase the strengths and achievements individuals can bring to the position How additional communication tools, such as a cover letter and a thank you note, add value to highlight qualifications Led by representatives from Syracuse University’s Career Services department in coordination with the Office of Human Resources, this workshop will be held virtually. A Zoom link will be provided a few days prior to the session. Tuesday, May 12 10—11 a.m. Register for Internal Applications-Projecting Your Best Self Through Your Resume Introduction to Emotional Intelligence Link What is emotional intelligence and are there ways to develop emotional intelligence? This session will introduce the components of emotional intelligence, including related competencies and strategies for developing emotional intelligence. Gain an understanding of self-management and self-awareness. Learn critical skills for your personal and professional goals. Led by Pam Gavenda, this program will be held online via a video teleconference. Information and a link will be sent a few days prior to the session. Register for Monday, May 23 (1—3 p.m.) Register for Tuesday, July 12 (9:30—11:30 a.m.) Register for Friday, Sept. 9 (10 a.m.—noon) Manage Conflict Within-Personal Development Link How can a positive environment be created by framing our own actions? Learn about how to utilize an understanding of positive Life Forces and negative Life Forces and 10 natural Universal Laws. Realize what you want and how to create it. This workshop will help you to reframe and refocus your environment into what you would like it to be. Led by University Ombuds Neal Powless, this session will take place via an online video conference. Register for Monday, June 13 (10—11:30 a.m.) Register for Wednesday, Sept. 14 (9—10:30 a.m.) Performance Partnership for Staff Link For those new to the Syracuse University Performance Partnership process, this staff session is designed to ensure the process, including both form completion and the subsequent meeting between supervisor and staff member, is productive and effective. The workshop will provide an overview of the staff member’s role in the Performance Partnership process highlighting the tool and resources available, including creating SMART goals that will help advance the initiatives of the department and University. Led by Pam Gavenda, Associate Director, Organizational Development and Training, sessions will be offered as follows: Register for Wednesday, April 6 (9—10:30 a.m.) Register for Wednesday, May 18 (2—3:30 p.m.) Register for Monday, June 13 (1—2:30 p.m.) Register for Tuesday, July 19 (1—2:30 p.m.) Register for Friday, Aug. 5 (10—11:30 a.m.) Register for Tuesday, Sept. 6 (1—2:30 p.m.) Reflection, Renewal, and Our New Normal Link By reflecting on our experiences of loss and life over the past year, together we will discover a shared sense of renewal, both personally and professionally. Since the onset of COVID-19 all have been impacted, both individually and collectively, and this session will encourage participants to embrace a “new normal” that can spark and sustain fulfillment. This session will explore and guide participants toward: acknowledgment of grief and sorrow as a consequence of loss affirmation of new possibilities in response to times of adversity resistance of temptation to “return to normal” embrace opportunities of our “new normal” Led by Brian Konkol, Dean of Hendricks Chapel, this session will be offered via a video teleconference. A link will be sent to those who register a few days before the session. Wednesday, June 1 Noon-1 p.m. Register for Reflection, Renewal, and Our New Normal Remitted Tuition Benefit Information Session Link This information session is designed to provide an overview of the Remitted Tuition Benefit Program at Syracuse University. Please visit the Human Resources Remitted Tuition Benefit webpage and the Remitted Tuition Benefit Policy for details regarding eligibility. Experts from Human Resources, University College, the Bursar’s office, Payroll, and Financial Aid will be on hand to answer any questions you may have. Whether you are new to the University or have been here for a while, it’s never too late to take advantage of this wonderful benefit. All benefit-eligible employees and retirees are encouraged to attend. Next offering: Fall 2022 StrengthsFinder Team Workshop Link In the StrengthsFinder Team Workshop, we use the Gallup StrengthsFinder 2.0 book and the results from each team member’s StrengthsFinder assessment to discuss how each person can use their top five strengths to enhance their individual and team effectiveness. This workshop will help you and your team identify your strengths and create a culture where strengths thrive. Decades of Gallup research uncovered 34 strengths that exist at some level within everyone. However, each person has "signature strengths," which dominate their actions and behaviors. People who focus on their strengths are more engaged, more productive, and happier. Gallup developed its online StrengthsFinder assessment to help millions of people discover their top five talents. Below is a list of the steps that need to be taken prior to the delivery of the StrengthsFinder Team Workshop. We recommend at least a 1 to 2 month lead-time for scheduling the workshop date, due to the following steps that need to be completed prior to delivery of the workshop. StrengthFinder Team Workshop Preparation Steps If you would like to begin a discussion with us about the possibility of scheduling a StrengthsFinder Team Workshop, please contact Pam Gavenda, Associate Director, Organizational Development & Training, 315.443.7612 or by email pegavend@syr.edu. We look forward to working with you and your team on discovering your individual and combined team strengths. Trademark Licensing at Syracuse University Link Do you use the Syracuse University “Block S” or seal within your communication and/or marketing materials? Are you familiar with the Syracuse University guidelines related to trademarks and licensing? Do you know what is included within Syracuse University trademarks? Led by Rachel Duffy, Director of Trademark/Licensing at Syracuse University, you will learn: What is a Syracuse University trademark; How to order officially-licensed Syracuse-branded promotional products; and Why we use officially-licensed vendors while committing to the Building Local initiative This session will be held online via a video teleconference. A link will be sent to those who register a few days before the session. Wednesday, May 25 2—3 p.m. Register for Trademark Licensing Writing Skills Link Are you looking for ways to improve your written communication within the workplace? Led by Ben Erwin, director of the writing center, this workshop will offer information, insights and resources to further develop your skills. Topics include: Effective written communication Revision and editing Document design Next date: TBD Supervisor/Manager Link Crucial Conversations Link Crucial conversations take place in every organization every day. These are conversations where there are high stakes, differences of opinion, and strong emotion. These are conversations around work quality, time management, productivity, performance, customer satisfaction, sensitive issues, conflict, or a strained relationship, for example. Often, individuals avoid having these conversations or they do not handle them well. Either way, this leads to not getting the results you want. Whenever you’re not getting the results you’re looking for, it’s likely a crucial conversation is keeping you stuck… Crucial Conversations® is a course that teaches skills for creating alignment and agreement by fostering open dialogue around high-stakes, emotional, or risky topics – at all levels of an organization. By learning how to speak and be heard (and encouraging others to do the same), you will begin to surface the best ideas, make the highest-quality decisions, and then act on the decisions with unity and commitment in a respectful way. Participants will learn to: Spot when conversations become crucial Hold the right conversations Avoid repeatedly having the same conversation Understand their own style under stress Recognize and diffuse violence and silence Clearly identify and express what they really mean Separate facts from stories and emotions Make it safe for others to speak up Make clear decisions and commitments Program Cost: $350 per participant This covers the cost of course materials including: Crucial Conversations Participant Toolkit Cue cards for each lesson in a desktop display case Crucial Conversations model card A copy of the New York Times bestselling book, Crucial Conversations: Tools for Talking When Stakes are High Crucial Conversations Audio Companion, MP3 download Post-training participant website: videos, exercises, assessments, additional reading, and more Maximum number of participants: 24 Led by Crucial Conversations® Certified Trainer Pam Gavenda, this program is offered in two-hour segments over eight consecutive weeks. Skills learned each week build upon skills from the previous week, so it is critical that you are able to attend all sessions. Next Program Dates: This in-person (Syracuse University north campus) skill-development program will be held on Tuesday mornings from 9 - 11 a.m. beginning May 17 and continuing through and including June 28. Skills learned each week build upon skills from the previous week, so it is critical that participants are able to attend and be present for all 7 sessions. Register for Crucial Conversations Or, sign up to be added to a Wait List and you will be notified when the next sessions are scheduled. Introduction to Emotional Intelligence for Supervisors Link This session will introduce the components of Emotional Intelligence, explore the personal and professional benefits of Emotional Intelligence, provide clarity for understanding the connection between Emotional Intelligence and effective supervision, identify the advantages that Emotional Intelligence can provide in the workplace, and provide strategies for supervisors to increase their own Emotional Intelligence. Led by Pam Gavenda, this program will be held online via a video teleconference. Information and a link will be sent a few days prior to the session. Register for Tuesday, April 5 (1-3 p.m.) Register for Wednesday, June 8 (10 a.m.-noon) Register for Monday, Aug. 1 (1-3 p.m.) Maximum number of participants per session: 30 Introduction to Project Management Link Led by Patrick Penfield, Director of Executive Education and Professor of Practice in the Whitman School of Management. This session will cover: Introduction/Overview of Project Management Project Teams Budgets and Schedules Reporting and Project Closeout Program Cost: $50 per participant. Please note, if you register for this workshop you (your department) will be responsible for the payment. Please obtain approval from your supervisor and/or budget manager prior to registering. Maximum number of participants: 20 Next date: TBD Managing Your Remote Team Link How do we best manage a remote and dispersed workforce? With the current pandemic, many departments are continuing to support team members with flexible work arrangements, and more staff are working at home or in different locations. While this may seem daunting for some, this is also an opportunity to further develop your leadership skills while affording your direct reports with an opportunity to balance real work-life challenges. During this program, we will discuss considerations, reminders, and best practices for maintaining engagement, delivering results, and building relationships with your remote team. Monday, Feb. 21 3-4:30 p.m. Maximum number of participants: 30 Register for Managing Your Remote Team Performance Partnership for Supervisors Link The Supervisor session is designed to ensure the Performance Partnership process, including both form completion and the subsequent meeting between supervisor and staff member is productive and effective. The workshop will review providing accurate and honest feedback, navigating difficult conversations with employees, communicating performance expectations and creating goals with staff that will help advance the initiatives of the University. Led by Pam Gavenda, Associate Director, Organizational Development and Training, sessions will be offered as follows: Register for Wednesday, May 25 (10 a.m.-noon) Register for Wednesday, April 13 (9-11 a.m.) Register for Friday, June 10 (9:30-11:30 a.m.) Register for Wednesday, July 13 (1-3 p.m.) Register for Wednesday, Aug. 3 (10 a.m.-noon) Register for Tuesday, Sept. 13 (1-3 p.m.) Compliance-Related Link Clery Disclosure Act Link This workshop will provide an overview of the Jeanne Clery Disclosure Act, which requires colleges and universities to report crime and safety information for their campus communities. It is targeted to Campus Security Authorities, individuals or organizations on campus, or people working and living on campus who have significant responsibility for student and campus activities. Led by Nicole Cooter, Regulatory Compliance Manger, employees will learn what the law requires and how information should be reported. Sessions will be via video conference. A link will be sent a few days before the session. Register for Monday, May 23 (9:30-10:30 a.m.) Register for Wednesday, June 29 (2-3 p.m.) Register for Tuesday, July 19 (9:30-10:30 a.m.) Register for Wednesday, Aug. 10 (1-2 p.m.) The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA): What You Need To Know Link The federal law governing student privacy, dictates when and how we may (or must!) share student information. This session, brought to you by the Offices of Risk Management and University Counsel will explain the basic rights and restrictions of the law, and answer the following questions: When may you share records about a student, and with whom may you share them? What do you need to know for online classes? When and how may a student access their own records? What happens if you get it wrong, and how can you fix it if you do? This program will be held online via teleconferencing. A link will be sent to those who register a few days before the session. Next offering: Fall 2022 Protecting Minors on Campus Link This workshop is designed to strengthen the safety of minors invited to campus. During this 60 minute presentation, Sarah Ross Cappella, Youth Program Compliance Coordinator, Risk Management, will be covering the following points: Registering Programs – who needs to and how is it done Background Checks – who, what and how Training – university policy, the law and how to report suspected incidents Mandatory Reporting Guidelines Sessions offered: Register for Thursday, May 12 (10-11 a.m.) Register for Wednesday, July 13 (9-10 a.m.) Register for Wednesday, Aug. 10 (10-11 a.m.) Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility Link Building Awareness and Confidence in Using Pronouns & Preferred Names Link This workshop will provide an overview and primer on the role of pronouns and preferred names as part of LGBTQ inclusion and cultural sensitivity. Learn more about why they are important, in a safe workshop space with open dialogue. Workshop topics include: The history of Preferred Names and Pronouns The function and role of gender in our lives including terminology and general concepts Practice using gender pronouns in common situations Pronouns and Preferred Names at Syracuse University This program will be held on-line via teleconferencing. A link will be sent to those who register a few days before the session. Register for Monday, March 28 (9-11 a.m.) Register for Thursday, May 5 (9-11 a.m.) IT Accessibility Policy Overview and Resources Link This information session will provide an overview of the Syracuse University Information & Communication Technology (ICT) Accessibility Policy, which requires that our websites, applications, and content (documents, presentations, videos, etc.) meet specific criteria to make them usable by the widest possible variety of users, including those who might have certain physical, visual, auditory, or learning disabilities. Led by IT Accessibility Analyst, Pam Thomas, this session will cover: Background on the ICT Accessibility Policy What does accessibility mean when it comes to IT? What standards are in place to ensure that our applications and content are accessible? Types of disabilities Types of assistive technology in use on campus What training resources are available to the campus community? Next offering: TBD Reasonable Accommodations for Qualified Employees with Disabilities Link This interactive session provides staff and faculty will a clear understanding of what a reasonable accommodation is and is not, why we provide them, and the process for acquiring reasonable accommodations. Breakout sessions reinforce these understandings, and the session concludes with Q&A and a key takeaways. Wednesday, April 20 1:30—2:30 p.m. Register for Reasonable Accommodations Rethinking the Disability Paradigm: The University Community Working Together Link What do you need to know about disabled students and co-workers? This workshop will answer this question and many more that you didn’t know to ask! What does able-bodied privilege mean? How does it manifest in the workplace? Our socially mediated and culturally affirmed beliefs influence how we think and engage with each other. These largely unconscious beliefs can lead to biases and micro-aggressions that impact others in ways that we may not be aware of or intend. We want you to gain an awareness of your own beliefs and how they influence your actions and the language you use. This is a collective responsibility we all share. Led by campus partners within the Center for Disability Resources and the Office of Diversity & Inclusion, this workshop will be held via a video teleconference. Information and a link will be sent a few days prior to the session. Next offering: Fall 2022 Workshops offered by the Office of Diversity and Inclusion Link A critical component of creating an inclusive environment is awareness of the issues that enhance, or impede, inclusivity. Take a look at the educational training and programming offered by the Office of Diversity and Inclusion (scroll down to faculty or staff workshop sections). © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy