Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search Home Benefits Life and Disability Disability Benefits Long Term Disability (LTD) Long Term Disability (LTD) Syracuse University offers a voluntary Long Term Disability (LTD) Plan insured through The Standard. Should you have questions, contact HR Shared Services at 315.443.4042. On this page: Link LTD Benefit Important Considerations for Exempt (Salaried) Employees Important Considerations for Non-Exempt (Hourly) Employees Your Cost Helpful Links LTD Benefit Link The sudden loss of income if you become ill or injured and can’t work can be devastating to your finances. The Standard will pay 60 percent of your insured pre-disability earnings (reduced by deductible income from other sources such as Social Security or Workers’ Compensation) while on an approved disability following a six month waiting period if your claim is approved. The minimum monthly benefit is $100 and the maximum monthly benefit is $12,000. Because premiums are paid with after-tax dollars, if you receive benefits, they are generally nontaxable. The LTD Plan complements the University’s Salary Continuation Plan (for eligible faculty and exempt employees, including some non-exempt employees eligible under transition rules) and Disability Plan (for eligible non-exempt employees), both of which cover the first six months of disability before the LTD Plan begins payment. This benefit is reduced by Social Security and certain other sources of income. The extra protection available through the voluntary LTD Plan offered by The Standard can help you replace lost income in a time of need. If you elect this coverage after 45 days of employment, you must complete a Medical History Statement [PDF] and be approved by The Standard before coverage will be added. Link Important Considerations for Exempt Employees Link Syracuse University currently provides long term disability benefits to exempt employees through its Salary Continuation Plan. For Salary Continuation Plan benefits to be paid beyond 12 months, you must, among other things, receive a Social Security Disability Award (SSDA) by the end of your first year of disability. It is important to note that it can be difficult to obtain an SSDA within the 12 month period. If you do not receive an SSDA and you are not able to return to work after one year of disability, you are no longer covered under any salary replacement plan from Syracuse University. If you do receive an SSDA before the end of your first year of disability, Syracuse University’s Salary Continuation Plan will pay 50 percent of your base annual salary minus your SSDA and certain other reductions. Generally, earnings from the Salary Continuation plan are completely taxable. As an eligible exempt employee, if you are enrolled for coverage under the voluntary LTD Plan: You will begin receiving 60 percent of your pre-disability earnings after the six month waiting period (reduced by any deductible income and subject to Plan limitations). These earnings are generally nontaxable. The definition of disability does not rely on qualifying for a SSDA. Benefits under Syracuse University’s Salary Continuation Plan are reduced by benefits paid under the voluntary LTD Plan. Important Considerations for Non-Exempt (Hourly) Employees Link Non-exempt employees are covered by New York State Statutory Benefits (if eligible, supplemented by Syracuse University) for short term periods of disability up to 26 weeks. If you are disabled and unable to work for longer than six months, any compensation will cease. If you are enrolled in the voluntary LTD Plan, you will begin receiving 60 percent of your pre-disability earnings after the six month waiting period (reduced by any deductible income and subject to plan limitations) if your claim for benefits is approved. Your benefit is generally nontaxable. Your Cost Link Monthly premiums for the voluntary LTD coverage are determined by multiplying monthly gross pay by the rates below and dividing by 100. Age Monthly Cost/$100 of Covered Pay Under age 30 $0.196 30 through 34 $0.235 35 through 39 $0.294 40 through 44 $0.431 45 through 49 $0.647 50 through 54 $0.941 55 through 59 $1.215 60 through 64 $1.264 65 through 69 $1.343 70 through 74 $1.735 Age 75+ $2.646 Rates listed here are based on the 12-month calendar year. Actual deductions from each paycheck will vary depending upon your deduction cycle. For example, an employee age 43 with an annual gross pay of $40,000 would have a monthly premium of $14.37 ($40,000 / 12 * .431 / 100). Should you have any questions, please reach out to our HR Shared Services team at 315.443.4042. Helpful Links Link Medical History Statement for The Standard [PDF] Non-Exempt Disability Benefits Salary Continuation Plan Every effort has been made to ensure that the information contained within this website is accurate. However, the benefits are governed by legal documents (which, in certain circumstances, may include insurance contracts). If there is any difference between the information in this website and the official documents, the official documents will control. As is the case with all of Syracuse University’s employee benefit plans, the University reserves the right to modify or terminate these benefits at any time. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy