Skip to Content Human Resources Open Close primary navigation Search Search HomeExpand Collapse section About HR News HR Office Hours Contact HR CareersExpand Collapse section Search Open Jobs About SyracuseExpand Collapse section Relocation Resources BenefitsExpand Collapse section Benefit Administrators: Contact Information Eligibility and EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Balancing Your Life Events Mid-Year Benefit Changes Health BenefitsExpand Collapse section Health PlanExpand Collapse section Reduced Medical Rates: Schedule B Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) Prescription Drug Coverage Dental and VisionExpand Collapse section SEBF Dental and Vision COBRA Rates Flexible Spending AccountsExpand Collapse section Dependent Care FSA Dependent Care Subsidy Program Health Care FSA Retirement Planning Tuition BenefitsExpand Collapse section Dependent Tuition Remitted Tuition Life and DisabilityExpand Collapse section Life InsuranceExpand Collapse section Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Statement of Health Life Insurance for Dependents Disability BenefitsExpand Collapse section Long Term Disability (LTD) Paid Time Off and Leave Policies Additional BenefitsExpand Collapse section Adoption Assistance Auto and Home Insurance Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Discounts Identity Protection Services COVID-19 Benefit Notifications WorkLife Benefits and ResourcesExpand Collapse section Care@Work by Care.com Carebridge, our Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Elder Care and Caregiving Financial Wellness Spring 2022 Semester Flexible Work Arrangements WorkLife Learning Opportunities Raising a Family Wellness Initiative for Faculty and Staff Information For . . .Expand Collapse section New Employees Faculty Staff Bargaining Unit MembersExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Officers, Council 82 Service Employees’ International Union Local 200United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Workplace Partnership Council (WPC) Teamsters Local 317 Adjuncts United Contract and ContactsExpand Collapse section Benefits for Part-Time Faculty Managers and SupervisorsExpand Collapse section Recruiting Resources Hiring and OnboardingExpand Collapse section New Employee Checklist Managing and Supervising Student Employees Compensation Overview for ManagersExpand Collapse section Position Evaluation Procedures Fair Labor Standards Act OverviewExpand Collapse section FLSA FAQs Job Classification Model Pay for Staff Positions Special Pay Practices Systems and Employee TransactionsExpand Collapse section Online RAP Training Faculty Job Code Guide Job Codes for Temporary Employees Paid Family Leave Information for Managers/Supervisors Performance Partnership Carebridge Resources for Supervisors Separation or Retirement Student Employees Graduate Assistants International EmployeesExpand Collapse section H-1B Temporary Workers O-1 Person of Extraordinary Ability Permanent Residency TN Workers RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for RetireesExpand Collapse section Health Benefits for Retirement Prior to Jan. 1, 2006 Health Benefits for Retirement On or After Jan. 1, 2006Expand Collapse section Retiree Medical Benefits Plan Medigap & Medicare Advantage Plans Retiree Prescription Drug Benefit – Medicare Part D Retirement Disability Coverage Financial Education and Planning for Retirees Life Insurance for Retirees Tuition Benefits for Retirees Additional Benefits for Retirees Contact List for Retiree Benefits Summary Annual Reports People with Disabilities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA+) Communities Veterans and Military Families Professional DevelopmentExpand Collapse section Learning and Development Performance Partnership Our WorkplaceExpand Collapse section Policies Staff Complaint Resolution Respectful Workplace Title IX Procedures for Staff Discrimination/Harassment (non-sexual) Reporting Procedures for Staff Forms Contact HR Search Search About Syracuse Home Careers About Syracuse In this Section Above, left to right: Hall of Languages; students picking apples; the Orange play in the Carrier Dome; ice skating in Clinton Square, downtown Syracuse. Syracuse—A great place to work, live, and be Orange! Located in the “heart of New York,” Syracuse’s rich history ties it to the Erie Canal, the Underground Railroad, and the Women’s Rights Movement, as well as the Onondaga and Oneida Nations. Residents and visitors alike find beauty and recreation in every season. Take a leisurely stroll to admire the fiery colors of fall at a harvest festival, and scamper the snowy hills on skis or skates in winter. Every spring and summer weekend boasts outdoor events, from arts and crafts to farmers’ markets and the Great New York State Fair, and plenty of water sports at local parks and beaches. Within just five hours of nearly every major eastern metro area, Syracuse is easily accessible from New York, Boston, Toronto, Washington D.C. and Philadelphia. Here are just a few of the reasons Syracuse is an easy and livable place to call home: Syracuse is No. 18 in U.S. News and World Report’s Best Places to live in the U.S. for quality of life, based on its convenience, affordability, and abundant family-friendly activities year-round. Syracuse consistently ranks in the nation’s top five most affordable major housing markets, according to the National Association of Home Builders. 24 school districts in Central New York have been named 2018 Best Communities for Music Education in the annual survey of districts nationwide from National Association of Music Merchants (NAMM) Foundation, a nonprofit organization that advocates active participation in music making Syracuse was named America’s best college town, according to Travel + Leisure magazine. Syracuse University is the No. 1 college in America for school spirit, according to the most recent rankings from the Princeton Review. To learn more about Syracuse, www.visitsyracuse.org and read area news at www.syracuse.com, www.cnycentral.com, or www.localsyr.com. Culture, shopping, and dining on the Connective Corridor The corridor links campus to the museums, theaters, shops and restaurants of Armory Square, a 19th-Century warehouse district transformed into a stylish dining, retail, and entertainment hub. It’s home to the central business district for Central New York. Students, residents, and visitors traveling across the region frequent Armory Square to enjoy a dynamic, relaxed urban experience. Syracuse is also where you will find Destiny USA, with over 250 shopping, dining and entertainment options. Fashionable, convenient housing options: Living Downtown Downtown Syracuse offers various options, including condominiums, townhouses, and lofts in lively areas as historic Franklin Square, Plum Court, Center Armory, and Mission Landing. A place to call your own Relocating to Central New York means you can select from a variety of affordable housing in the city, its suburbs, or a more rural setting and still be just minutes from campus. You can preview homes for sale and rent, see the schedule of open houses and find a local realtor on cnyrealtor.com or zillow.com. Living in the University area and surrounding neighborhoods Syracuse University maintains a “Home for Sale by Owner” listing. These are properties in the East Neighborhood or Outer Comstock Neighborhood, owned by an SU faculty or staff member and not listed with a realtor. Contact the University’s Real Estate Services Office at 315-443-2104, or visit realestate.syr.edu for more information. Guaranteed Mortgage Program In cooperation with participating financial institutions, SU’s Guaranteed Mortgage Program assists faculty and staff purchasing single or two family homes in the University and Downtown neighborhoods. The program is administered through the Syracuse University Real Estate Office. Quality area schools Central New York prides itself on its quality K-12 education. There are a number of public and independent schools to meet your children’s educational needs within the city, through the Syracuse City School District, and in the surrounding suburbs. Various partnerships between SU and area schools provide enhanced programming and services within the Syracuse City School District. Learn more about public area schools at ongov.net/about/schools.html. Learn about private and independent schools at greatschools.org. We invite you to visit our campus and our community! To help you plan your visit, check out www.visitsyracuse.org, and review the relocation resources for more information. In this Section Relocation Resources © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy