Skip to main content Tulane Home HR Announcements Gibson Online Handbooks Visit Give to Tulane Information For... Search Information for... Equal Opportunity & Resolution Management Investigation Process Chart Visitors Parents & Families Consensual Relationships Policy Faculty & Staff Vacation Accruals & Carry Over Current Students Faculty Handbook Staff Handbook Student Policies and Procedures 2020 Open Enrollment Guide Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu search hr.tulane.edu Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Careers Search Jobs Student Employment New Employee Information Hot Jobs Benefits & Pay Kronos Workforce Ready (WFR) Medical Dental Vision Reimbursement/Spending Accounts Long Term Disability Life Insurance Retirement Student Loan Debt Relief Benefits Guide Compensation Payroll Timekeeping International Tax Learn & Grow New Ideas. New Direction. Better HR. Learning & Organizational Development Tuition Waiver Performance Awards & Recognition Work & Life Wellness Flexible Work Arrangements Time Off & Holidays Leave Management Child Care Employee Assistance Program Tulane Breastfeeding Program TUExtras Equity Education & Training Programs Conflict Resolution Program Affirmative Action Reporting & Investigating Concerns Report a Concern/Incident Laws & Policies That Guide Our Work Glossary FAQ Resources Staff Directory HR Business Partners Employment Law Posters Emergency And Limited Closure Hiring Guidelines Employee Self Service Manager Self Service Employment Verification & Records HR Technology & Systems Disability & Accommodations Religious Accommodation Separating from the University Occupational Health Report A Work Injury COVID-19 COVID-19 Employee FAQs COVID-19 Vaccination Policy COVID-19 Accessibility Requests & Accommodations COVID-19 Benefits and Wellness FAQs Temporary Emergency COVID-19 Paid Leave Program Staffing Needs, Hiring & Student Employment Working Remotely/Flexible Work Arrangement LinkedIn Learning Work Anywhere Resources COVID-19 HR Communications Careers Search Jobs Student Employment How to Find an On-Campus Job Make An I-9 Appointment Student Employees Federal Work Study Program Resources & Guidelines Student Employees FAQs International Students International Student Resources & Guidelines International Student FAQs International Student Helpful Links Student Employment Recognition New Student Employee Resources Hiring Manager Resources New Employee Information Before You Start Federal I-9 Federal I-9 Authorized Users New Hire Orientation Buddy Program Getting Started Introductory Period Hot Jobs Benefits & Pay Kronos Workforce Ready (WFR) Kronos WFR - Implementation Timeline Kronos WFR FAQs Kronos WFR Training Medical Partnership with Tulane Doctors Getting to Know the HDHP & HSA Understanding the High Deductible Health Plan FAQs on HDHP & HSA Provider Search Frequently Asked Questions Affordable Care Act (ACA) How to Decline Medical Coverage? Important Legal Notices Insurance Cards Life/Work Changes Student Employee Health Plan Traveling with Tulane Health Care Dental Vision EyeMed Now Accepted by Tulane's Optical Shop Reimbursement/Spending Accounts 2021 FSA Participants BCBS Benefits Debit Cards BCBS Benefits Card FAQs Long Term Disability Life Insurance Retirement Retirement Capabilities Access Your TIAA Account Retirement Counseling Withdrawal Process Plan Options Student Loan Debt Relief Benefits Guide Compensation Compensation Structure Definition of Terms Career Bands Job Descriptions Position Request App Pay Administration Compensation Standards and Practices Job Evaluation and Re-Evaluation New Hire Pay Compensation Conversations Lateral Moves and Transfers Interim Assignments Promotions Stipends/One-Time Payments View Your Pay Grade 2017 Compensation Study Information Session Presentation Updated Salary Structure Payroll Payroll Calendars Overpayment Overpayment: Actions Required Overpayment: Responsibilities New 2020 Federal Form W-4 W-2 How ADP Protects Your Information W-2 Box Descriptions Tax Form Definitions and Tulane Contact Information Direct Deposit Enhanced Application Security Allows Changes to Direct Deposit Payroll FAQs Timekeeping Timekeeping System (KRONOS) Clock Locations Frequently Asked Questions Kronos Employee Resources Support International Tax Annual Tax Filing Information Tax Treaty Eligibility Learn & Grow New Ideas. New Direction. Better HR. Learning & Organizational Development Learning Needs Assessment Learning Needs Assessment Results and Next Steps LinkedIn Learning Library What is LinkedIn Learning? Activate Your Account Learn How to Use LinkedIn Learning Frequently Asked Questions Work Anywhere Resources Tulane COVID-19 Communicate & Collaborate Linkedin Learning Remote Work Resources What is LinkedIn Learning? Working through Ambiguity Resources Professional Development Day 2022 Agenda & Registration 2022 How to Register Preview the Agenda Preview the Speakers Resilience Workshop Resource Fair 2022 Volunteers 2022 PDD22 FAQs Thanks to Our Sponsors! Feedback Survey & Session Recordings Professional Development Day(s) 2020 Professional Development Day(s) 2020 Agenda and Registration 2020 Preview the Agenda Preview the Speakers Growth Mindset Jam Volunteers Resource Fair FAQs Feedback Survey & Session Recordings Professional Development Day 2019 Professional Development Day: All You Need To Know The Program Agenda and Registration FAQ's Innovation Jam PDD Feedback Presentations Resource Fair Sponsorship Thank You Volunteers Tulane Leadership Institute LinkedIn Learning Performance Management Resources Tuition Waiver Tuition Waiver Schedule Tuition Waiver Steps Tuition Waiver Tax Exemption Steps Performance Resources Awards & Recognition President's Staff Excellence Award President's Departmental/Team Excellence Award Spirit of Tulane Award Tulane Staff Legacy Award Honoring Milestone Anniversaries Yvette Milner Jones Award Unified Recognition Event Awards Recipients Staff Excellence - Previous Years Departmental/Team Excellence - Previous Years Work & Life Wellness Flu-Shots Wellness Pillars Fuel Move: Activity Program Balance & Thrive Smoking Cessation & Cancer Awareness TU Living Well Clinics Annual Health Incentive TU Wellness Health Partners Wellness Wednesdays Get the Best of Stress Make Better Decisions With Critical Thinking Wellness Newsletters Flexible Work Arrangements Our Guiding Principles Flextime Compressed Workweek Hybrid Remote Work Fully Remote Work FAQs Resources Request Forms Time Off & Holidays Vacation View Vacation & Sick Balances Vacation Donations Holidays & Winter Recess Holidays & Winter Recess Pay University Holiday Schedule for 2020-2021 Sick Leave Bereavement How to Request Time Off Leave Management Parental Leave Parental Leave Frequently Asked Questions Attendance and Family Medical Leave Benefits During Medical Leave Calculating FMLA Hours FMLA Frequently Asked Questions Family Medical Leave Non-Family Medical Leave Pregnancy Leave Employee Intermittent FMLA Tracking & Reporting Responsibilities Personal Leave Worker's Compensation and Medical Leave Requesting Medical Leave Child Care Employee Assistance Program Tulane Breastfeeding Program Campus Lactation/Family Rooms Returning to Work/School Resources TUExtras Equity Education & Training Programs Conflict Resolution Program Affirmative Action Reporting & Investigating Concerns Report a Concern/Incident Laws & Policies That Guide Our Work Glossary FAQ Resources Staff Directory HR Business Partners Handbooks Staff Handbook Updates Employment Law Posters Emergency And Limited Closure Hiring Guidelines Faculty Student Hiring Managers Resources & Guidelines Hiring Student Employees Hiring Managers FAQs Hiring Managers How-To Videos Student Employee Recognition Employee Self Service Apply for a Job View Paycheck Access Tax Forms Manage Dependents Update Emergency Information Address Change View Work Details DUO Two-Factor Authentication Enhanced Application Security Allows Changes to Direct Deposit Manager Self Service Employment Verification & Records Employee File Retention Guidelines Official Employee Files Verification of Employment Lusher Charter School Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Program Vacation Donation View and Make Changes to your Record HR Technology & Systems Position Change Presentation BPM Performance Management Manager Self-Service Change an Employees Status Propose a Pay Change Process a Termination Reassign Direct Reports Recruitment & Hiring Update an Employees Location Labor Distribution Kronos HR Business Intelligence (BI) and Reporting Disability & Accommodations Who We Are Workplace Accommodations Accessibility for Students Events Accommodations, Maps & Parking Frequently Asked Questions Accommodations System Training Religious Accommodation Separating from the University Loss of Coverage (COBRA) Occupational Health Report A Work Injury COVID-19 COVID-19 Employee FAQs COVID-19 Vaccination Policy COVID-19 Accessibility Requests & Accommodations COVID-19 Benefits and Wellness FAQs Temporary Emergency COVID-19 Paid Leave Program Staffing Needs, Hiring & Student Employment Working Remotely/Flexible Work Arrangement LinkedIn Learning Work Anywhere Resources COVID-19 HR Communications HR Announcements Gibson Online Handbooks Visit Give to Tulane Information For... Home / COVID-19 / COVID-19 Vaccination Policy / COVID-19 Vaccination Policy COVID-19 Vaccination Policy The University has adopted a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination policy. The purpose of this policy is to promote important public health measures and facilitate the health and safety of the Tulane community and those within the broader New Orleans community. The COVID-19 vaccines currently available are effective at decreasing the likelihood of contracting COVID-19, preventing serious illness in vaccinated individuals who do contract COVID-19 and limiting the transmission of COVID-19. This vaccination requirement is critical part of the University’s overall plan to mitigate the effects of COVID-19. Vaccinated individuals must continue to comply with other applicable University rules regarding COVID-19. Booster Requirement Booster vaccines are quickly emerging as the best defense against the Omicron variant, which is responsible for an increasing number of new infections. All faculty and staff are currently required to receive a booster vaccine once they become eligible (six months after completing their initial series). In the spring semester, we also expect to require booster vaccines for students when they become eligible to receive them. We strongly urge any student who is currently eligible to receive their booster to do so prior to the beginning of the spring semester. Who Is Covered? All employees, approved volunteers, emeritus faculty, and visiting faculty who physically access a university facility or participate in a university-sponsored program or on-campus activity are covered by this policy. Access is not defined by reference to any frequency such as daily, weekly, ad hoc, etc. How Do I Comply? All persons currently at the university and that are covered by this policy must be fully vaccinated by November 15, 2021, unless granted a medical or religious exemption. All persons hired by the University after September 24, 2021, are required to show proof they are fully vaccinated prior to their start date unless granted a medical or religious exemption. Persons will be provided information on how to apply for a medical or religious exception prior to their first day of work and will not be permitted to come to campus until a determination has been made with respect to the exemption request. A person is considered fully vaccinated when two weeks have passed since completion of a COVID-19 vaccine series (for example, 1 dose of the J&J vaccine or 2 doses of the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine); as well as any boosters consistent with CDC and FDA guidance. All persons covered by this policy must provide proof of vaccination by uploading a copy of their official CDC COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card to the Campus Health Patient Portal. Persons who have attempted to comply but are unable to meet the deadlines for full vaccination or submitting the required documents for an exemption, through no fault of their own, may contact Human Resources in advance of November 1, 2021, to request a temporary extension of the deadline. When And Where Should I Receive Vaccination(s)? Information on local vaccine providers is available at campushealth.tulane.edu. You are not required to receive a vaccination at these locations and may choose a vaccine provider of your preference. Employees will be paid for time off to receive the COVID-19 vaccination and for time to recover from ill effects if any. Employees are to work with their supervisor to schedule an appropriate time to comply with this policy. Can I Be Exempt From This Policy? An exemption for medical or religious reasons may be granted. Persons requesting a medical or religious exemption must make their request by submitting the COVID-19 Vaccination Medical Exemption Form and or the COVID-19 Vaccination Religious Exemption Form no later than October 15, 2021 to allow time for review. Requests will be reviewed by Human Resources and/or the Office of Campus Accessibility and may involve an interactive process to discuss the request if questions arise during the review process. Persons granted an exemption must comply with all University rules and protocols for unvaccinated persons. An approved medical or religious exemption does not automatically allow a person to work remotely. Managers will be notified of employees that have been granted an exemption to monitor for compliance with COVID-19 protocols. No confidential information or the type of exemption that was granted should be shared. All requests for exemption and related documentation will be maintained by Human Resources and approval decisions are typically processed within three business days after submission If you have previously reported declination of vaccination, you will now need to submit for exemption from vaccination. An exemption request is pending until notice of approval or denial is submitted by Tulane. To apply for a medical exemption, complete the form found here and submit to ADAAccess@tulane.edu. To apply for a religious exemption, complete the form found here and submit to EmployeeRelations@tulane.edu. What Are The Consequences For Not Complying? Employee failure to comply with this policy, including violations of requirements for those that have been granted an exemption, may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination consistent with the terms of the Faculty and Staff Handbooks. Non-Retaliation The University prohibits any form of retaliation for requesting or receiving an exemption under this policy or for reporting a possible violation of this policy or any other health or safety concern. Policy Modification Government and public health guidance regarding COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines are changing as new information becomes available. The University reserves the right to modify this policy at any time in its sole discretion to adapt to changing circumstances and business needs, consistent with its commitment to promoting the health and safety of the Tulane community. Who Can I Contact If I Have Questions? ADAaccess@tulane.edu or EmployeeRelations@tulane.edu How Can I Apply For Exemption? To apply for a medical exemption, complete the form found here and submit to ADAAccess@tulane.edu. To apply for a religious exemption, complete the form found here and submit to EmployeeRelations@tulane.edu. An exemption request is pending until notice of approval or denial is submitted by Tulane. COVID-19 Employee FAQs COVID-19 Vaccination Policy COVID-19 Accessibility Requests & Accommodations COVID-19 Benefits and Wellness FAQs Temporary Emergency COVID-19 Paid Leave Program Staffing Needs, Hiring & Student Employment Working Remotely/Flexible Work Arrangement LinkedIn Learning Work Anywhere Resources COVID-19 HR Communications Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University HR 1555 Poydras St., Suite 964 New Orleans, LA 70112 Phone: 504-865-4748 (HR4U) Fax: 504-865-6727 Email: hr@tulane.edu Office Hours: M – F, 8:30 - 5:00 Maps & Directions Tulane University is committed to respecting your privacy. You can view the University privacy notice HERE. News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University