Skip to main content Tulane Home HR Announcements Gibson Online Handbooks Visit Give to Tulane Information For... Search Information for... Equal Opportunity & Resolution Management Investigation Process Chart Visitors Parents & Families Consensual Relationships Policy Faculty & Staff Vacation Accruals & Carry Over Current Students Faculty Handbook Staff Handbook Student Policies and Procedures 2020 Open Enrollment Guide Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu search hr.tulane.edu Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Search Jobs About Tulane Benefits & Pay Candidate Resources Life at Tulane HR Announcements Gibson Online Handbooks Visit Give to Tulane Information For... Home / Jobs / Benefits & Pay Benefits & Pay At Tulane, we care about your quality of life now and in the years to come. As an employee of the university, you can rest assured that you will receive competitive benefits & pay and a variety of options to preserve your health and well-being, secure your financial future so that you are able to enjoy more out of life. Competitive Pay We recognize that competitive pay is the cornerstone for recruiting, retaining, and motivating a diverse and qualified workforce. To this end, our compensation philosophy is to pay all categories of employees at competitive levels established by external labor markets, considering both salary and benefits as a total compensation package. Health & Wellness We provide comprehensive health & wellness options to help our employees take care of themselves and their families. This includes your choice of two medical plans, dental, vision, flexible spending options, long term disability and life insurance options. We also offer a robust wellness program which includes access to the Tulane Living Well Clinic onsite and available to our employees. Retirement Plans From day one of employment, we offer a variety of ways to help our employees ensure their futures are financially secure by offering competitive retirement plans. Tuition Waiver Program The Tuition Waiver Program provides the opportunity for employees and their family members to continue their education at Tulane. Each semester, eligible employees and their eligible family members may receive exemption from tuition. Work & Life We understand that there is more to life than just work and we strive to help our employees achieve balance. Our time away policies provide a variety of competitive options to accommodate diverse needs and life events including time off for vacation, observing holidays, sick leave, caring for a family member, the birth or adoption of a child, the loss of a family member, and more. We also offer two child care centers located right on campus, and an Employee Assistance Program which offers solutions for living well at home and work. Connected to Community Here at Tulane, not only are you an employee, you're a member of our community. And the Tulane community loves to serve! In fact, Tulanians log over 450,000 hours of community service every year. Ready to Apply? We encourage you to apply for all the jobs of interest that match your experience and education. Search Jobs Benefits & Pay Competitive Pay Health & Wellness Retirement Plans Tuition Waiver Program Work & Life Connected to Community Candidate Resources Our Hiring Process Applicant FAQs Interview Tips Need Assistance? Life at Tulane Destinations in NOLA Eat, Stay, Play Getting Here Uptown Campus Map Downtown Campus Map Competitive Pay Health & Wellness Retirement Plans Tuition Waiver Program Work & Life Connected to Community Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University HR 1555 Poydras St., Suite 964 New Orleans, LA 70112 Phone: 504-865-4748 (HR4U) Fax: 504-865-6727 Email: hr@tulane.edu Office Hours: M – F, 8:30 - 5:00 Maps & Directions Tulane University is committed to respecting your privacy. You can view the University privacy notice HERE. News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University