Skip to main content Tulane Home HR Announcements Gibson Online Handbooks Visit Give to Tulane Information For... Search Information for... Equal Opportunity & Resolution Management Investigation Process Chart Visitors Parents & Families Consensual Relationships Policy Faculty & Staff Vacation Accruals & Carry Over Current Students Faculty Handbook Staff Handbook Student Policies and Procedures 2020 Open Enrollment Guide Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search search tulane.edu search hr.tulane.edu Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Search Jobs About Tulane Benefits & Pay Candidate Resources Life at Tulane HR Announcements Gibson Online Handbooks Visit Give to Tulane Information For... Home / Jobs / Life at Tulane Life at Tulane Destinations in NOLA Tulane is situated in one of the most amazing cities in the world, New Orleans, Louisiana. From scenic uptown neighborhoods to the historic downtown area, there are no shortages of places to explore. Continue reading to get a glimpse of some of our favorite places. Eat, Stay, Play New Orleans is one of the most historically rich cities in the country as well as one of the culinary capitals of the world. When visiting Tulane’s campus, we have a number of suggestions for lodging, restaurants, and celebrated events. See what we get up to while in New Orleans. Getting Here On this page, you'll find information about how to get to campus, how to navigate from the airport and various travel options. Interactive Campus Maps Our interactive campus maps are available to help you to find your way around campus. Both the uptown and downtown interactive maps allow you to zoom, scroll and get detailed information about our buildings, dining facilities, other points of interest, driving directions and parking information. Ready to Apply? We encourage you to apply for all the jobs of interest that match your experience and education. Search Jobs Life at Tulane Destinations in NOLA Eat, Stay, Play Getting Here Uptown Campus Map Downtown Campus Map Benefits & Pay Competitive Pay Health & Wellness Retirement Plans Tuition Waiver Program Work & Life Connected to Community Candidate Resources Our Hiring Process Applicant FAQs Interview Tips Need Assistance? Destinations in NOLA Eat, Stay, Play Getting Here Uptown Campus Map Downtown Campus Map Need Assistance? Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University HR 1555 Poydras St., Suite 964 New Orleans, LA 70112 Phone: 504-865-4748 (HR4U) Fax: 504-865-6727 Email: hr@tulane.edu Office Hours: M – F, 8:30 - 5:00 Maps & Directions Tulane University is committed to respecting your privacy. You can view the University privacy notice HERE. News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University