Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Human Resources Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Human Resources Search Search GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Search Search Current Employee Expand Applying for University Vacancies Career Management Compensation Compliance Conflict Management Coronavirus Resources Dealing with Workplace Changes or Job Transitions Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Employee Information System Employee Services Flexible Work Arrangements Forms Insurance Learning & Development New Employees Occupational Health Program Retirement Checklist Retirement Programs Staff Awards Sporadic Employment Time Off UTemps Furlough Program FAQs Prospective Employee Expand About Austin Applying Benefits Compensation Learning & Development Temporary Employment Retired Employee Expand Checklist Employment After Retirement Forms for Retired Employees Insurance Part-Time Work Support & Services Student Employee Expand Academic Employment Celebrate Student Employees Compensation Eligibility to Work Employee Insurance & Benefits Employment Resources Finding a Student Job Forms for Student Employees Learning & Development Managing Student Employees New Student Employee Checklist Non-Academic Employment Orientation & Training Student Employee Excellence & Development (SEED) Student Employment Questions and Answers Supervisor’s Checklist for Hiring a New Student Employee Manager & HR Pro Expand Compensation Coronavirus Resources Departmental Compliance Flexible Work Arrangements Forms for Managers Hiring and Separation HR Spectrum I-9 and E-Verify Resources Learning & Development Management Tools Organization Effectiveness Performance Management Timekeeping Training for HR Professionals Workers Compensation Insurance (for Managers) About Expand HR Partnerships Organizational Chart Our Organization Staff Directory Contact Expand Directions Find Your HR Representative Need Help? GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Home Manager & HR Pro : Coronavirus Resources for Employees Coronavirus Resources for Employees Employees Timekeeping: On March 11, 2021, the US Congress passed the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA). Included in the law, is a provision that allows the university to provide additional paid leave to all employees, including non-benefits eligible and student employees, who are unable to work or telework for any of the following reasons: The employee is obtaining the COVID-19 vaccine; The employee is recovering from an illness, injury or condition related to the COVID-19 vaccine; The employee is subject to a Federal, State, or local quarantine or isolation order related to COVID-19; The employee has been advised by a health care provider to self-quarantine related to COVID-19; The employee is experiencing COVID-19 symptoms and is seeking a medical diagnosis; The employee is caring for an individual subject to a quarantine or isolation order as described in (3), or has been advised to self-isolate as described in (4); The employee is caring for their child(ren) whose school or place of care is closed, or whose child care provider is unavailable due to COVID-19 related reasons; or The employee is experiencing any other substantially-similar condition specified by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. In response to this legislation, the university has added two weeks (80 hours for full-time; prorated for part-time) of Emergency Paid Sick Leave (EPSL) to your leave balances in Workday for use between May 1, 2021 and September 30, 2021. With the exception of the two vaccine related reasons for taking leave, this new version of EPSL is identical to the version that was implemented in April 2020 as part of the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFRCA). For additional information please refer to the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Paid Leave webpage. Health Benefits: Employees with health plans should check the UT System Office of Employee Benefits page related to COVID-19 for updates. The UT Select and UT Connect medical insurance plans now cover COVID-19 testing and treatment at 100% when using a network provider. The deadline to use funds contributed to a UT FLEX Daycare or Healthcare Reimbursement Account was extended. Employees who would like to start, stop, or change their contributions to a UT FLEX account needed to do so by April 30, 2021. Retirement Plans: The CARES Act provides employees participating in the UT Saver 403(b) Tax Sheltered Annuity (TSA) and the UT Saver 457(b) Deferred Compensation Plan (DCP) with additional loan and distribution options. Report Testing or Symptoms of COVID-19 to OHP: In order to slow the spread of COVID-19 and to help keep our employees safe, it is important that employees and managers report symptoms and testing regardless of test results to the Occupational Health Program (OHP) as soon as possible. Contact us: 512-471-4647 or healthpoint.ohp@austin.utexas.edu to report COVID-19 symptoms or COVID-19 tests regardless of test results. OHP will provide public health guidance, assist with notification of close contacts, review leave options, and establish return to work criteria with the impacted employee. The impacted employee will check in virtually with OHP daily through a Symptom Tracking tool while the employee practices self-isolation or self-quarantine. See a helpful guide on Social Distancing, Monitoring, Quarantine, and Isolation (PDF). This guide is also available in Spanish (PDF). Visit the OHP website for more information and guidance. Employee Leave: Employees working to support the university’s core priorities should - with guidance from their supervisor - work remotely whenever possible. If essential and core work functions must be performed on campus, you should follow social distancing and other preventive measures. Supervisors are continually assessing staffing needs during this evolving time. Ask your supervisor if you have questions about your responsibilities and work location. Contact your Human Resources representative if you have questions about time entry. Effective March 6, 2020, the university waived the requirement for employees to submit a doctor’s note to excuse absences related to respiratory illness. If an employee (faculty or staff) tests positive for COVID-19 or is considered presumed positive by their healthcare provider, please contact the HealthPoint Occupational Health Program (OHP). OHP will provide campus and public health guidance on self-isolation criteria & tracking, assist with notification of close contacts, review leave options and establish return to work criteria. Employees who test negative for COVID-19 should not return to on-campus work until 24 hours have passed without symptoms and at least 10 days have passed since the onset of symptoms regardless of a negative test result. Employees should practice self-isolation during this time. Employees should report that they were tested for COVID-19 to the HealthPoint Occupational Health Program regardless of a negative result. If an employee is experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, regardless if they have been tested for COVID-19, they should report their symptoms to the HealthPoint Occupational Health Program. Employees may be required to self-quarantine due to recent travel from a Level 3 region or due to other public health guidance. Federal leave provisions were available to employees impacted by COVID-19, now expired. For more information, including instructions for usage and frequently asked questions, please refer to the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Paid Leave webpage. Telemedicine, Telecounseling, and Self-Care Employees and graduate students with Blue Cross/Blue Shield (BC/BS TX) UT Select or Academic Blue health insurance can access: BCBS TX 24/7 Nurseline - https://healthpoint.utexas.edu/247-nurse-line Covered telemedicine visits with network providers will continue to be at the “office visit” level with the same copay that would apply for an in-person visit for the same care. Out-of-network benefits apply to telemedicine visits by non-network providers. MDLive for virtual visits with doctors, licensed psychiatrists and licensed counselors available 24/7 at https://healthpoint.utexas.edu/living-well-programs. MDLive visits are covered 100%. Employees can access video counseling services through the Employee Assistance Program at https://eap.utexas.edu View the Guide to Day to Day Living Under COVID-19 for resources to stay mentally and physically healthy, connect with and support UT employees, and work on your own professional development and growth Employee Teleworking and Remote Work Those whose positions accommodate remote work should contact their supervisor for guidance on flexible work arrangements and teleworking options. More information about Flexible Work Arrangements (FWA) can be found on the FWA Page A temporary Alternative Flexible Work Arrangement (FWA) is available for employees with individuals residing in their household with certain immunocompromised medical conditions. Consider the use of online technology tools for meetings and events See additional tools and resources for online work and remote collaboration (PDF) The ITS Help Desk is available via remote options Call 512-475-9400 Email help@utexas.edu Submit a help request online Information Security: Don’t click on links from sources you don’t know. Ignore online offers for vaccinations, investment opportunities, or emails from bad actors claiming to be trusted sources. For guidance on prevention and other resources, visit the University Health Services coronavirus web page. If you suspect that you have been a victim of a phishing attempt and fear that your UT EID or other university account has been compromised, contact the UT Service Desk at 512-475-9400 or help@its.utexas.edu. Managers HR Manager Mask Guidance Masks are optional inside university buildings and outdoors. For individuals who are not fully vaccinated or have weakened immune systems, masking is optional but recommended. COVID Cost Containment Strategies: Furlough Program in Response to COVID-19 On This Page Employees Timekeeping Health Benefits Employee Leave Telemedicine and Telecounseling Employee Teleworking and Remote Work Information Security Managers HR Manager Mask Guidance COVID Cost Containment Strategies Latest Updates UT Coronavirus Page University Health Services Coronavirus Resources FAS Coronavirus Information and Operational Status Page FAS Communications Human Resources Human Resource Service Center 1616 Guadalupe St., Suite 1.408 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-471-4772 (HRSC) Phone (Toll Free): 800-687-4178 Fax: 512-232-3524 Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Website Comment Form Facebook Google Translate/En Español Need Help? Find Your HR Representative HR Staff Directory Human Resource Service Center Workday UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022