Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Human Resources New Employees Faculty Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Search form Search Main menu Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Engagement. Experience. Excellence. Employment Opportunities You are here Home › Recruitment Careers @ UO UO is currently accepting applications for a variety of positions. Instructions for applying are included in each job posting. The University of Oregon is committed to cultural diversity, equity, and inclusion. The University encourages all qualified individuals to apply, and does not discriminate on the basis of any protected status, including veteran and disability status. Open positions are listed on the following postings: Faculty and Staff Positions Graduate Fellowships Student Positions The University of Oregon strives to catalyze a new era of creativity and discovery by attracting the best and most diverse talent. We pursue qualified, career-minded individuals who contribute to UO's quest to be one of the nation's top universities. Working @ UO Notice for New Hires - Effective January 1, 2020 Due to changes in federal requirements regarding the minimum pay for exempt (salaried) positions, positions currently posted as exempt will be reviewed at the time of hire. Any positions offered under the new federally mandated minimum salary of $35,568 annually ($684 per week) may be offered by the University as non-exempt positions paid on an hourly basis. If you have questions about this, please contact the Talent Acquisition team at uocareers@uoregon.edu or 541-346-5112 (6-5112 from on campus). Applicant Support UO posts job opportunities on its online application system, MyTrack, and applications are accepted only through the MyTrack application process. UO no longer accepts paper applications. What you need to know: If you have never applied for a job in our online system, you will need to create an applicant profile. You are prompted to create an applicant profile when you choose to apply for a position. If you have previously applied in MyTrack, you can return to your applicant profile by signing in with your email address and password used to set up your account. Once your profile is set up, you will use the same e-mail address and password to log in to the applicant portal and apply for positions, manage applications, and view the status of your applications. We did not import profile information from our previous applicant system, which was discontinued as of March 1. FAQs for Applicants Background Screening Process In addition to reviewing employment references, the university conducts job-related background checks prior to hire in order to ensure a safe and secure work environment in which university faculty, staff, students, resources, and assets are protected, while protecting the integrity and confidentiality of information gathered during the evaluation. Background checks are normally conducted on the finalist only following the issuance of a contingent offer of employment. Candidates with questions should contact the Talent Acquisition unit in HR at 541-346-5112 or by email at talent@uoregon.edu. Background Check Information for Candidates Veterans and UO The University of Oregon encourages qualified veterans to apply for positions. As a public employer, the Oregon Veterans’ Preference in Public Employment Law requires UO to give preference for eligible veterans. To be eligible for preference under the Law, veterans have to identify as covered veterans and submit supporting documentation as outlined in the implementing regulations. When applying for positions, it is important for all applicants to clearly demonstrate that they meet minimum and special qualifications. It is important for veterans to highlight transferable skills from their military or other experience that might enhance their candidacy. For more information, please contact Talent Acquisition in Human Resources, 541-346-5112, uocareers@uoregon.edu (link sends e-mail). Resources for Veterans Veterans’ Services –Oregon Department of Veterans’ Affairs Veterans Services of Lane County (link is external) Employment Opportunities Benefits of University Employment Careers@UO Additional Resources Temporary Positions E-mail Announcements Greater Oregon Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (GO HERC) FAQs Employment Opportunities › Printer-friendly version Human Resources Resources HR News & Announcements Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources Campus Partners Academic Affairs Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Shared Retirement Plan Services Contact Us Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541 346-3159 F: 541 346-2548 hrinfo@uoregon.edu CareersPrivacy PolicyAboutFind People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Take Action Apply Visit Give Quick Links Contact Form Employee Records & Verification of Employment Forms Jobs New Employee Orientation Policies & Leaves Wellness Recognition Staff List Ask a question Site Navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Careers @ UO Employment Opportunities Background Check Information MyTrack: FAQs-Applicants Veterans and UO Working @ UO MyTrack: Recruitment Module Hiring Faculty and Staff International Recruitment Background Check Guidelines Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Recruitment Workflow Consult Contact Talent Acquisition