Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home A-Z Listing Find People Search UC Riverside Human Resources Helping employees maximize their potential About Us Campus Conversations - HR Summary Contact Us UCR Organizational Charts Org. Chart Submittal Guidelines HR News & Events HR Events HR News and Updates HR Departments Benefits Chancellor's Recognition Program DBR Resources COVID-19 Response from UC Health Plans Faculty Staff Assistance Program Health Care Facilitator Health and Welfare Plans New Faculty and Staff Retirement Gift Program Senior Managment Group Benefits UC Disability Benefits UC Retirement Benefits Employee and Organizational Development UCR Core Competency Model Course Catalog Leadership Skills Development Building Core Supervisory Competencies Management Skills Assessment Program People Management Certificate Online Learning Resources Professional Development Monthly Highlander Mentor Connection My UC Career Transferable Skills Library UC Coro UC Women's Initiative for Professional Development UC Learning Center Employee and Labor Relations Collective Bargaining Collective Bargaining Agreements Union Contracts and Representative Contacts Corrective Action ELR Unit Assignments Employee Complaint Process Supervisor Resources Equal Employment and Affirmative Action Talent Acquisition College to Career Program Outsourcing for Covered Services Recruitment Policies & Procedures Remployment of UC Retired Employees into Staff Positions Rehire Retiree Pool Program UCR Jobs Temporary Employment Services UCR New Staff Orientation Temporary Worker Guidelines Total Compensation Compensation Contacts Compensation Procedures & Gudelines Equity Increase & Equity Reviews Overtime Guidelines - Flat Rate Payments PPSM-30: UC Policy PPSM-30: Local Guidance Compensation Services & Classifications Career Tracks Series Concepts and Specifications/Job Standards Salary Programs at a Glance Positions & Process Overview Reclassification of Filled Positions UC Student Intern Decision Matrix Compensation Resources & Documents Fair Labor Standards Act Staff Appreciation & Recognition Plan Senior Managment Group Job Description Guidelines Workplace Health and Wellness Resources Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program UCR HR Operational Assessment Report Coronavirus (COVID-19) - Staff Information and Resources UCR COVID-19 Employee Emergency Fund UCR COVID-19 Symptom Monitoring and Reporting Procedures for Covered Employees and Supervisors Changes to UC Benefits / FSA Programs COVID-19 - UCR Staff Q & A Supervisor Guidance - New Hires During Campus Closure Employee Resources Faculty and Staff Assistance Program HR Tools Human Resources Management System HRMS FAQs Performance Management Remote Work Supervisor Resources Supervisor Guidance - New Hires During Campus Closure Employee Recognition Layoff Information: Supervisors Working With Vets, Military Members & Military Families Policies Personnel Policies & Local Procedures A-Z Policies and Procedures Finder UCPath @UCR Forms and Documents Accommodations Benefits Education & Development Employee & Labor Relations General Administration Leave of Absence Performance Management Salary Information Talent Acquisition/Diversity Outreach Work/Life UCR Home A-Z Listing Find People Breadcrumb Coronavirus - COVID-19 - HR Information and Resources Coronavirus (COVID-19) – Information and Resources Stay up-to-date on UCR campus information and resources for COVID-19; please visit the UCR Coronavirus (COVID-19) webpage. On this page, Human Resources is providing information and resources for UCR staff to navigate through the campus impact from COVID-19. COVID-19 News Update – At-Home Over-the-Counter COVID-19 Tests - January 27, 2022 Extension – Vacation Maximum Accrual and Emergency Paid Sick Leave (EPSL) - September 22, 2021 Update - UCR Vaccination Policy (8.13.21) UCR Face Covering Policy webpage UCR Face Covering While Indoors (7.28.21) UCR Vaccination Policy (7.27.21) California is Open - CDC Travel Guidelines (7.26.21) UC Vaccination Policy has gone into effect (July 16. 2021) Message from Chancellor Wilcox - Campus and Workplace COVID Update (June 23, 2021) COVID-19 Related Leaves for Policy-Covered and Represented Staff Employee (Revised May 10, 2021) UC 2021 Emergency Paid Sick Leave (EPSL) Notice and 2021 EPSL Request Form (Revised May 10, 2021) New! Interim Policy: SARS-CoV-2 Vaccination Program UC COVID-19 Related Leaves for Policy-Covered and Represented Staff Employees All UCR employees now eligible for COVID-19 vaccine Clarification on the COVID-19 - Paid Time Off and Use of PAL Interim Policy: SARS-CoV-2 Vaccination Program UC COVID-19 Vaccine Policy COVID-19 Related Leaves and Job Protections Guidance for Policy-Covered and Represented Staff Employees - Sixth Issuance (November 18, 2020) University of California Executive Order - published November 17, 2020 COVID-19 Related Leaves and Job Protection Guidance for Policy-Covered and Represented Staff Employees - Revised 10.13.2020. The SHR COVID-19 guidance has been updated along with the EPSL/EFML forms. UCR COVID-19 Employee Emergency Fund established UCR COVID-19 Symptom Monitoring and Reporting Procedures for Covered Staff and Supervisors Proclamation Suspending Entry of Aliens Who Present a Risk to the U.S. Labor Market Following the Coronavirus Outbreak HR COVID-19 Resources UCR Face Covering Policy On July 27, 2021, the CDC and CDPH issued new guidance recommending mask wearing indoors for areas where COVID-19 transmission is high. Southern California and Riverside County fall into this category. In response to changing conditions, UCR has updated the campus requirements. View the UCR Face Covering Policy. For additional information about UCR COVID-19 resources, please visit the Environmental Health & Safety Coronavirus COVID-19 webpage and the UCR Campus Return webpage. UCR Vaccination Policy As announced , the UC Office of the President released the final COVID-19 vaccination policy. Faculty, staff and students can submit their proof of vaccine via the Employee Vaccine Tracking and the Student Portal. Proof of vaccination or request for an exemption/deferral must be submitted by August 16, 2021. View the UCR Vaccination Policy. The UCR Vaccination Policy was updated on August 13, 201. Remote Work At UCR we also want to unearth new discoveries, deliver a high-quality educational experience, and provide services in support of student success. Ultimately, we need to consider work location in the context of both individual performance and community. For information about Remote Work at UCR, please visit the HR Remote Work webpage. Campus Return Working remotely is the default mode of operation and all are requested to continue to do so until further notice. All returns to the workplace must be pre-approved. If you have any questions or concerns about this, please speak with your supervisor. Additionally, with the understanding that spikes or outbreaks of new COVID-19 infections could occur, all operations will be ready to retreat to conservative phases if safety concerns arise. The Campus Return webpage provides guidance which applies to all employees who perform duties on campus or UC leased or affiliated properties, unless the facility has expressly provided different instructions. UCPath COVID-19 FAQs To reassure all, the UCPath Center has notified all campuses that the UCPath Payroll will continue amidst COVID-19 mitigation measures. Payroll processing is a critical function and will continue during the campus closure. We are also working locally as a campus to ensure that we have the structure in place to support on-time payroll processing and timely responses/updates. To view the UCPath COVID-19 FAQs, please visit the UCPath Campus Support Center website. UCR COVID-19 Staff Q&A The UCR Covid-19 Staff Q & A webpage is a resource for UCR staff to get information and policy updates including: Paid Administrative Leave, Telecommuting / Parking and Students and Other Part-Time Employees. Supervisor Guidance The Supervisor Guidance – New Hires During Campus Closure webpage provides guidance to assist campus units in navigating staff and undergraduate student hiring, onboarding, off-boarding and leave actions during the period of the closure, and as employees begin to use Paid Administrative Leave due to the COVID-19 crisis. UC Benefits Plans FSA Program The UCR Health & Welfare Benefits team have been working closely with UCPath, the Office of General Counsel, the plan administrators and carriers, and their consulting partners to understand the impact of the new rule and guidance and develop implementation plans. The Important Changes to UC Benefits / FSA Programs webpage details what benefits plan changes has been determined to date. Please note that this is a constantly evolving landscape, and we will continue to share information as it becomes available. Important Changes to UC Benefits Programs for Pandemic Relief COVID-19 – Response from UC Health Plans as of 3/23/2020 Update to Changes to Flexible Spending Accounts due to COVID-19 Fidelity Investments Retirement and Financial Planning Consultations Availability Health Plan’s Response to COVID-19 The COVID-19 Response from UC Health Plans webpage is a resource for the Department Benefits Representative with information that highlights what UC participating medical providers offer for care and services for employees and retirees affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. EOD Mindful Resources EOD is providing a list of resources that may be useful to managers and supervisors during these challenging times. As a UC employee, you have access to CEB Global, which is an excellent resource for information on how to respond, manage and prepare for the impact of coronavirus in the workforce. Simply register with your UCR email address. Manager Guide: Managing Remote Employees Checklist for Managing Employees Remotely Managing Virtual Teams Employee Guide: Working on a Virtual Team Staying Focused When You're Working From Home Working in a Virtual Team: Using Technology to Communicate and Collaborate Ergonomics Working Remotely Working Remotely provides useful tips and simple strategies to improve your ergonomics and your work-from-home (or from any remote location) experience. Ergonomics - Working Remotely YouTube Video - Working from Home Working Remote Tips Working Healthy at Home A series of tips, resources and webinars from the UCR Faculty/Staff Wellness Program and Healthy Campus aimed to help you and your family navigate challenges with staying healthy while working from home. Working Healthy at Home - How to get started Taking Care of Your Behavioral Health Resources for Equipment-Free Workouts How to Boost Your Mood - Happiness Hacks Taking Care of Your Behavioral Health Prevention and Safety Reminders Stay Well Tips from Environmental Health & Safety Ergonomic Tips for Working Remotely Healthy Snacks, Meals and Grocery List Gardening Tips Eating Towards a Healthy Immune System Ways to Social and Keep Your Distance Working from Home With Kids Healthy Foods You Can Use Ways to Maximize Working Remotely COVID-19 Prevention & Well-Being Newsletter Plan, Shop, Save and Cook Healthy Eating at Home Getting Through the Tough Times Financial Wellness Healthy Tips You Can Do at Home Suicide Prevention and Recovery Month Tips for Working/Studying at Home - Micro Lifts Taking Care of Your Health and Well-Being During COVID-19 - UCR Healthy Campus is offering a webinar series with expert leaders to provide us with information, tools, and resources, as we transition into this new way of life. Webinar 1 - Dealing with Uncertainty in the Era of COVID-19 Webinar 2 - Attending to Your Health and Well-Being during COVID-19 Webinar 3 - Staying Mentally Well in the Age of COVID Webinar 4 - Thinking About Students’ Social and Emotional Health in COVID-19 LinkedIn Learning Remote Work Resources LinkedIn Learning Remote Work Resources Remote work is a new and uncharted territory for many of us. Yet, practically overnight, it is our new reality. Since it is now a requirement for UC Riverside staff, we want to give you the tools you need to remain productive while we navigate through this significant change in how we work. LinkedIn Learning has 16 online resources that will provide valuable insight into this new normal. Whether you are an employee who needs to learn how to use new tools, or a supervisor who wants to keep their staff engaged and productive, LinkedIn Learning has courses to help. To see a listing of suggested learning, please review the Suggested LinkedIn Learning Guide. For more information, please visit LinkedIn Learning – Work From Home Resources. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Department Information Mailing Address: UCR Human Resources 900 University Avenue, Riverside, California 92521 Location Address: University Village 1201 University Avenue, Suite 208 Riverside, California 92521 Tel: (951) 827-5588 | Fax: (951) 827-2672 Related Links Academic Personnel UCOP Human Resources Planning, Budget & Administration UCPath@UCR UCR Post Employment Benefits Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel