The Central Human Resources office remains closed for in-person visits until further notice. During this time, HR staff will continue to support our clients and the campus virtually. If you require assistance, you are welcome to contact us via email: humanresources@ucr.edu, telephone: (951) 827-5588, and Fax: (951) 827-2672. To see a list of HR contacts, please visit the UCR Human Resources Contact Us webpage. Thank you. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home A-Z Listing Find People Search UC Riverside Human Resources Helping employees maximize their potential About Us Campus Conversations - HR Summary Contact Us UCR Organizational Charts Org. Chart Submittal Guidelines HR News & Events HR Events HR News and Updates HR Departments Benefits Chancellor's Recognition Program DBR Resources COVID-19 Response from UC Health Plans Faculty Staff Assistance Program Health Care Facilitator Health and Welfare Plans New Faculty and Staff Retirement Gift Program Senior Managment Group Benefits UC Disability Benefits UC Retirement Benefits Employee and Organizational Development UCR Core Competency Model Course Catalog Leadership Skills Development Building Core Supervisory Competencies Management Skills Assessment Program People Management Certificate Online Learning Resources Professional Development Monthly Highlander Mentor Connection My UC Career Transferable Skills Library UC Coro UC Women's Initiative for Professional Development UC Learning Center Employee and Labor Relations Collective Bargaining Collective Bargaining Agreements Union Contracts and Representative Contacts Corrective Action ELR Unit Assignments Employee Complaint Process Supervisor Resources Equal Employment and Affirmative Action Talent Acquisition College to Career Program Outsourcing for Covered Services Recruitment Policies & Procedures Remployment of UC Retired Employees into Staff Positions Rehire Retiree Pool Program UCR Jobs Temporary Employment Services UCR New Staff Orientation Temporary Worker Guidelines Total Compensation Compensation Contacts Compensation Procedures & Gudelines Equity Increase & Equity Reviews Overtime Guidelines - Flat Rate Payments PPSM-30: UC Policy PPSM-30: Local Guidance Compensation Services & Classifications Career Tracks Series Concepts and Specifications/Job Standards Salary Programs at a Glance Positions & Process Overview Reclassification of Filled Positions UC Student Intern Decision Matrix Compensation Resources & Documents Fair Labor Standards Act Staff Appreciation & Recognition Plan Senior Managment Group Job Description Guidelines Workplace Health and Wellness Resources Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program UCR HR Operational Assessment Report Coronavirus (COVID-19) - Staff Information and Resources UCR COVID-19 Employee Emergency Fund UCR COVID-19 Symptom Monitoring and Reporting Procedures for Covered Employees and Supervisors Changes to UC Benefits / FSA Programs COVID-19 - UCR Staff Q & A Supervisor Guidance - New Hires During Campus Closure Employee Resources Faculty and Staff Assistance Program HR Tools Human Resources Management System HRMS FAQs Performance Management Remote Work Supervisor Resources Supervisor Guidance - New Hires During Campus Closure Employee Recognition Layoff Information: Supervisors Working With Vets, Military Members & Military Families Policies Personnel Policies & Local Procedures A-Z Policies and Procedures Finder UCPath @UCR Forms and Documents Accommodations Benefits Education & Development Employee & Labor Relations General Administration Leave of Absence Performance Management Salary Information Talent Acquisition/Diversity Outreach Work/Life UCR Home A-Z Listing Find People Breadcrumb Human Resources Benefits Be sure to visit our Benefits pages to learn about the benefits the University provides, depending on your type of appointment. If you are represented by a union, your compensation and benefits are governed by your union’s contract. Benefits of Belonging Health and Welfare Plans Every faculty and staff member plays an important role in UC’s mission of education, research and public service; UC’s high-quality, comprehensive benefits are among the rewards you receive in return. These benefits are an important part of your total compensation. Our health and welfare benefits program provides both choice and value to meet the needs of our diverse workforce. For more information, please visit the Health and Welfare Plans webpage. Chancellors' Recognition Plan The Chancellor’s Recognition of Staff & Faculty Service Program recognizes the dedication and service of staff, faculty and other eligible academic personnel (all non-student academic title series that accrue service credit are eligible). The program offers meaningful awards which recognize the commitment and contributions made to our students, the mission of the university, and the community. For more information, please visit the Chancellor's Recognition of Staff & Faculty Service Program webpage. Faculty and Staff Assistance Program The University of California, Riverside has collaborated with ComPsych® as the Faculty & Staff Assistance Program (FSAP) provider. The FSAP provider, through its GuidanceResources®, offers additional resources for faculty, staff and their household family members including confidential support, and resources and information for personal and work-life issues. ComPsych services are provided at no charge. For more information, please visit the UCR Faculty Staff Assistance Program webpage. Health Care Facilitator Your UC sponsored plans are an extremely valuable benefit and an important part of your compensation. The Health Care Facilitator Program was established to help you obtain full benefits and services available from your health, dental and vision plans. For more information, please visit the Health Care Facilitator webpage. UC Retirement Benefits Preparing for a successful retirement is one of the biggest financial responsibilities you will face. UC offers a comprehensive array of retirement benefits, savings programs, and educational and counseling resources to help you plan for retirement. To learn more about the UC Retirement Benefits program, please visit the UC Retirement Benefits webpage. Bright Horizons Care Advantage To help you balance work and family responsibilities, UC offers Bright Horizons Care Advantage, a comprehensive web-based resource. The Bright Horizons Care Advantage programs help you find pre-screened care resources that fit your family’s needs including the Extended Family Support Program. For more information about this system wide UC benefit, visit the UC Family Care Resources webpage or review the Bright Horizons Enhanced Family Supports FAQs. Department Benefits Representatives Access a variety of resources and information relevant to Department Benefits Representatives (DBRs), Management Services Officers, and Payroll and Benefits Assistants. For more information, please visit the Department Benefits Representatives Resources webpage. UC Disability Benefits Your disability benefits provide income to replace lost wages. Every disability is different and the University's benefits are designed to address individual situations and concerns. To learn about the various types of disability and resources, please visit the UC Disability Benefits webpage. New Faculty and Staff As a new or newly eligible employee, you have a 31-day Period of Initial Eligibility (PIE) to enroll yourself and eligible household family members(s). To learn about resources for new faculty and staff, please visit the New Faculty and Staff webpage. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Department Information Mailing Address: UCR Human Resources 900 University Avenue, Riverside, California 92521 Location Address: University Village 1201 University Avenue, Suite 208 Riverside, California 92521 Tel: (951) 827-5588 | Fax: (951) 827-2672 Related Links Academic Personnel UCOP Human Resources Planning, Budget & Administration UCPath@UCR UCR Post Employment Benefits Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel