Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Human Resources Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Human Resources Search Search GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Search Search Current Employee Expand Applying for University Vacancies Career Management Compensation Compliance Conflict Management Coronavirus Resources Dealing with Workplace Changes or Job Transitions Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Employee Information System Employee Services Flexible Work Arrangements Forms Insurance Learning & Development New Employees Occupational Health Program Retirement Checklist Retirement Programs Staff Awards Sporadic Employment Time Off UTemps Furlough Program FAQs Prospective Employee Expand About Austin Applying Benefits Compensation Learning & Development Temporary Employment Retired Employee Expand Checklist Employment After Retirement Forms for Retired Employees Insurance Part-Time Work Support & Services Student Employee Expand Academic Employment Celebrate Student Employees Compensation Eligibility to Work Employee Insurance & Benefits Employment Resources Finding a Student Job Forms for Student Employees Learning & Development Managing Student Employees New Student Employee Checklist Non-Academic Employment Orientation & Training Student Employee Excellence & Development (SEED) Student Employment Questions and Answers Supervisor’s Checklist for Hiring a New Student Employee Manager & HR Pro Expand Compensation Coronavirus Resources Departmental Compliance Flexible Work Arrangements Forms for Managers Hiring and Separation HR Spectrum I-9 and E-Verify Resources Learning & Development Management Tools Organization Effectiveness Performance Management Timekeeping Training for HR Professionals Workers Compensation Insurance (for Managers) About Expand HR Partnerships Organizational Chart Our Organization Staff Directory Contact Expand Directions Find Your HR Representative Need Help? GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Home Prospective Employee : Applying for Employment Applying for Employment The University of Texas at Austin is one of the largest employers in Austin and is committed to service, education, community and innovation. Human Resources (HR) supports the university in attracting, developing and retaining a highly qualified and diverse workforce. We provide an online job search and job application for regular and temporary employment. Staff Positions Please Note: The university has two job boards for staff: one for candidates who do not currently have an affiliation with the university and one for current employees and contingent workers. Job Search for Prospective Candidates with No UT Affiliations Job Search for External Applicants — Applicants without current affiliation to the university, search for part-time, full-time and temporary positions at the university. (DO NOT USE THIS LINK IF YOU ARE A CURRENT EMPLOYEE OR CONTINGENT WORKER) Job Search for Current University Employees and Contingent Workers Workday “Find UT Jobs” for Current Employees and Contingent Workers. Follow the Workday Instructional Guide Find and Apply for a Job (Internal) for step by step instructions. Other Staff Application Resources How to Apply — Get info about what to do when you find the job opening for you. UTemps — Learn about temporary positions at the university. More resources for student employees — Find other job listings and career services. Faculty Positions Faculty Recruitment Web — Check out the university's academic employment listings. Equal Opportunity Employer The University of Texas at Austin, as an equal opportunity / affirmative action employer, complies with all applicable federal and state laws regarding nondiscrimination and affirmative action. The University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity for all persons and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, marital status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, religion, or veteran status in employment, educational programs and activities, and admissions. Pay Transparency The University of Texas at Austin will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against employees or applicants because they have inquired about, discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation information of other employees or applicants as a part of their essential job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have access to compensation information, unless the disclosure is (a) in response to a formal complaint or charge, (b) in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted by the University, or (c) consistent with the University’s legal duty to furnish information. Veteran Employment Preference The University of Texas at Austin is proud to provide preference in employment to our veterans. For more information, please visit our Veterans’ Employment Preference webpage. Eligibility for Employment Criminal History Background Check It is the policy of The University of Texas at Austin to conduct a criminal background check including sex offender registry check on any applicant, internal or external, who is under final consideration for employment with the University. This applies to all full-time, part-time, regular, temporary or student positions. In addition, you will be required to provide in writing any criminal charges or convictions, including any requirement or possible requirement to register as a sex offender, which occurred after the date of your application. You would not be required to report misdemeanor offenses punishable only by a fine. If you fail to comply with this provision, may be disqualified from consideration for employment. Once hired, University policy requires employees to report to their supervisor within five business days any criminal complaint, information, indictment, no contest plea, guilty plea, or criminal convictions, including registration as sex offender or requirement to register as a sex offender. Misdemeanor offenses punishable only by fine do not need to be reported. Employment Eligibility Verification If hired, you will be required to complete the federal Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification. You will be required to present acceptable, original documents to prove your identity and authorization to work. You must present acceptable, original documents no later than the third work day, or you will not be employed by the University. Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification (PDF) The University of Texas at Austin use E-Verify to check the work authorization of all new hires effective May 2015. The university’s company ID number for purposes of E-Verify is 287159. For more information about E-Verify, please see the following: E-Verify Poster (PDF) Right To Work Poster - English (PDF) Right To Work Poster - Spanish (PDF) Selective Service Registration If you are a male between the ages of 18 and 25 at the time of hire you must verify that you are registered with the Selective Service or that you are exempt. If you are required to register and you have not, you cannot be employed at The University of Texas at Austin. You will need your Selective Service Registration Number which can be found on your registration card or the online Selective Service System. To register, use the Selective Service System. Labor Condition Application (LCA) View H-1B LCA Postings — View LCA postings for H-1B purposes. Quick Links Staff Jobs for Current UT Austin Employees (Search for Find UT Jobs) Staff Jobs for External Job Applicants Contact Info Email the Human Resource Service Center at hrsc@austin.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-4772 (HRSC) Prospective Employee About Austin Applying Application Process Veteran's Employment Preference Benefits Compensation Learning & Development Temporary Employment Human Resources Human Resource Service Center 1616 Guadalupe St., Suite 1.408 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-471-4772 (HRSC) Phone (Toll Free): 800-687-4178 Fax: 512-232-3524 Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Website Comment Form Facebook Google Translate/En Español Need Help? Find Your HR Representative HR Staff Directory Human Resource Service Center Workday UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022