Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Search Search GTranslate English EnglishChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPortugueseRussianSpanishVietnamese Search Search About EAP Expand Counseling & Consultations Expand Assessing Fitness for Duty Choosing a Therapist EAP Offers Video Counseling Helping a Troubled Employee Our Counselors Recognizing Troubled Employees and Troubling Situations Stratus Language Interpretation Blog Expand Referrals Expand BlueCross BlueShield (BCBS) Find a Therapist MDLive Stress Reduction Expand About Stress Reduction & Biofeedback Center Appointments Assertiveness Caregiver Stress Coping With the Blues Coronavirus Resources Dealing with Personal Stress and Change Relaxation Tracks Restore Your Sleep Stress Management Understanding Depression Victims Advocate Network (VAN) Yoga For Anxiety Trainings, Groups, & Handouts Expand Trainings Groups and Series Handouts Wellness Expand GTranslate English EnglishChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPortugueseRussianSpanishVietnamese Welcome to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) alt=" UT tower behind pink flowers" Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The EAP strives to embrace diversity and cultivate inclusion in all aspects of its operations to best serve all our clients. Learn More About Us Strengthening Relationships Presentation Series Join us monthly on zoom as speakers share their professional expertise on helping people strengthen their relationships, with a range of topics and strategies for intimate relationships, friendships, families, and coworkers. April's presentation is "How does 1+1=3 in thriving relationships?" presented by Lydia Valdés, MAT, MS, LPC on Tuesday 4/19 at 12 p.m. See Full Presentation Schedule Sign up for June's Presentation "Attachment Styles in Relationships" Mindful Meditation In a fast paced world, it can be difficult to bring ourselves into the moment and slow down. Mindfulness practices are simple yet powerful techniques to increase our connection to our immediate experience. These practices have very practical benefits in our lives such as improved concentration, increased energy, and better overall mood. EAP is offering guided mindfulness practices via the Zoom platform each Tuesday from 5pm-5:15pm and each Thursday from 12pm-12:15pm. Join us as we guide and instruct in mindful exercises that will help you feel more fully aware and present in the moments of everyday life. Learn More Here Sign Up Now Blog Resources Permission to Come Home: Play as Medicine Three Thoughts About Mental Health Awareness Month Hoarding And Clutter And Disorganization—Oh My! More Posts Additional Resources The stressful events of 2020 and 2021 have undoubtedly taken a toll on our well-being. The drag of the “pandemic effect” prolonged isolation, unstable labor market, mass protests for racial justice, and the great resignation, to name a few, have led to high rates of burnout, anxiety and depression. While we have all experienced these disrupters at the same time, we didn’t all experience it in the same way. With that, the level of support needed varies. We hope that this is the first of many conversations that begin to normalize mental health, making it part of our day-to-day discussions. HealthPoint Wellness LifeCare MDLive Counseling Services We are proud to provide brief counseling and consultation services, crisis intervention, assessment and referral, educational and training programs, and supervisory consultation. Para asistencia en español, haga clic aquí. The HealthPoint Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is currently open and providing services remotely through video and phone counseling*. Video counseling appointments are held via Zoom or Microsoft Teams. These are easy to use and secure systems for confidential services. To make an appointment, please call or email (information below). *The services offered and the eligibility requirements for video counseling are the same as in-person counseling provided by EAP. Hours: Monday-Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Phone line is not answered during the lunch hour of 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. However, sessions can be scheduled during the lunch hour or until 6:00 p.m. upon request. Phone: 512-471-3366 E-mail: eap@austin.utexas.edu Learn more about Counseling & Consultations Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Employee Assistance Program (EAP) UTA Building, room 2.304 1616 Guadalupe, Austin, TX 78701 Hours: Monday-Friday 8 a.m. to 5 pm. Phone line is not answered during the lunch hour of 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. However, sessions can be scheduled during the lunch hour or until 6:00 p.m. upon request. Phone: 512-471-3366 Fax: 512-475-8558 E-mail: eap@austin.utexas.edu Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Facebook Twitter UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022