Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Human Resources Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Human Resources Search Search GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Search Search Current Employee Expand Applying for University Vacancies Career Management Compensation Compliance Conflict Management Coronavirus Resources Dealing with Workplace Changes or Job Transitions Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Employee Information System Employee Services Flexible Work Arrangements Forms Insurance Learning & Development New Employees Occupational Health Program Retirement Checklist Retirement Programs Staff Awards Sporadic Employment Time Off UTemps Furlough Program FAQs Prospective Employee Expand About Austin Applying Benefits Compensation Learning & Development Temporary Employment Retired Employee Expand Checklist Employment After Retirement Forms for Retired Employees Insurance Part-Time Work Support & Services Student Employee Expand Academic Employment Celebrate Student Employees Compensation Eligibility to Work Employee Insurance & Benefits Employment Resources Finding a Student Job Forms for Student Employees Learning & Development Managing Student Employees New Student Employee Checklist Non-Academic Employment Orientation & Training Student Employee Excellence & Development (SEED) Student Employment Questions and Answers Supervisor’s Checklist for Hiring a New Student Employee Manager & HR Pro Expand Compensation Coronavirus Resources Departmental Compliance Flexible Work Arrangements Forms for Managers Hiring and Separation HR Spectrum I-9 and E-Verify Resources Learning & Development Management Tools Organization Effectiveness Performance Management Timekeeping Training for HR Professionals Workers Compensation Insurance (for Managers) About Expand HR Partnerships Organizational Chart Our Organization Staff Directory Contact Expand Directions Find Your HR Representative Need Help? GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Home Prospective Employee : Benefits Benefits The university provides a competitive benefits package that includes insurance and retirement benefits in addition to other programs and services. Benefits are available to eligible employees who are appointed for at least 50% time. Some benefits may also be available to eligible employees appointed for less than 50% time, as well as temporary employees and student employees. Insurance If you're appointed to work in an eligible position for 20 hours or more a week for at least 4.5 months, you can participate in the university's insurance plans and add eligible dependents to your coverage. The below table outlines the insurance coverage available to employees. Please note that the basic coverage package is 100% employer paid for full-time and eligible-graduate-student employees, and 50% employer paid for part-time employees. Optional medical insurance for employees' dependents is up to 50% employer paid for full-time employees and eligible-graduate-student employees, and up to 25% employer paid for part-time employees. Insurance Coverage Available to Employees Basic Coverage: UTSelect PPO medical plan with prescription drug coverage $40,000 basic term life insurance (employee only) $40,000 basic accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) insurance (employee only) Optional Coverage: Dental Vision Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Voluntary Group Term Life (VGTL) Voluntary Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D) Long/Short-Term Disability Insurance (STD/LTD) Resources Benefits Cost Worksheet (EID required) My UT Benefits (EID required) Health Insurance Premium Charts Evidence of Eligibility (EOE) Evidence of Insurability (EOI) UT Benefits Plan Administrators (includes group numbers and vendor contact info) Paid Vacation Time Off You can earn paid vacation time off if appointed to work at least 20 hours per week for at least 4.5 continuous months. If you're a student in a position that requires student status, you don't earn vacation time off. You'll begin earning paid time off on your first day of employment, and on the first day of every month after that. The amount you earn is based on how many months you've been in state service. See the Time Off Accrual Chart to get an idea of the amount of time off you would accrue each month. Paid Holiday Time Off You earn paid holiday time off if appointed to work at least 20 hours per week for at least 4.5 continuous months. Faculty must be appointed for at least 50% time for at least 4.5 continuous months. If you're appointed less than full time, you'll be granted paid holiday time off based on the percentage of hours you're appointed. If you're a student in a position that requires student status, you do not earn paid holiday time off. Holiday Schedule Paid Sick Time Off You can receive paid sick time off if appointed to work at least 20 hours per week for at least 4.5 months. Student in positions where student status is a requirement do not earn paid sick time off. Eligible employee earn paid sick time off on the first day of employment and on the first day of every month after. If you work full time, you earn eight hours of paid sick time off for each month or fraction of a month. If you work part time, you earn sick time off in proportion to your appointment. The amount of sick time off is determined by your employment status on the first day of each month. Retirement Programs All benefits eligible employees are required to contribute to one of two mandatory retirement programs. Students in a position that requires student status, do not contribute to the mandatory retirement programs. The Teacher Retirement System of Texas (TRS) is the default mandatory retirement program, whereas the Optional Retirement Program (ORP) is only available to certain employees in specific job codes. Employees that are eligible for the ORP are notified by Benefits and Leave Management via DocuSign. The university also offers two voluntary retirement programs. The UTSaver TSA 403(b) and DCP 457(b). All employee are eligible to participate in the voluntary retirement programs. Other Campus Services and Resources The university also offers a wide variety of services to faculty and staff, including additional perks that range from wellness programs to professional development opportunities. Please note that not all benefits offered to university faculty and staff are centrally administered by Human Resources. Quick Links Get a UT EID Job Search Contact Info Human Resource Service Center (HRSC) Phone: 512-471-4772 (HRSC) Prospective Employee About Austin Applying Benefits Compensation Learning & Development Temporary Employment Human Resources Human Resource Service Center 1616 Guadalupe St., Suite 1.408 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-471-4772 (HRSC) Phone (Toll Free): 800-687-4178 Fax: 512-232-3524 Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Website Comment Form Facebook Google Translate/En Español Need Help? Find Your HR Representative HR Staff Directory Human Resource Service Center Workday UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022