Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Human Resources Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Human Resources Search Search GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Search Search Current Employee Expand Applying for University Vacancies Career Management Compensation Compliance Conflict Management Coronavirus Resources Dealing with Workplace Changes or Job Transitions Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Employee Information System Employee Services Flexible Work Arrangements Forms Insurance Learning & Development New Employees Occupational Health Program Retirement Checklist Retirement Programs Staff Awards Sporadic Employment Time Off UTemps Furlough Program FAQs Prospective Employee Expand About Austin Applying Benefits Compensation Learning & Development Temporary Employment Retired Employee Expand Checklist Employment After Retirement Forms for Retired Employees Insurance Part-Time Work Support & Services Student Employee Expand Academic Employment Celebrate Student Employees Compensation Eligibility to Work Employee Insurance & Benefits Employment Resources Finding a Student Job Forms for Student Employees Learning & Development Managing Student Employees New Student Employee Checklist Non-Academic Employment Orientation & Training Student Employee Excellence & Development (SEED) Student Employment Questions and Answers Supervisor’s Checklist for Hiring a New Student Employee Manager & HR Pro Expand Compensation Coronavirus Resources Departmental Compliance Flexible Work Arrangements Forms for Managers Hiring and Separation HR Spectrum I-9 and E-Verify Resources Learning & Development Management Tools Organization Effectiveness Performance Management Timekeeping Training for HR Professionals Workers Compensation Insurance (for Managers) About Expand HR Partnerships Organizational Chart Our Organization Staff Directory Contact Expand Directions Find Your HR Representative Need Help? GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Home Student Employee : Finding a Student Job Finding a Student Job The University of Texas at Austin employs over 10,000 students in a wide variety of student jobs each semester. This page provides some suggestions for finding a student job with the university. Student Non-Academic Jobs HireUTexas is a great resource for students seeking part-time employment as both federal Work-Study and non-Work-Study non-academic job opportunities are posted on the job board. Additionally, student positions are also posted on department websites, advertised via e-mail or social media. As a result, it's recommended that interested students inquire directly with a department about available job opportunities or upcoming job fairs. Here are the employment websites of some of the largest employers of students on campus: Recreational Sports University Housing and Dining University Unions Intercollegiate Athletics University Libraries Parking and Transportation Services Student Academic Jobs Graduate students seeking an academic position should be in contact with their graduate advisor or graduate coordinator. More information about graduate student academic employment is available from the Graduate School. Undergraduate students interested an academic position should inquire directly with a department about available job opportunities or upcoming job fairs. The College of Natural Sciences and the Sanger Learning Center are two large employers of undergraduates in academic jobs. The Office of Undergraduate Research also provides valuable resources for students interested in research opportunities, including Eureka, a searchable database. Job opportunities in student academic positions may be listed in the HireUTexas. Additional Resources Here are some additional resources to help you locate employment opportunities with the university. RecruitUT – Job boards for career, job, and internship positions Applying for Employment - Full and part-time Staff and Faculty jobs UTemps - Temporary jobs at UT Graduate Student Campus Jobs Listserv Eligibility Requirements for University Employees In addition to specific eligibility requirements for student positions, the following requirements apply to all employees of The University of Texas at Austin. Criminal History Background Check It is the policy of The University of Texas at Austin to conduct a criminal background check including sex offender registry check on any applicant, internal or external, who is under final consideration for employment with the University. This applies to all full-time, part-time, regular, temporary or student positions. In addition, you will be required to provide in writing any criminal charges or convictions, including any requirement or possible requirement to register as a sex offender, which occurred after the date of your application. You would not be required to report misdemeanor offenses punishable only by a fine. If you fail to comply with this provision, may be disqualified from consideration for employment Once hired, University policy requires employees to report to their supervisor within five business days any criminal complaint, information, indictment, no contest plea, guilty plea, or criminal convictions, including registration as sex offender or requirement to register as a sex offender. Misdemeanor offenses punishable only by fine do not need to be reported. Employment Eligibility Verification If hired, you will be required to complete the federal Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification. You will be required to present acceptable, original documents to prove your identity and authorization to work. You must present acceptable, original documents no later than the third work day, or you will not be employed by the University. Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification List of Acceptable Documents E-Verify The University of Texas at Austin use E-Verify to check the work authorization of all new hires effective May 2015. The university’s company ID number for purposes of E-Verify is 287159. For more information about E-Verify, please see the following: E-Verify Poster (PDF) Right To Work Poster - English (PDF) Right To Work Poster - Spanish (PDF) Equal Opportunity Employer The University of Texas at Austin, as an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, complies with all applicable federal and state laws regarding nondiscrimination and affirmative action. The University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity for all persons and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, marital status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, religion, or veteran status in employment, educational programs and activities, and admissions. Pay Transparency The University of Texas at Austin will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against employees or applicants because they have inquired about, discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation information of other employees or applicants as a part of their essential job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have access to compensation information, unless the disclosure is (a) in response to a formal complaint or charge, (b) in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted by the University, or (c) consistent with the University’s legal duty to furnish information. Veteran Employment Preference The University of Texas at Austin supports veteran employment opportunities. For more information and assistance contact Steven Blackwell, Veteran Employment Liaison, (512) 475-6956 or email: steven.blackwell@austin.utexas.edu. Quick Links Graduate Student Employment HireUTexas Work Study and Other Financial Aid Contact Info Human Resource Service Center Need Help? HR Student Employment Consultant Student Employee Academic Employment Celebrate Student Employees President’s Student Employee of the Year Award Past Student Employee of the Year Recipients Compensation Eligibility to Work Employee Insurance & Benefits Employment Resources Finding a Student Job Forms for Student Employees Learning & Development Managing Student Employees New Student Employee Checklist Non-Academic Employment Orientation & Training Student Employee Excellence & Development (SEED) Student Employment Questions and Answers Supervisor’s Checklist for Hiring a New Student Employee Human Resources Human Resource Service Center 1616 Guadalupe St., Suite 1.408 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-471-4772 (HRSC) Phone (Toll Free): 800-687-4178 Fax: 512-232-3524 Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Website Comment Form Facebook Google Translate/En Español Need Help? Find Your HR Representative HR Staff Directory Human Resource Service Center Workday UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022