A-Z Index FORMS Contact Us ISC Academic HR washington.edu Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese - Simplified)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Enter search text: University of Washington Human Resources University of Washington Human Resources Home Jobs Why work at UW? Find a staff job Find an academic job Find a physician job Find a student job Final candidate guide to COVID-19 vaccination requirement Before you apply Diversity and inclusion Perks and benefits Temporary work UW recruiters & job fairs UW critical hiring needs Employee referral program Total Rewards Compensation Professional staff compensation Classified staff compensation Total compensation statements Benefits Health benefits Insurance benefits Retirement plans WorkLife Child care & parenting Community Discounts and perks Elder care Housing The Whole U UW CareLink Workplace giving Time Off, Leaves, and Holidays Leaves Holiday schedule Flexwork Workplace Essentials Employee Support Employee recognition Employee work performance Employment verification Complaint resolution Transgender resources Update personal information UW SafeCampus Workplace policies Career Development Professional development Online learning opportunities Career tools and services Tuition exemption Scholarships Manager Resources UWHIRES login Hiring process New employees Employee experience tools Performance management Succession planning Organizational development Leadership Café Workplace Supports Return to onsite work Child and family care during COVID-19 Diversity, equity, and inclusion Employee Emergency Fund HR Community of Practice Hybrid work Quick Links Workday My HR Tools Employment programs & contracts Employment programs at UW Position management Classified non-union information Labor union contracts Professional Staff Program Student employment Temporary employment program Upcoming changes to temporary employment program Additional position types Fixed duration positions Cyclic year positions Professional staff temporary positions Offices Office of the Vice President Benefits Compensation Disability Services Office HR Benefits, Analytics & Information Systems HR Operations Labor Relations Professional & Organizational Development Total Talent Management Menu Jobs Why work at UW? Find a staff job Find an academic job Find a physician job Find a student job Final candidate guide to COVID-19 vaccination requirement Before you apply Diversity and inclusion Perks and benefits Temporary work UW recruiters & job fairs UW critical hiring needs Employee referral program Total Rewards Compensation Professional staff compensation Classified staff compensation Total compensation statements Benefits Health benefits Insurance benefits Retirement plans WorkLife Child care & parenting Community Discounts and perks Elder care Housing The Whole U UW CareLink Workplace giving Time Off, Leaves, and Holidays Leaves Holiday schedule Flexwork Workplace Essentials Employee Support Employee recognition Employee work performance Employment verification Complaint resolution Transgender resources Update personal information UW SafeCampus Workplace policies Career Development Professional development Online learning opportunities Career tools and services Tuition exemption Scholarships Manager Resources UWHIRES login Hiring process New employees Employee experience tools Performance management Succession planning Organizational development Leadership Café Workplace Supports Return to onsite work Child and family care during COVID-19 Diversity, equity, and inclusion Employee Emergency Fund HR Community of Practice Hybrid work Quick Links Workday My HR Tools Employment programs & contracts Employment programs at UW Position management Classified non-union information Labor union contracts Professional Staff Program Student employment Temporary employment program Upcoming changes to temporary employment program Additional position types Fixed duration positions Cyclic year positions Professional staff temporary positions Offices Office of the Vice President Benefits Compensation Disability Services Office HR Benefits, Analytics & Information Systems HR Operations Labor Relations Professional & Organizational Development Total Talent Management More A-Z Index FORMS Contact Us ISC Academic HR washington.edu Enter search text: Benefits Benefits UW CareLink UW CareLink UW CareLink resources UW CareLink connects you with experts who help you or your family members navigate life’s challenges. You get free, confidential access to guidance consultants who provide: Counseling Legal advice Financial guidance Eldercare assistance Work-Life solutions Consultation for managers Critical and traumatic incident response services If you need help with any of these issues, don’t hesitate to reach out to Carelink: Call UW CareLink 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 866-598-3978 TDD 800-697-0353 UW CareLink website To sign in, under the register tab Enter UW for the organization code UW CareLink is the employee assistance program provided for PEBB benefits-eligible UW employees, their dependents, and other household members. Initial services are provided at no cost, and the call is toll-free. UW CareLink is available nationwide 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Featured resources UW CareLink wants to help you navigate current events. As new needs arise, we will post featured resources to this section of the webpage. If you are looking for something that isn’t posted here, please complete the feedback survey on the right-side panel of this page and let us know. Webinars Register for upcoming webinars or view our previously recorded webinars, by clicking below: Upcoming webinars Written resources Login to the GuidanceResources webpage (enter UW for the organization code if it’s your first time logging in) to access featured written resources about topics related to current events and monthly topics. Diversity and Inclusion – It’s important to embrace individual differences by recognizing everyone’s unique contribution to the organization. To encourage these contributions, it’s vital to show sensitivity to the cultural backgrounds, native languages and social practices of those around us. COVID-19 Resource page – find multi-language resources for challenges faced during the pandemic. Confidential counseling There are many issues, big or small, that you might want help with — stress, relationships or grief, among many others. Perhaps you feel stuck or that life’s overly complicated. Or, maybe you have a difficult decision to make. UW CareLink provides someone to talk to when life’s challenges arrive. Work with a guidance consultant to help you sort through your concerns to make your life easier. You receive five free in-person counseling sessions for each issue you work to solve. UW CareLink can match you with counselors who are the right fit for your situation and who have offices near your work or home. These sessions are confidential and are not recorded on your medical record. You don’t have to fill out insurance forms or make a copay; although if you want long-term counseling, UW CareLink helps arrange that through your health insurance. Get started by calling UW CareLink: 866-598-3978 (For TDD 800-697-0353). The program is staffed by experienced, caring clinicians who are available by phone or online 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Legal services It’s hard to know where to start when you need legal advice. Call UW CareLink — they will talk with you about your situation and schedule a phone appointment for you with one of their in-house attorneys. If you need immediate help, you can be connected to an attorney directly. If you need representation, a local attorney will be located and you will receive a 30-minute consultation; if you continue to work with the attorney after the advising session, you’ll get a 25 percent fee reduction. Examples of legal areas covered include: Family law matters, including divorce, custody, child support and adoption Real estate and foreclosure questions Wills and trusts Landlord/tenant issues, including eviction and lease questions Bankruptcy and credit issues Immigration concerns General legal advice Financial coaching Dealing with finances is often complicated, tedious and stressful. Make things easier on yourself with guidance from a financial coach. Call UW CareLink and they will talk with you about your specific situation and schedule a phone appointment for you with one of their in-house financial experts. Topics include: Budgeting, retirement and estate planning Financing for college Tax and real estate questions Credit care and debt management Investment options Mortgages, loans and refinancing Elder care assistance Get help making decisions about the care of an aging parent or chronically ill adult. UW CareLink connects you with an elder care professional who works to understand your situation and provide guidance. You’ll get assistance developing a personalized care approach and finding direct care services. Work-Life solutions UW CareLink specialists provide qualified referrals and resources for just about anything on your to-do list, such as: Hiring movers or home repair contractors Locating pet care Finding childcare Housing searches Sending a child off to school Resources for managers and teams UW CareLink offers several services that help managers effectively lead their teams. Traumatic workplace incident response UW CareLink provides a range of services for you and your team in the event of a traumatic workplace event, which could include: a coworker’s serious illness, death or suicide a threatening or violent work incident a man-made or natural disaster Contact your UWHR-Consultant to learn how UW CareLink can support your team through facilitated discussions and on-site consultations. Find your UWHR-Consultant’s contact information using our UWHR Directory. Management consultation UW CareLink helps you maintain a positive, productive work environment by providing coaching on how to handle difficult employee interactions. Call UW Carelink at 866-598-3978 for guidance on addressing behavioral concerns, talking to an employee about performance, or managing other workplace issues. Training and workshops Contact your UW Human Resources Consultant to inquire about UW Carelink’s one-hour training sessions. These training sessions can provide your team with an overview of topics, including: Emotional intelligence Conflict resolution Resiliency Work-life balance Communication Find your UWHR-Consultant’s contact information using our UWHR Directory. Request printed materials Contact the UWHR-Benefits office at totalben@uw.edu to request printed materials, including posters and brochures. Brochures are available in nine different languages. More languages are available upon request, please contact us to request a translation. Available languages include: Amharic Chinese English Indonesian Korean Malay Spanish Tagalog Tigrinya What to expect when you call When you call UW CareLink, you’ll speak with a multilingual master’s level or above guidance counselor who listens to you and assesses your needs. The guidance counselor first asks you basic demographic questions such as your name, job and work location. Your personal information is confidential and not shared with the University. The UW only sees aggregated data that helps program administrators understand how people use the UW CareLink service. The guidance counselor will answer your questions, and if needed, refer you to a counselor or other appropriate resources. If your situation is urgent, the counselor is trained to begin solving it immediately. Online resources The UW CareLink website is your go-to site for expert information and tools on the issues that matter most to you: relationships, work, school, parenting, wellness, legal, financial, free time and much more. Resources are available as articles, podcasts, videos, slideshows, on-demand training, online communities and chat, “Ask a Guidance Consultant™” personal responses to your questions. To sign in, under the register tab, enter UW for the organization code. You will then be asked to set up your personal login account. Contact Benefits 206-543-4444 totalben@uw.edu Office locations Report a problem or provide feedback about UW CareLink by using our confidential feedback survey Printed materials request form Departments can order UW CareLink materials by completing this form Benefits Insurance Health insurance Plan options Compare health plans Eligibility for insurance Options if ineligible Premium surcharges Tax reporting and your benefits – FAQ COBRA: Continue your insurance Graduate appointees Other insurance Discounts on auto, home, and renters insurance Life and AD&D Long-term disability WA Cares Fund Medical students: LTD insurance Physician Assistants students: LTD insurance Insurance during retirement Retirement plans UWRP PERS 2 PERS 3 TRS 3 LEOFF 2 Optional plans UW VIP Deferred compensation Managing your annual contributions and IRS limits Consultations and seminars Nearing retirement Insurance during retirement Prepare to retire from UW PERS 1: Preparing to retire PERS 2: Preparing to retire PERS 3: Preparing to retire TRS 1: Preparing to retire TRS 3: Preparing to retire LEOFF 2: Preparing to retire UWRP: Preparing to retire UWRP disability retirement VEBA account ID cards for retirees Return to work after retirement Plans closed to new members PERS 1 TRS 1 UWSRP Fund review committee for UW retirement plans UW CareLink More ways to save Join a credit union Housing and home loans Limited Purpose FSA Medical FSA: Tax savings for medical costs DCAP: Tax savings for child and elder care Waive a pretax deduction Loan Forgiveness Program Get financially fit Life events Beneficiary changes In the event of a death Self-pay: Continue your insurance What happens to your UW Benefits after big life changes? Orientation Benefit summary PDFs In-person orientation Online orientation Plan administrators Nearing retirement University of Washington Accessibility Jobs SafeCampus Privacy Translation disclaimer Terms Employment verification Workplace posters © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA