Housing and Real Estate Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Undergraduate Housing My Housing Main Menu Menu Undergraduate Housing Submenu My Housing Incoming Students Submenu About Residential Colleges Your Dorm Room Dining and Meal Plans Navigating Campus Tech Resources Transfer Students Current Students Submenu Room and Meal Plan Changes Room and Meal Plans Your Housing and Dining Contract Room Draw Guide Seasonal and Temporary Housing Inclusive Housing Medical Accommodation Explore Submenu Residential Colleges Upperclass Housing Move In & Move Out Submenu Move In Move Out Housing Resources Submenu Housing Support Dorm Services Campus Services Navigating Campus Campus Safety Graduate Housing Submenu My Housing Incoming Graduate Students Submenu Apply for Housing General Information What to Bring Tech Resources Dining and Meal Plans Dorm & Annex Services Navigating Campus Princeton and Nearby Current Graduate Students Submenu Apply for Housing Your Housing Contract Room Draw Guide Room and Meal Plans Summer Housing Inclusive Housing Forms Explore Submenu On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Move In & Move Out Submenu Move In Move Out Housing Resources Submenu Campus Services Housing Support Dorm & Annex Services Apartment Services Navigating Campus Campus Safety Faculty & Staff Housing Submenu My Housing Explore Submenu University Rentals University Rentals Eligibility Olden House-Short term furnished apts Off-Campus Housing Home Ownership Programs Apply Submenu Rental Eligibility and Application Rental Rates Sublet Eligibility and Guidelines Resident Services Submenu Maintenance for your Rental Lockout and Key Replacement Utilities Campus Services and Resources Policies and Regulations Merwick Stanworth Resident Move In & Move Out Submenu Move In Move Out Around Princeton Submenu The University Community Princeton and Nearby Contacts Policies SubMenu Fire Safety Request Service Search Search Home Undergraduate Student Housing Current Students Medical Accommodation Description The Housing Accommodations process (formerly termed “Special Needs Housing process”) is administered jointly by Student Housing and the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students (ODUS). This process is intended to provide special consideration in housing for students with medical conditions and disabilities. This process is not intended to address requests pertaining to religious preferences, or the residential dining and residency requirement for first-year and sophomore students. In order to be considered for a housing accommodation, students MUST submit all requests with supporting medical documentation by the respective deadlines: Matriculating First-Year Students: Summer, 2022 through the Office of Disability Services. Housing Accommodations Application: Applications Due Friday, February 4, 2022, at 11:59 p.m. Regular Room Draw for rising Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors: Due to the schedule changes made necessary by the pandemic, fall 2022 room draw timelines will be announced during Winter-session. Summer: TBD through the Interim / Summer Housing site. While applications for housing changes based on unanticipated medical needs will be considered after these deadlines, any changes are subject to availability of appropriate housing. Students are not obligated to accept the Housing Accommodations assignment offered. If a request does not meet the criteria for a Housing Accommodation based on documented need, students will be referred to housing for a room change You are not obligated to accept a medical accommodation room assignment. Accordion Guidelines for Housing Accommodations ODUS and Housing are committed to the fairness of the housing accommodations process, and adhere to several principles and guidelines in making placements. Rooms larger than a two-room double will not be made available during the housing accommodations process. Please note that per Rights, Rules, Responsibilities, students “are expected to be honest and straightforward in their official dealings with University processes, activities, and personnel.” Any student found providing inaccurate or misleading information to gain an advantage in on-campus housing will face disciplinary action. Common Housing Requests The following list contains the most common housing requests, and how they are typically handled. This list is not exhaustive. Actual assignments may vary based upon the availability of appropriate housing, as well as the documented need: ASTHMA / ENVIRONMENTAL ALLERGIES AND FOOD ALLERGIES: Specific Assignments: Students with asthma or other respiratory conditions and environmental allergies typically have their needs met by being in uncarpeted, lower occupancy rooms in recently-renovated or new construction. The needs of students with food allergies are typically supported through Campus Dining’s residential dining program, rather than housing requests. Private Kitchens: Due to limited numbers of private or limited-access kitchens on campus, access to these spaces cannot be guaranteed. The needs of students with food allergies are typically supported through Campus Dining’s residential dining program rather than housing requests. Air Conditioning: Students requesting air conditioning should be aware that dormitory regulations do not permit students to bring or install their own units. A/C is not guaranteed in undergraduate dormitories, as our facilities and infrastructure limit the ability to provide it to all students. Medical authorities have determined that air conditioners do not have any advantages in reducing air borne allergens over HEPA filters. However, based upon a student’s specific diagnosis, ODUS, in consultation with University Health Services (UHS), will evaluate possible accommodations for a student’s medical condition. Please visit the Air Conditioning Alternatives page for additional information. OTHER MEDICAL OR PSYCHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS: Private or Semi-private Bathrooms: Due to limited numbers of private or semi-private bathrooms on campus, the assignment of rooms with these features cannot be guaranteed. Single Rooms: Princeton University makes available many spaces (libraries, study rooms, and resources such as the Accessibility Center for quiet, reduced distraction, or private study. Requests for single rooms due to a learning disability are not typically supported through housing requests. Students who feel that they may have a learning disability are encouraged, but not required, to contact the Office of Disability Services. ods@princeton.edu Additional policies and procedures regarding accommodations can be found on the Inclusive Princeton website. Air Conditioner Alternatives Keep windows closed overnight, early mornings, and on windy days. University administrators have identified a product that does not require electricity, and has a good track record of reducing pollen and other allergens from entering through an open window: Adjustable Window Screen In addition to changing the filter on your HEPA filter regularly, consider using a washable microfiber duster at least once a week on all surfaces: Microfiber Hand Duster In addition to windows, pollen and other allergens are carried into indoor spaces by people, primarily on clothing and in hair. This is why pillows can become vectors of allergens unless you use a dust cover and wash pillow cases frequently. It is a good idea to talk with any roommates to make sure they are aware of your needs and can also exercise care in taking measures to minimize carrying pollen into the room. For example, if you or your roommate goes for a run outside, then rests in your room for a bit before showering, you are likely to deposit outdoor pollen and dust indoors. Going directly to shower after spending a lot of time outdoors is recommended. As a cooling solution that is compliant with our electrical code, we have found this portable cooler to be helpful: Portable Air Cooler It is always a good idea to double check with housing to make sure that any fans, dehumidifiers, or other air cleaning equipment is compliant with dormitory regulations: Policies Related links Medical Accommodation Application Service and Assistance Animals policy Footer Housing and Real Estate Services 330 Alexander Street Princeton, NJ 08540 Student Housing: (609) 258-3460 Faculty & Staff Housing: (609) 258-2700 Quick Links Campus Dining Contacts Princeton University Housing support due to disability If you require assistance or support with a housing process due to a disability please contact the relevant office within Housing and Real Estate Services at the phone numbers indicated above or via email students: askhousing@princeton.edu, faculty/staff: fshsg@princeton.edu. Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University