Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Living On Campus Apply for Housing Apply for Summer Housing AAA Apply for Summer Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Housing is available for UM students who want to live on campus during the summer months on a space-available basis, with priority given to current on-campus residents and international students. Students must apply for summer housing by May 1 via the On-Campus Housing Portal accessed from CaneLink for Student by selecting the “Housing and Dining” dropdown from the menu. A $500 prepayment is required for each session, and students who do not sign up by May 1 will also be charged a $100 late application fee. View Summer Housing Rates Summer 2022 Information Open All Tabs Summer Move Over Process Spring to summer move-over will take place Sunday, May 15 from 12 p.m.to 4 p.m. at the Lakeside Village reception desk. During this time, Summer C students must visit the reception desk to check into their summer 2022 assignment. Once checked in, students must be prepared to fully vacate their spring 2022 assignment within this timeframe. The Lakeside Village reception desk will be open on Sunday, May 15 from 12-4 p.m. to assist in the transition between the spring and summer terms. ‘CaneCard Encoding Before Friday, May 13 at noon, spring 2022 students living in Hecht, Stanford, Eaton, Mahoney or Pearson Residential Colleges need to visit their area reception desk to have their ‘CaneCard encoded so their spring 2022 room access will remain. If students do not encode ‘CaneCard by this time, they will lose access to their room. Students living in University Village or Lakeside Village will not need to complete this process. Remaining in Spring Assignment If students are staying in their same space for summer 2022 and new students will be moving into an unoccupied bedspace or bedroom, students must remove all personal items from the common area, other bed spaces (side of the room), and bathroom so our facilities and cleaning staff can prepare for the new student arrival. Students should respect the space once it has been cleaned. Please do not move back items until new roommate(s)/suitemate(s) move into the space. This cleaning may take place without advanced notice given our short timeframe to turn over spaces, so students must be ready. Access to Spring and Summer Assignment The Lakeside Village reception desk will be open on Sunday, May 15 from 12-4 p.m. to assist in the transition between the spring and summer terms. When at Lakeside Village reception desk, a temporary access card will be provided to students which contains access to their spring 2022 housing assignment with an expiration time of 4 p.m. No extensions will be provided as we must begin cleaning and preparing spring 2022 spaces for summer use. Once the student has checked into their summer 2022 assignment, students must complete the steps in the “How to Leave Your Room” section of the closing website to complete their move-over and fully check out of their spring 2022 assignment. The temporary access card will expire Sunday, May 15 at 4 p.m. and must be returned to the Lakeside Village reception desk before that time. Failure to return temporary access cards to the reception desk will result in additional charges. Summer 2022 Dates Housing will only be available for the Summer C session from May 14 through August 6 in Lakeside Village. All summer dates, including intersession dates, are subject to change Summer 2022 Intersession Summer housing officially closes on August 6, and Fall 2022 housing for continuing students opens on Thursday, August 18. If you are planning to live in on-campus housing for the intersession period of August 6 through 18, an intersession housing application will become available later in the summer. There will be a $350 charge for the summer-to-fall intersession period if your application is approved. Students must be residing in Summer C housing and have a valid Fall 2022 assignment to be eligible for intersession housing. Those signed up for intersession housing will receive more information about the Summer to Fall move-over date and time when available. All student-athletes in Summer housing must reach out to the Athletics Compliance Office to determine if they are eligible for intersession housing of if their last day in summer housing is August 6. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices