Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Applying for Housing What to Expect Residential Communities Guide to Living On Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Living On Campus Closing Information AAA Spring 2022 Closing Information Housing closes at noon on Saturday, May 14, 2022. All residents must fully vacate their room/suite/apartment by this time, and no late departures for Spring 2022 will be granted. Only students who have signed up and been approved to live on campus as part of Summer Housing are granted to remain in their assignment past this time. Mail and Packages Open All Tabs Hecht, Stanford, Mahoney, Pearson, Eaton, and Lakeside Village: Students must retrieve all mail and packages from The UPS Store prior to leaving campus. The UPS Store will stop receiving packages for Spring 2022 upon your check out from campus housing and no later than Saturday, May 14, 2022. Update your mailing address for any subscriptions or scheduled deliveries. Throughout the summer, The UPS Store will only accept mail/packages for residents with a summer assignment. Mail and packages delivered to The UPS Store for non-summer residents (even those with a Fall 2022 assignment) will be returned to sender. The UPS Store will begin accepting mail and packages for Fall 2022 students during the first week of August. Further information about mail and packages will be released over the course of the summer, including a specific date for Fall 2022 mail and packages to begin arriving. University Village Students must retrieve all mail and packages from the University Village front desk/mailroom prior to leaving campus. Please empty your mailbox and confirm with the UV front desk that you do not have any packages to be picked up. Update your mailing address for any subscriptions or scheduled deliveries. Any mail or packages received for students not living in summer housing will be returned to sender. Preferred Summer Storage at The UPS Store HRL does not provide storage for student belongings, but there are multiple local options available for students who would like to store personal items off campus. The UPS Store at Lakeside Village is Housing and Residential Life’s preferred summer storage vendor. Stop by the store to speak with a staff member or review their summer storage options. Once ready, bring a completed Summer Storage Agreement form to the store. How to Leave Your Room Before Leaving Your Room You can sign out a cart at the reception desk for up to two hours. Close all blinds, turn off lights, and leave the air conditioning on low (or 72° where applicable) Roll up rugs/carpets and leave in the center of the room; do not place in trash chutes, hallways, or trash rooms. Bag all trash and leave it in the center of the room or take it to a dumpster; do not leave trash or large items beside trashcans, in hallways, or lounges; trash bags will be available at the front desk for your use. Clean your individual room and/or bathroom, including shared spaces within suites and apartments; all residents in an apartment- or suite-style housing are responsible for the cleanliness of the shared spaces, no matter who checks out first, last, etc. With the exception of University-provided appliances in kitchens, unplug and remove all appliances; empty and defrost mini-refrigerators at least one day in advance All University-owned furniture must be present during check out or you will be charged for replacement Close and secure your door. After Leaving Your Room Return any temporary access cards to the area reception desk Check out once all items have been removed by using the contactless Express Checkout process via the On-Campus Housing Portal in CaneLink; you can also check out via your area's reception desk. Click here to view a guide on how to find your “Express Checkout” QR Code in the portal. External Vendors Third party vendors can assist when moving, however the resident of the room must be present at all times while the vendor is in the building. Access will not be provided by HRL staff to these vendors. These vendors must follow all parking guidelines/regulations on campus. Penalties and Fines Penalties will be enforced if students do not vacate their respective residential college or apartment area by the designated times. Some common fines are: Failure to clean room/apartment: $100 Improper or late check out fine: $100 Failure to rollup area rug/carpet or bag trash: $100 Missing or damaged smoke detectors: $75 Missing trash or recycling bin: $25 each Late cart return fee: $25 Missing cart fee: $300 (imposed after 24 hours) For a complete listing of fines and charges, view the last page of the Policies and Procedures manual. Third party vendors can assist when moving, however the resident of the room must be present at all times while the vendor is in the building. Access will not be provided by HRL staff to these vendors and these vendors must follow all parking guidelines/regulations on campus. Donate Unwanted Items to Goodwill Goodwill Industries South Florida will place donation collection trailers outside of each residential area from Friday, April 29 through Tuesday, May 17. Residents should not leave items at the drop-off locations outside of this timeframe. Learn about other ways to Green Your Move-Out from Green U. Summer 2022 Housing Housing is available for UM students who want to live on campus during the summer months on a space-available basis, with priority given to current on-campus residents and international students. The application will be available in the Housing Portal via CaneLink in early April. More details can be found on our website. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices