Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Living On Campus Residential Communities Stanford Residential College AAA Stanford Residential College Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Many Stanford resident students form close bonds with their fellow residents through living together and participating in engagement opportunities led by their RA or the building staff. The gliders that line the bridge connecting Hecht and Stanford Residential Colleges are a favorite spot for residents to study or meet up with friends. Stanford Residential College was originally called the 960 Complex because it could hold a maximum of 960 residents when it opened in 1969. In 1985, it became the second hall converted to a Residential College and was called The Residential College. Later, it was renamed Henry King Stanford Residential College after former President Emeritus Dr. Henry King Stanford. Stanford Residential College is composed of two co-ed 12 story towers, Rosborough Tower and Walsh Tower, and floors are assigned to one gender. The towers are connected by a common area on the first floor where the front desk, residential faculty apartments, a classroom, study room, vending machines, and laundry facilities are located. Building Information Physical Address: 1239 Dickinson Drive, Coral Gables, FL 33146 For sending receiving mail and packages, please review mail and package information in the Guide to Living on Campus Phone: 305-284-2555 Capacity: 856 students Room Type: Double Rooms & Small Singles Amenities Bathroom Each floor has one common central bathroom facility. Laundry Community laundry room located on the first floor. All laundry is free for residents. Study Areas Study lounges located on each residential floor. Computer Lab A computer lab, outfitted with desktop computers and UPrint printers, is located on the first floor. Dining Hall Stanford residents share a dining hall with the residents of Hecht Residential College. Cable Resident students have access to HD cable via Philo WiFi Campus WiFi access is available throughout the entire building Secure Entry Residents must swipe their 'Cane Cards to have access to residential spaces Vending Machines Vending and ice machines are located on the first floor HOUSING RATES Room Layouts Shared Double Small Single Room Dimensions (L x W x H) 18’6” x 10’2” x 8’5” What's Included Twin XL bed* Desk Closet Dresser Recycle bin & trash container Mirror Towel Rack Room Dimensions Bolster 7” from bed to top of bolster Closet (x2) 5’2” x 7’1” x 1’8” (5.7’ H to shelf, 1’5” shelf to ceiling) Desk 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’8” (2’5” leg space, 3 shelves) Desk Chair 1’7” x 1’8” x 2’8” Dresser 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’8” (4 drawers) Mattress (Twin XL) 80” x 36” (11” off ground) Window 5’11” x 3’ (1’9” from ground to bottom of window) With the exception of the beds and desk chairs, all furniture is built in. *The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Bed risers are allowed. Room Dimensions (L x W x H) 10' x 12' x 8’5” What's Included Twin XL bed* Desk Closet Dresser Recycle bin & trash container Mirror Towel Rack Room Dimensions Bolster 7” from bed to top of bolster Closet 5’2” x 2’7” (2 shelves 1’4” apart) Desk 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’8” (2’5” leg space, 3 shelves) Desk Chair 1’7” x 1’8” x 2’8” Dresser 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’8” (4 drawers) Mattress (Twin XL) 80” x 36” (11” off ground) Window (x2) 2’1” x 5’6” With the exception of the beds and desk chairs, all furniture is built in. *The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Bed risers are allowed. Staff & Faculty Open All Tabs Tyler Rodibaugh, Area Director trodibaugh@miami.edu 305-284-4505 Aylin Gonzalez, Assistant Area Director aylingonzalez@miami.edu 305-284-2555 Dr. Leslie D. Knecht, Senior Residential Faculty Dr. Leslie Knecht is a Senior Residential Faculty in Stanford Residential College and a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Chemistry. She grew up on a tobacco farm up a holler in rural Southeastern Kentucky and was a first-generation college student. Her research interests focus on bioanalytical chemistry. Her husband, Marc Knecht, is a faculty member in the Department of Chemistry. They enjoy taking their two sons and dog Proton on many adventures. lknecht@miami.edu 305-284-2594 Dr. Marc Knecht, Senior Residential Faculty Dr. Marc Knecht is a professor of chemistry in the College of Arts & Sciences. He was born and raised in a small town outside PIttsburgh, PA and is a first-generation college students. He completed his BS degree in Chemistry from Duquesne University and received his Ph.D. in chemistry from Vanderbilt. His research is focused on the use of bio-based methods to make functional materials. When he's not researching in the lab, he enjoys spending time with his wife, Leslie Knecht, their two boys, and their dog Proton. knecht@miami.edu Dr. Melvin L. Butler, Associate Residential Faculty Dr. Melvin L. Butler is an associate professor of musicology in the Frost School of Music. A native of Kansas City, he earned his PhD from New York University and a bachelor's degree from Berklee College of Music. Along with his scholarly work on Caribbean and African American music and culture, he has recorded and toured extensively as a jazz saxophonist. He moved to Miami in 2016 with his wife, Lori, and their son, Stanley. mlb267@miami.edu 305-284-2241 Michael Stokes, Senior Advisor for Residential Colleges m.stokes1@miami.edu 305-284-8794 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices