Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Living On Campus Residential Communities Hecht Residential College AAA Hecht Residential College Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Many Hecht resident students form close bonds with their fellow residents through living together and participating in engagement opportunities led by their RA or the building staff. The gliders that line the bridge connecting Hecht and Stanford Residential Colleges are a favorite spot for residents to study or meet up with friends. Hecht Residential College is a vibrant and energetic community located on the south side of Lake Osceola in between the Herbert Wellness Center and the School of Architecture. Opening its doors in 1968, Hecht was originally called the 1968 Complex. In 1984, it was the first residence hall to be converted to a Residential College. As the first Residential College, Hecht was designated as the Honors College and was where most of the honors students were housed. Later, in 1986, it was re-dedicated and named Florence Ruth Hecht Residential College after the generous benefactor. Hecht Residential College is composed of two co-ed 12 story towers (McDonald Tower and Pentland Tower), and floors are assigned to one gender. The towers are connected by a common area on the first floor where the front desk, residential faculty apartments, a classroom, study room, vending machines, and laundry facilities are located. Building Information Address: 1231 Dickinson Drive, Coral Gables, FL 33146 For sending receiving mail and packages, please review mail and package information in the Guide to Living on Campus Phone: 305-284-2188 Capacity: 856 students Room Type: Double Rooms & Small Singles Amenities Bathroom Each floor has one common central bathroom facility. Laundry Community laundry room located on the first floor. All laundry is free for residents. Study Areas Study lounges located on each residential floor. Computer Lab A computer lab, outfitted with desktop computers and UPrint printers, is located on the first floor. Dining Hall Hecht residents share a dining hall with the residents of Stanford Residential College. Cable Resident students have access to HD cable via Philo WiFi Campus WiFi access is available throughout the entire building Secure Entry Residents must swipe their 'Cane Cards to have access to residential spaces Vending Machines Vending and ice machines are located on the first floor HOUSING RATES Room Layouts Shared Double Small Single Room Dimensions (L x W x H) 18’6” x 10’2” x 8’5” What's Included Twin XL bed* Desk Closet Dresser Recycle bin & trash container Mirror Towel Rack Room Dimensions Bolster 7” from bed to top of bolster Closet (x2) 5’2” x 7’1” x 1’8” (5.7’ H to shelf, 1’5” shelf to ceiling) Desk 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’8” (2’5” leg space, 3 shelves) Desk Chair 1’7” x 1’8” x 2’8” Dresser 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’8” (4 drawers) Mattress (Twin XL) 80” x 36” (11” off ground) Window 5’11” x 3’ (1’9” from ground to bottom of window) With the exception of the beds and desk chairs, all furniture is built-in. *The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Bed risers are allowed. Room Dimensions (L x W x H) 10' x 12' x 8’5” What's Included Twin XL bed* Desk Closet Dresser Recycle bin & trash container Mirror Towel Rack Room Dimensions Bedloft* (Height Underneath) 4’7” under bed x 3’8” deep Bolster 7” from bed to top of bolster Closet 5’2” x 2’7” (2 shelves 1’4” apart) Desk 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’8” (2’5” leg space, 3 shelves) Desk Chair 1’7” x 1’8” x 2’8” Dresser 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’8” (4 drawers) Mattress (Twin XL) 80” x 36” (11” off ground) Window (x2) 2’1” x 5’6” With the exception of the beds and desk chairs, all furniture is built-in. *The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Bed risers are allowed. Staff & Faculty Open All Tabs Matt McCabe, Area Director m.mccabe@miami.edu 305-284-2761 Dr. Brian Arwari, Senior Residential Faculty Dr. Brian Arwari is an Associate Clinical Professor and Associate Chair of the Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences. He teaches mainly Sport Psychology and his research interests are centered around the relationship between exercise and cognition. He and his wife, Chiara, are from Italy. Dr. Arwari is the associate residential Faculty in Hecht Residential College. He lives here with his wife, their 4-year-old Leonardo, their 1-year-old Luca, and their very friendly dog Maya. b.arwari@miami.edu 305-284-3024 Karoline Mortensen, Associate Residential Faculty Dr. Karoline Mortensen is an associate professor in the Department of Health Management and Policy at the Miami Herbert Business School. Her research focuses on health care access and utilization, particularly for vulnerable populations. She lives with her 17-year-old daughter (Sofie) and 15-year-old son (Adeler), and two dogs, Sara and Henry. kxm648@miami.edu Kimberly McGrath Moreira, Faculty Fellow Kimberly McGrath Moreira, a Senior Lecturer in the English Composition Program, combines student-centered learning with community engagement (special emphasis on social justice and work with the non-profit Exchange for Change). Her varied educational experiences—from attending school in Nigeria, South Africa, and Singapore to teaching in Japan, Hong Kong and the US—inform her passion and research interest in experiential education and collaboration with diverse communities. She, her husband Alex, daughter Gabriela, and dog Scooby welcome “U”! kmcgrath@miami.edu Michael Stokes, Senior Advisor for Residential Colleges m.stokes1@maimi.edu 305-284-8794 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices