Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Housing and COVID-19 Summer Intern Housing Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Housing and COVID-19 AAA HRL and COVID-19 Housing and Residential Life is committed to providing a safe living environment. As the global pandemic continues to evolve, we will make necessary updates to the information provided below. The University's COVID-19 Response Our Commitment to Cleanliness Working with the Facilities and Operations Planning team, we have established best practices for cleaning our spaces. Our increased cleaning efforts include: Hand sanitizer stations are located at all building entrances, elevator lobbies, offices, and desk entrances. Cleaning staff uses CDC-directed cleaning methods and EPA-registered disinfectants to wipe surfaces and clean high-traffic areas. Plexiglass panels are placed at all reception desks and security posts. All lobby and communal bathrooms are equipped with hands-free devices such as faucets, soap dispensers, and paper towel dispensers. Additionally, our staff is trained to provide the best experience possible throughout this evolving situation. We are here to provide you with assistance while maintaining safe practices. Dining Services UM Dining provides safe dining options to residents. The dining halls are located outside of Stanford Residential College and Mahoney and Pearson Residential Colleges. Help Us Slow the Spread As resident students, there are a number of expectations while living on campus. We have put together a guide to help roommates maintain a clean and safe living environment and students can report concerns about unsafe behaviors of others to 'Canes Care for 'Canes. The University strongly encourages all students to be immunized against COVID-19. If you have not yet been vaccinated, please visit vaccinefinder.org to find a vaccination location near you. Masks are not required on the Coral Gables Campus. Individuals who wish to wear a mask for their protection are encouraged to do so, and that decision should be respected by all members of our community. The front doors of residential area lobbies are locked 24/7 and require a valid 'Cane Card to access. Students who host or attend any on-campus gatherings that exceed occupancy and/or violate guest policies will face disciplinary action and be subject to a housing contract review, even on the first offense. Residents are expected to regularly clean and sanitize their living spaces with their own cleaning supplies. Any courier service (Postmates, Uber Eats, Instacart, flower delivery, etc.) must meet the resident outside of the buildings. The University reserves the right to notify parents or families without a student’s prior consent in health or safety emergencies. If you are found in violation of these policies, your ability to continue to live in housing will be reviewed and your parent/guardian will be notified of the outcome of that review. Summer 2022 Testing Students experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 must be tested at Student Health Service. Appointments are required and are available Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., and Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. To schedule an appointment, sign in at MyUHealthChart.com and select the “Visits” button on the top of the screen. Isolation and Quarantine Quarantine is used to keep someone who might have been exposed to COVID-19 away from others. Isolation is used to separate people infected with COVID-19 from people who are not infected. For clinical assistance, please follow the instructions on the Student Health Service website. A summary of our approach to quarantine and isolation is outlined below. University health officials may adjust these guidelines as needed based on a student’s individual circumstance and the availability of off-campus isolation spaces. Open All Tabs Quarantine or Isolation On Campus Students who test positive may be directed to complete their quarantine/isolation in their current University housing assignment. For students who prefer not to share a bedroom with a roommate who has tested positive for COVID-19, the University encourages these students to temporarily reside off campus with friends or family. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices