Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Living On Campus Residential Communities Eaton Residential College AAA Eaton Residential College Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village In 1986, Eaton was the third hall converted to a residential college. It is the oldest residence hall on campus and originally opened as an all-women building. This residential college was named after Julian S. Eaton, an alumnus of the Law School and Chairman of the Board of Trustees in 1951. When Eaton was dedicated, it was quoted as being an “ultra-ultra dorm” by The Miami Herald. Eaton is located directly on the eastern side of Lake Osceola. The Eaton Residential College rooms are set up in a suite arrangement with two double rooms connected by a bathroom. Each floor includes single and double rooms with study lounges and laundry rooms on each floor. Building Information Physical Address: 1211 Dickinson Drive, Coral Gables, FL 33146 For sending receiving mail and packages, please review mail and package information in the Guide to Living on Campus Phone: 305-284-6845 Capacity: 391 students Room Type: Double rooms in semi-suites and private singles Amenities Bathroom Each semi-suite features an in-suite "jack-and-jill" style bathroom that connects the two rooms; private singles have their own private bathroom Laundry Community laundry room located on floors 2-4. All laundry is free for residents. Study Areas Study lounges located on each residential floor. Computer Lab A computer lab, outfitted with desktop computers and UPrint printers, is located on the first floor. Dining Hall Eaton residents with a meal plan have access to either the Hecht-Stanford or Mahoney-Pearson Dining Halls. Cable Resident students have access to HD cable via Philo WiFi Campus WiFi access is available throughout the entire building Secure Entry Residents must swipe their 'Cane Cards to have access to residential spaces Vending Machines Vending and ice machines are located on the first floor HOUSING RATES Room Layouts Double Suite Standard Single Bedroom Dimensions (L x W x H) 16’4” x 14’8” x 8’ What's Included Twin XL bed* Desk with hutch Chair Closet Dresser Recycle bin & trash container Bathroom Dimensions 6'8" x 4'7" x 8' What's Included 2 mirrors 2 towel racks shower curtain toilet paper holder Room Dimensions Closet 1 6’1” x 6’ Closet 2 4'11" x 6' Desk 5'4” x 3’11” x 1’8” (2’7” leg space under desk) Desk Chair 1’7” x 1’8” x 2’8” Dresser 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’9” Hutch 3'11" x 1'7" Mattress (Twin XL) 80” x 36” (11” off ground) Safe (in closet) 1' x 1' x 1'2" Window (x2) 6'6" (W) *The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Bed risers are allowed. Bedroom Dimensions (L X W X H) 12'11” x 14’1” x 8’ What's Included Twin XL bed* Desk with hutch Chair Closet Dresser Recycle bin & trash container Bathroom Dimensions 4'4" x 6'6" x 8' What's Included Mirror Towel rack Shower curtain Toilet paper holder Room Dimensions Closet 4’8” x 2'6" Desk 5'4” x 3’11” x 1’8” (2’7” leg space under desk) Desk Chair 1’7” x 1’8” x 2’8” Dresser 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’9” Hutch 3'11" x 1'7" Mattress (Twin XL) 80” x 36” (11” off ground) Safe (in closet) 1' x 1' x 1'2" Window (x2) 6'6" W *The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Bed risers are allowed. Staff & Faculty Open All Tabs Renae Bollibon, Area Director r.bollibon@miami.edu 305-284-6722 Maria Acosta, Office Supervisor macosta1@miami.edu 305-284-4994 Dr. Yunqiu (Daniel) Wang, Senior Residential Faculty Yunqiu Wang is a senior lecturer at the UM Biology Department, teaching genetics and conducting biology education research. His current research interests focus on engaging students to construct deep knowledge and active learning skills. He is the recipient of the UM Excellence in Teaching Award and has been a consistent contributor to national conferences in biology education research. His research has been supported by National Science Foundation (NSF) and Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI). He and his wife, Xiyuhan (Filly), and his daughter, Ayla, live in Eaton with their dog, Super, and their cat, mimi. yunqiu@miami.edu 305-284-4181 Lokesh Ramamoorthi, Faculty Fellow Lokesh Ramamoorthi is a lecturer in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, teaching software engineering and cybersecurity. His research and areas of interest are cybersecurity, technology entrepreneurship, diversity, and sustainability. Originally from Chennai, India, Lokesh worked as a technology professional for global Fortune 100 companies. He came to the University of Miami in 2013 to pursue an MBA in computer information systems. He lives with his wife and enjoys having a fun time with his toddler daughter. lokeshr@miami.edu 305-284-3708 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices