Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Living On Campus Residential Communities Mahoney Residential College AAA Mahoney Residential College Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Mahoney was the final hall converted to a Residential College in 1988. It was dedicated to Daniel J. Mahoney, the late publisher of The Miami News and Chairman of the Board of Trustees for several years. Completed in 1958, Mahoney was an all men’s residence hall until the early 1970s, when it was changed to a coed facility and connected with its mirror image: Pearson Residential College. Located at the northeast end of campus on the corner of Ponce de Leon Boulevard and Stanford Drive, this residential college is 5 minutes walking distance from the University Center, Merrick and Memorial buildings, and The Learning Center. The MetroRail station is only 10 minutes away. Mahoney students dine with Pearson students in the cafeteria just west of the college. Building Information Physical Address: 1101 Stanford Drive, Coral Gables, FL 33146 For sending receiving mail and packages, please review mail and package information in the Guide to Living on Campus Phone: 305-284-4144 Capacity: 709 students Room Type: Double rooms in semi-suites and private singles Amenities Bathroom Each semi-suite features an in-suite "jack-and-jill" style bathroom that connects the two rooms; private singles have their own private bathroom Laundry Community laundry room located on floors 2-4. All laundry is free for residents. Study Areas Study lounges located on each residential floor. Computer Lab A computer lab, outfitted with desktop computers and UPrint printers, is located on the first floor. Dining Hall Mahoney residents with a meal plan have access to either the Hecht-Stanford or Mahoney-Pearson Dining Halls. Cable Resident students have access to HD cable via Philo WiFi Campus WiFi access is available throughout the entire building Secure Entry Residents must swipe their 'Cane Cards to have access to residential spaces Vending Machines Vending and ice machines are located on the first floor HOUSING RATES Room Layouts Double Suite Standard Single Bedroom Dimensions (L X W X H) 16’4” x 14’8” x 8’ What's Included Twin XL bed* Desk with hutch Chair Closet Dresser Recycle bin & trash container Bathroom Dimensions 6'8" x 4'7" x 8' What's Included 2 mirrors 2 towel racks shower curtain toilet paper holder Room Dimensions Closet 1 6’1” x 6’ Closet 2 4'11" x 6' Desk 5'4” x 3’11” x 1’8” (2’7” leg space under desk) Desk Chair 1’7” x 1’8” x 2’8” Dresser 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’9” Hutch 3'11" x 1'7" Mattress (Twin XL) 80” x 36” (11” off ground) Safe (in closet) 1' x 1' x 1'2" Window (x2) 6'6" (W) *The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Bed risers are allowed. Bedroom Dimensions (L x W x H) 12'11” x 14’1” x 8’ What's Included Twin XL bed* Desk with hutch Chair Closet Dresser Recycle bin & trash container Bathroom Dimensions 4'4" x 6'6" x 8' What's Included Mirror Towel rack Shower curtain Toilet paper holder Room Dimensions Closet 4’8” x 2'6" Desk 5'4” x 3’11” x 1’8” (2’7” leg space under desk) Desk Chair 1’7” x 1’8” x 2’8” Dresser 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’9” Hutch 3'11" x 1'7" Mattress (Twin XL) 80” x 36” (11” off ground) Safe (in closet) 1' x 1' x 1'2" Window (x2) 6'6" W *The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Bed risers are allowed. Staff & Faculty Open All Tabs Alejandro "Alex" Castaneda, Area Director a.castaneda@miami.edu 305-284-4792 David Batson, Office Supervisor deb70@miami.edu 305-284-2778 Dr. Kysha Harriell, Senior Residential Faculty Dr. Harriell is a Clinical Professor in the Athletic Training Program and the Executive Director of the Office of Academic Enhancement. Previously, she worked as an Assistant Athletic Trainer with many of UM's sports teams. Her research focuses on sports medicine for the female athlete, and she is involved with projects that focus on health care issues impacting ethnically diverse individuals. She lives with her 14 year-old niece, Viera and her dog, Patella. kharriell@miami.edu 305-284-3201 Dr. Justin Ritzinger, Associate Residential Faculty Justin Ritzinger 芮哲 teaches Asian religions in the Religious Studies Department. His research focuses on modern Buddhism in China and Taiwan. Between college and grad school he worked as a translator and teacher in Taiwan. There he met his wife, Amei, who now teaches Chinese lessons in Miami. They have two daughters: Anne (12), a budding artist; and Maggie (4), a charming chaos agent. . 若有事情想用中文討論，可以來找我. j.ritzinger@miami.edu 305-284-3671 R. Denisse Cordova Montes and Andrew Dykstra, Faculty Fellows Denisse Córdova Montes is a lecturer-in-law in the Human Rights Clinic at the School of Law. Previously, she was based in Germany, where she coordinated the gender and women’s rights program at an international human rights organization. Her work focuses on the rights to food and nutrition, land, water, and decent working conditions, and has worked with Indigenous Peoples, rural groups, and immigrant workers in the Americas, Africa, and Asia. She was born in Lima, and while she has lived in Peru, Germany, Switzerland, and Canada, she has spent the majority of her life in the U.S. and considers Florida her home. Her husband, Andy Dykstra, is a faculty member in the Department of Biomedical Engineering. They live with their 8-year old son, Julian, 4-year-old daughter, Nora, and cat, Mowgli. Dr. Claire Oueslati-Porter, Faculty Fellow Claire Oueslati-Porter is an anthropologist and a core lecturer in the Gender and Sexuality Studies program at the University of Miami, where she teaches courses including Introduction to Gender & Sexuality Studies, Gender in the Middle East and North Africa, and Gender and Forced Migration. She recently published a book on Tunisian women and work. cxo185@miami.edu (305) 297-0865 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices