Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search Applying for Housing What to Expect Residential Communities Guide to Living On Campus Managing Mold & Mildew in Residential Areas Mobile ID Roommate Guide Tropical Storm & Hurricane Information Gender-Inclusive Housing Safety and Security Services Campus Television Services Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Applying for Housing What to Expect Residential Communities Guide to Living On Campus Managing Mold & Mildew in Residential Areas Mobile ID Roommate Guide Tropical Storm & Hurricane Information Gender-Inclusive Housing Safety and Security Services Campus Television Services Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Living On Campus Guide to Living On Campus AAA Guide to Living On Campus Applying for Housing What to Expect Residential Communities Guide to Living On Campus Managing Mold & Mildew in Residential Areas Mobile ID Roommate Guide Tropical Storm & Hurricane Information Gender-Inclusive Housing Safety and Security Services Campus Television Services Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates In addition to our complete policies and procedures (available at bottom), below is the information a resident student needs to have a successful experience living in on-campus housing. Most importantly, resident students should be in constant communication with any roommates or suitemates as well as their RA/CA. In certain circumstances, resident students should reach out to their Area Director for assistance. Sample Housing Agreement 2021-2022 Open All Tabs Accessibility and Accommodations The Office of Disability Services (ODS) is the primary University office responsible for the coordination of auxiliary aids and services for students with disabilities and/or that require special accommodations, including recommendations on a space available basis related to on-campus housing. ODS can be reached at 305-284-2374 or disabilityservices@miami.edu. Request ODS Accommodations We work directly with ODS and assist resident students and their families with housing-related special accommodations. Examples include overseeing attendant care access to the building daytime/overnight, facilitating remote access to student rooms where power assisted doors are installed, and coordinating with Facilities Customer Service and HRL any needed minor facility adaptations. Emotional support animals and service animals must be coordinated and approved by ODS prior to a student moving to campus housing. In case of an emergency where residential students are evacuated to a temporary shelter, only service animals will be allowed into the shelter. Alternate accommodations must be found for emotional support animal. Appliances Students are allowed to use popcorn poppers, microwaves, coffee pots, and crockpots if they have encased heating units. All other heating devices, including “George Foreman”-type grills and toasters/toaster ovens, are considered a fire hazard and may not be used in the residential colleges. Students living in Lakeside or University Village may use these appliances in their kitchen areas only, not their individual bedrooms. Students in residential colleges may provide their own refrigerator as long as it operates on no more than 1.5 amps and 175 watts. Microwaves are recommended to be no more than 900 watts. All appliances and electronic devices should be protected from overloads by a surge protector. (120-volt, U.L. approved; built-in manual reset; 15-amp circuit breaker; maximum length of cord 6 feet; maximum 6 outlets at end of cord). BedLoft and Appliance Rentals The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft (including its MicroFridge rental program) and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Students may use bed risers, however, they may not lift the bed higher than 24" off the ground. Review information about student-owned appliances above. Bicycles Students may store bicycles in their rooms or in the bike racks provided outside of the residential areas. Please note that fire safety regulations do not permit bicycles to be stored in hallways, balconies or stairwells; cannot be locked to handrails, trees or street signs; and cannot block emergency exits. All bicycles must be registered with the University of Miami Police Department (UMPD). U-bicycle Locks and Registrations are provided for free to all bicycle owners by UMPD. Campus TV with Philo Philo allows resident students to watch and record their favorite content on Philo-enabled channels seamlessly across their devices from anywhere on campus, including select HBO channels. Students can also select their favorite movies and shows, and Philo will record them automatically. To set up your cable TV, follow these simple steps: Connect cable cord to the outlet in the wall and into the back of the television In the menu of television, go to setup, switch from Air to CATV (if necessary) Scan for channels: Digital Make sure your TV has a QAM tuner in order to receive the full listing of channels available. Lakeside Village: Since there are no cable outlets in Lakeside Village units, these resident students can access Philo via a web browser or other internet-connected devices. For any service issues please call telecommunications at 305-284-6565. CAMPUS TV SERVICES Carts Carts are available for check-out at each area's reception desks. All residents may borrow a cart for only 2 hours to allow for usage by all students. If carts are not returned within the allotted time, a fee may be charged to the student's account. Students will be billed the replacement cost of items not returned after 24 hours. 'Cane Cards In addition to other campus locations, a ‘Cane Card grants access to the student's residential area and their individual rooms/apartments. Students are required to carry their ‘Cane Card at all times and the transfer of Cane 'Cards to anyone other than the cardholder is prohibited. Each card is specifically coded for the building in which a student lives and will register invalid when used in another residential area. If you lose your card, another one can be obtained at the ‘Cane Card Office. Lock Outs During Daily Desk Hours If you are accidentally locked out of your room/apartment, you may obtain a loan key (UV and LSV bedroom only) or loan key card at the front desk of your residential area between the hours of 8 a.m. and 10 p.m. Each resident within a residential living community will be provided three courtesy loan key or loan key card issuances per academic year at no charge to the student. Starting with the fourth loan key or key card issuance of the academic year and each issuance thereafter, a $25 service fee will be charged to the student’s account for use of this service. The loan key or key card must be returned within two hours. You must also show your ‘Cane Card to the desk assistant when you return the loan key or key card. If your loan key or key card is not returned within 2 hours, a charge may be issued to your account. All locks and keys are the property of the University and are not to be repaired, changed, or duplicated except by University maintenance personnel. Residents are not to borrow keys, loan key cards, or Cane Cards from other residents. If a student’s key or Cane Card is lost, the student will be responsible for the cost of replacing the key and/or 'Cane Card. No student, guest, or family member may sign out a key or key card for another student’s room/apartment. Coronavirus (COVID-19) Housing and Residential Life is committed to providing a living environment that is as safe as possible while the University navigates the new normal of physical distancing. LEARN MORE Eligibility for On-Campus Housing Student housing on the Coral Gables campus is limited to full-time, degree-seeking undergraduate students. Married couples, students with their child(ren), and part-time students (enrolled in 12 or fewer credits for the semester), as well as Intensive English, Law and Medical students are unfortunately not eligible for on-campus housing. Gender-Inclusive Housing The Department of Housing and Residential Life (HRL) at the University of Miami seeks to provide a living environment welcoming to all gender identities; one not limited by the traditional understanding of gender as only male and female. Gender-inclusive housing allows for individuals to live together regardless of biological sex. This policy has been developed to better provide a supportive environment where all residents can feel safe in their housing assignments with respect to their gender identity and gender expression. Offering gender-inclusive housing is supportive of creating a more inclusive campus climate and community. About Gender-Inclusive Housing Guests Residents are permitted to host non-University-of-Miami-student guests within their rooms/apartments. Guests are permitted by invitation only and with the express permission of their roommate(s). Any student guests will be expected to show their ’Cane Card and non-student guests must show a government-issued ID upon entering the building or by request. Guests must be accompanied by a resident of that building at all times. When accompanied by the resident, guests may visit halls, lounges, courtyards, and other common spaces. In areas where bathrooms are shared by the floor, guests must use restrooms that align with their gender identity. In accommodations where a private or semi-private restroom is available, guests may use that facility only if the roommate and/or suitemates/apartment-mates grant permission. Housekeeping & Maintenance For all facilities-related requests, please complete the Facilities Management Service Request Form or call Facilities Customer Service at 305-284-8282 seven days a week. Housekeeping staff will clean shared bathrooms in the two towers complexes (Hecht and Stanford) daily. Residents of suite-style buildings (Eaton, Mahoney, and Pearson Residential College), and University Village must clean their own bathrooms. If students have an insect problem, they may request extermination services by completing the Facilities Management Service Request Form. Please keep in mind that insects are attracted to accessible food. Keep all food tightly wrapped and stored in sealed containers. Throw away all garbage on a regular basis. Trash and Recycling All rooms are equipped with a waste and recycling bin. Each floor in Hecht, Stanford, Mahoney and Pearson centrally located trash chute and recycling room. Eaton has centrally located trash containers on each floor. Dumpsters and recycling cans are located near each building in the University Village for residents to discard their trash. Hurricanes and Tropical Storms The Department of Housing and Residential Life staff will inform residents of necessary preparations for a storm. Resident Assistants/ Community Assistants will provide specific information and be your primary information source. UM Emergency Hotline: 1-800-227-0354 PREPARING FOR A STORM Internet The University provides internet connectivity to all students. All residential areas are equipped with University Wi-Fi and all bedrooms are equipped with a port for wired connectivity. Learn how to connect to the University's internet services by visiting UMIT's DIY Networking web page. Laundry Each residential area has laundry facilities that are free for all on-campus residents. All apartments in the University Village and Lakeside Village are equipped with in-unit washers and dryers. Suites at Lakeside Village will utilize laundry facilities located throughout the building. Lakeside Village Machines located in communal laundry rooms in Lakeside Village are operated exclusively through a mobile app. To use the app: Search for the CSCPay Mobile app in the Apple Store or on Google Play or visit getpaymobile.com Once connected to the laundry room within the app, scan the machine you would like to use For more information, review FAQs about using the app and connecting to the laundry room. Laundry Service Students who wish to pay additional for full-service laundry and dry cleaning can sign up for Tide's University Laundry. The service is app-based, and the convenient laundry lockers allow for 24/7 drop-off and pick-up access. Lockers are located in Hecht, Mahoney/Pearson, and Eaton Residential Colleges. To sign up for service: universitylaundry.com/miami. Mail and Packages Residents of Eaton, Hecht, Lakeside Village, Mahoney, Pearson, and Stanford Mail and packages for these residents must be shipped to our on-campus The UPS Store at Lakeside Village. Each student is also assigned a Virtual Mailbox Number to have a unique and individualized mailing address. The UPS Store will also offer faxing, notary, and printing services. Residents will receive an email notification when mail or a package is ready for pickup from The UPS Store. Resident's Full Legal Name 1211 Walsh Avenue Box # XXXXX Coral Gables, Florida 33146 To view your mailbox number, visit the main page of the Housing Portal via CaneLink. Students should use the above mailing address for all paper mail and packages. Students should update their mailing address with their various organizations, friends, and family accordingly. Failure to do so, or to use the correct mailbox number, may result in mail and packages being returned to sender. Please note that specific building addresses should be used for food deliveries. Hours of Operation Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday and Sunday: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Hours may be limited during break periods or extended during peak periods. Package Pickup Students will receive an email when they have mail or packages processed and ready for pickup at The UPS Store. Students should have their email notification readily available when they arrive at The UPS Store. Students will pick up their mail and packages at the service desk and do not have a physical mailbox, the virtual mailbox number only serves to provide you with an individualized mailing address. Contact Information 786-392-3003 store7285@theupsstore.com Residents of University Village Students living in University Village will receive mail and packages at the University Village front desk/mail room. When a student receives a package, it is signed for at the reception desk and logged into our package tracking system. Once you receive an email from us notifying you that there is a package waiting for you – bring that email and your Cane Card to the reception desk to retrieve your package. Please note that there is a slight delay between the carrier's delivery notification and when we log it into our system. Resident's Full Legal Name 1527 Albenga Avenue UV#-###A/B/C/D Coral Gables, FL 33146 Managing Mold & Mildew in Residential Areas Molds are found in virtually every environment, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and mold and mildew can thrive in warm, humid places. Florida is on record as the most humid state in the nation, with South Florida's relative humidity being higher than most areas throughout the entire year. Therefore, moisture control, proper use of thermostats to allow for air circulation, and good housekeeping practices are necessary to control mold growth. Learn More Meal Plans All undergraduate students living in any of the residential colleges during the fall and/or spring semesters are required to purchase a residential meal plan. MORE INFO Mobile ID Mobile ID allows students living in the University Village who forget their 'Cane Card to access their building, apartment and room doors using their smartphones. Students are still expected to carry their 'Cane Cards and use them as the primary method of accessing all authorized spaces. MOBILE ID INFORMATION Move-In and Move-Out Information Please refer to the information provided on the move-in and move-out pages for specific information. On-Campus Housing Portal Your on-campus housing assignment, roommate information, message center, mailing address, and more are always available in your On-Campus Housing Portal. Access the On-Campus Housing Portal via CaneLink for Student by selecting the “Housing and Dining” dropdown from the menu. View this resource guide for more information. Personal Property Insurance The University is not liable for loss or damage to property caused by fire, rain, windstorm, hurricane, theft or vandalism, or other act of God or casualty or any causes beyond the control of the University. The University shall not be liable for damages caused by failure to maintain or repair the building, unless it has failed to make necessary repairs or maintenance within a reasonable time after notification to the Physical Plant/ Facilities Administration Department for need of such repairs. Personal property insurance is strongly recommended and is available from GradGuard, a service of Next Generation Insurance Group. Renters insurance from GradGuard is designed specifically for college students and provides valuable protection if a student’s personal belongings are stolen or damaged by a covered peril, including laptop computers, smart phones, bicycles, game consoles, textbooks, clothing and other items. Renters insurance also protects students financially for unintentional damage to the student’s residence or bodily injury to others for which the student is legally liable, within the residence premises. Applicants are able to opt-in through the housing sign-up process or decline coverage should the student be covered by the family’s homeowner’s insurance or decides to choose a different company. Pets Pets, other than aquarium fish, are not permitted in any on-campus housing facility. This pertains to visiting pets as well as those of the residents of the room/apartment. Please refer to "Accessibility and Accommodations" above for information regarding emotional support animals and service animals. Report a Bias-Related Incident To foster a Culture of Belonging, the University of Miami encourages everyone to report bias incidents that occur in our community so that inappropriate and unwelcome behavior may be properly addressed and the community at large can be educated. A bias incident - defined as an action, behavior or expression against an individual’s or group’s actual or perceived identity - can be reported to the Dean of Students Office via this form. Room Changes Room change requests can be made on the Housing Portal via CaneLink. Upon completion, you will receive a confirmation email message. Room changes are granted based upon available space, date of request, and, in some cases, seniority. Resident students can only begin their move once they receive written notification from the Department of Housing and Residential Life to confirm. Room changes made by resident students without authorization will result in the assessment of a $100 fine and may also include forfeiture of the requested room change. Room Personalization Your walls are a good place to start adding a bit of yourself to your room. You can decorate them with posters and photographs that create the atmosphere you want. You should keep in mind that decorations should not alter or damage the physical structure of the room/apartment. You may add curtains, bedspreads, rugs, wall hangings, posters, carpet, or lamps. You may not, however, paint, build lofts, hang flags, or the like from ceilings as these are fire hazards. Nothing is to be placed in, on, or hung from, in front of, or behind windows that block transparency or alter the appearance of the windows or the exterior of the building. All University-owned and provided furniture must remain in your room at all times. Candles The possession or use of candles, incense, or plug-in candle warmers within a residential space is prohibited. Other alternatives are available that would avoid fire hazards or risks: reed diffusers, battery-operated flameless LED scented candles, or battery-operated candle warmers. Roommates Sharing a room/apartment for many college students is a new experience. To ensure good relations with your roommate, suitemate, or apartment-mate, remember that it is always a good idea to talk things over first. We've assembled a guide to help you discuss some of these key topics with your roommate. ROOMMATE GUIDE Safety & Security Between the hours of 10 p.m. and 8 a.m., Security Assistants (student employees of the Department of Housing and Residential Life) monitor the entrance lobbies of the Residential Colleges. The duties of the Security Assistants include emergency response, oversight of fire and door prop alarm panels, access control to residential areas, and documentation of all nightly activity. Additional components of Housing & Residential Life's Safety & Security program are listed on the Safety and Security Services page. SAFETY & SECURITY SERVICES Sustainable Living Resident students are encouraged to incorporate sustainable practices into their daily living habits. To learn more about recycling in Miami-Dade, energy and water conservation, local food, gardening, nature preserve, and community engagement, visit Sustainable Living at the U. Students interested in serving in a leadership position can apply to an ECO Representative. Vending Machines Vending machines are located in the lobby of Hecht, Stanford, Eaton, Mahoney, and Pearson residential colleges and throughout Lakeside Village. Policies & Procedures Housing & Residential Life's policies and procedures provide and maintain a safe, comfortable environment in all residential areas for anyone who may be utilizing the facilities. Thus, all residents are expected to abide by these policies. Reviews and updates to our policies and procedures occur as needed or on an annual basis. This document highlights current policies and procedures at the time of its' posting. For a complete and up-to-date listing of all policies and procedures, inquiries can be made via email to housing@miami.edu with the subject line: "Policies/Procedures Request." View Policies and Procedures University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices