Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing RELATED LINKS CaneLink Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Living On Campus Apply for Housing Apply for Housing: Current Students AAA Apply for Housing: Current Students New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing RELATED LINKS CaneLink Housing Application for 2022-2023 All students apply for housing and make payment arrangements for the housing prepayment via the On-Campus Housing Portal accessed from CaneLink for Student by selecting the “Housing and Dining” dropdown from the menu. A $500 prepayment (payable by credit card) is required to complete the application. Current resident students must apply by the application deadline to be guaranteed the opportunity to participate in the room selection portion of the process for securing on-campus housing for the upcoming academic year and to select a specific room/apartment and roommate(s). Students who miss this deadline can still apply for housing but will not participate in the room/apartment selection processes; these students will be assigned a room/apartment dependent upon availability after the selection process is complete. Application Opens: Tuesday, Jan. 18, 2022, at 9 a.m. ET Application deadline (to participate in room selection): Tuesday, Feb. 1, 2022, by 11:59 p.m. ET Last day to cancel a housing application without a $500 penalty: Tuesday, Feb. 1 by 11:59 p.m. ET Last day to cancel a housing reservation with only a $500 penalty: Tuesday, May 31 by 5 p.m. ET Virtual Information Sessions Three information sessions will take place via Zoom to provide students with the details they need to successfully complete the application and room selection processes. Attending a session is optional and has no impact on your housing application or room selection priority. Students and family members are invited to attend any session and can pre-submit questions to be answered during the live presentation. Monday, Dec. 13, 2021, at 5 p.m. ET - Recording (passcode: n1^CX+@k) Tuesday, Jan. 18, 2022, at 7 p.m. ET - Recording (passcode: K1h$JKMf) Friday, Jan. 21, 2022, at noon ET - Recording (passcode: Ng&tYY1^) Roommates All applicants must identify the names of future roommates on their housing applications. Having mutually confirmed roommate groups may improve room selection priority as outlined below. Meal Plan/Dining Dollars Students can also select from a meal plan when applying for housing. Students living in on-campus housing are required to purchase a meal plan except for those living in University Village and Lakeside Village apartments, where the meal plan is optional. More information on Dining Services can be found on their website. Note: Students living in Lakeside Village suites are required to purchase a minimum of a $250 dining dollar plan. Additionally, first-year students who will be in their second semester at the University living in Lakeside Village must choose between the Unlimited, 19/week, or 14/week meal plan for the Fall 2022 semester regardless of room type. Room/Apartment and Roommate Selection Students who completed their application by the application deadline will receive an e-mail to their University e-mail address with a time and date to select their specific room/apartment (and roommates, if applicable). Applicants will continue to receive appointment time emails throughout the room selection process until they select a space. Unless they cancel their application, applicants who do not select a room/apartment during this time will be assigned a space after the room selection process is complete and will be notified via their University email address. Note: Although every student must apply for on-campus housing and identify mutually confirmed roommates on their application, only one person from a roommate group (i.e. the student who receives the earliest selection time) should be logged in during their assigned room selection time to select a specific assignment and finalize the reservations for their previously confirmed roommates. View Our On-Campus Housing Options Selection Priority Priority room selection times are given to students who have lived on campus the longest and have mutually confirmed roommates on their applications; groups that fill a whole suite or apartment are granted priority over groups that could only partially fill spaces. More information related to the prioritization process will be available during the information sessions. Selection Timeline Room/suite/apartment selection for the available on-campus housing spaces will take place according to the following schedule: Feb. 7-10: Lakeside Village selection by current LSV residents and other eligible resident students Feb. 14-17: University Village selection by current UV residents (and remaining eligible resident students) Feb. 21: Eaton private single room selection by current resident students Feb 23-24: Eaton double rooms and suites selection by current resident students Note: Local students who were admitted for the Spring 2022 semester will be eligible to participate in the room selection process if they apply for housing by the deadline. These students will receive an email with more specific information. Open All Tabs Personal Property Insurance The University is not liable for loss or damage to property caused by ire, rain, windstorm, hurricane, theft or vandalism, or other act of God or casualty or any causes beyond the control of the University. Therefore, personal property insurance is strongly recommended and is conveniently made available from GradGuard, a service of Next Generation Insurance Group. Applicants can opt-in through the housing sign-up process or decline coverage if the student is covered by the family’s homeowner’s insurance or decides to choose a different company. Renters insurance from GradGuard is designed specifically for college students and provides valuable protection if a student’s personal belongings are stolen or damaged by a covered peril, including laptop computers, smartphones, bicycles, game consoles, textbooks, clothing, and other items. Renters insurance also protects students financially for unintentional damage to the student’s residence or bodily injury to others for which the student is legally liable, within the residence premises. Gender-Inclusive Housing Students who are interested in living in Gender-Inclusive Housing must contact housing@miami.edu to schedule an appointment to speak with Housing and Residential Life staff before 5 p.m. on the date the application closes and must complete their housing application by the deadline. Meetings should be scheduled for a day and time after each resident has completed their application and so that every member of the group can attend. Students who are planning to live in Gender-Inclusive Housing must answer “Yes” when asked, “Are you interested in living in Gender-Inclusive Housing?” on the housing application. Additionally, those students do not need to identify roommates on the housing application. Roommate groups will be confirmed during the appointment with HRL staff. Note: Gender-Inclusive Housing can only be considered for groups of students who are able to fill all bed spaces in their desired suite/apartment. Current off-campus students Unless previously notified individually, current off-campus students can apply for on-campus housing, but are not eligible to participate in the room/apartment selection process and will be assigned a room/apartment based on availability after the room selection process is completed. Re-Admit/Leave of Absence/Inactive Status Students Students who are returning after time away from the University and have been re-admitted are eligible to apply for housing. To activate access specifically to the housing application link, re-admitted students must be eligible to register for classes for the academic semester they are interested to begin in housing. Students re-admitted for fall entrance can apply for housing on a space-available basis; a waiting list may be necessary. For spring semester housing, students should apply during the fall semester once their re-admittance is finalized and as soon as they know they will want/need on-campus housing. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices