Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search Applying for Housing What to Expect Residential Communities Guide to Living On Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Applying for Housing What to Expect Residential Communities Guide to Living On Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Living On Campus What to Expect AAA What to Expect Living On Campus Applying for Housing What to Expect Residential Communities Guide to Living On Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Resident Engagement Student Housing for Student Success: Through intentional engagement with resident students, HRL focuses its efforts on developing students both personally and professionally throughout their time on campus. By living on campus, students are footsteps away from a variety of academic, cultural and social experiences that are hard to get elsewhere. As a result of the residential experience, resident students can expect to: Connect: Engage and connect with the campus community Engage with fellow community members Experience different people and ideas Care: Learn ways to take care of yourself Recognize habits that promote a healthy lifestyle Identify appropriate resources and interventions related to physical and mental wellness Explore: Discover and discuss new ideas outside of the classroom Interact with faculty and University leaders in the residential setting Discuss intellectual topics with faculty and fellow community members Thrive: Develop skills to thrive beyond UM Discover tools and strategies promoting the advancement of interpersonal skills Recognize the resources and behaviors that promote academic, intrapersonal and professional success Guide to Living on Campus Residential Leadership Council The Residential Leadership Council program is an opportunity for resident students to develop their leadership skills as engaged members of their residential community. Throughout the year, members of the council coordinate social programs and provide feedback on the overall residential experience. Students interested in joining the council should speak with their RA/CA once they arrive on campus. Residential Colleges The University of Miami's Residential Colleges support and enhance student learning and engagement through interactions with live-in faculty and student affairs staff, as well as a wide range of programming, seminars, lectures, field trips, and recreational activities throughout the academic year. View All Residential Communities In-Area Faculty and Staff Area Directors & Assistant Area Directors Office Supervisors Resident Assistants/ Community Assistants Residential Faculty & Faculty Fellows Residential College Advisors First Year Fellows Area Directors are the primary administrators of each residential area and strive to maintain an environment that promotes academic, developmental, and social success. This is accomplished through coordinating educational programming in each area, collaborating with live-in faculty regarding academic initiatives, responding to resident issues or concerns, and serving as a crisis manager and a judicial officer. Office Supervisors are full-time staff members responsible for the oversight and management of the residential area reception desks. They serve as liaisons between the residential areas and a number of University offices, including Parking, Purchasing, Accounts Payable, Facilities, GCA, etc. These supervisors also supervise reception desk student staff and oversee desk operations including mail/package delivery and cart/vacuum check-out. Resident Assistants (RAs) and Community Assistants (CAs) are live-in student leaders who serve as residents' primary resource for campus information and for students' transition into the next stage of their personal and professional development on campus. RAs/Cas are the ultimate, versatile students that can provide their resident students with the help they need in day-to-day college life. Residential Faculty and Faculty Fellows are present in the Residential Colleges and serve as resources for students. The faculty hold office hours in the buildings, host dinners in their apartments, and work with the student staff to provide programming for residents that focus on current events, social issues, and faculty members' research interests. The Senior Advisor for Residential College Advising assists residential students in first-year communities and handles academic concerns related to major and career exploration. They frequently advise students on developing four-year plans and connect students to campus resources to aid in their success. Advisors also support at-risk students through outreach and programming efforts in the Residential Colleges, working with the Residential Faculty and First Year Fellows. They oversee the First Year Fellow peer mentorship role available in Eaton, Hecht, and Stanford Residential Colleges. First Year Fellows (FYFs) are upperclassmen student leaders living in first-year communities who build relationships with and support students as they transition into the college experience. FYFs develop and implement academic and personal development initiatives and programs for their residents throughout the year. FYFs, who report to the Office of Academic Enhancement, also work closely with the RAs to build a community that supports living and learning. Safety & Security In addition to the University of Miami Police Department, HRL Safety & Security staff utilize card swipe access so that only residents and properly credentialed staff have access to the non-public areas of the buildings. Our reception desks are staffed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week with our Resident Assistants and Desk Assistants from 8 a.m. - 10 p.m. daily, and from 10 p.m. - 8 a.m. with our Student Security Staff, who are responsible for signing in every guest and maintaining a desk presence in the event of an emergency. In addition to regular desk hours, RAs/CAs are on duty for crisis response should one occur. SAFETY & SECURITY SERVICES HRL Safety & Security Staff Residential Life Night Managers Comprised of professional and student staff, the HRL Safety & Security team is responsible for maintaining a safe environment, educating residents, and responding to crises between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Security Assistants are student employees that operate the security posts in each residential college. SAs screen individuals who enter the building, check in guests, monitor fire alarms and access doors, and serve as first responders to emergency situations that may arise throughout the night. Residential Life Night Managers are professional staff members who support RAs and Safety and Security student staff throughout the night, especially in crisis response. Together with Safety and Security staff, Night Managers plan semester programs and outreach initiatives designed to educate residents about on-campus safety and security. Live-On Requirement All non-local first-year students are required to live in University housing for two academic semesters, as long as space is available. This policy does not apply to first-year students living with parents or legal guardians in Miami-Dade or Broward counties. Live-On Requirement Exemption Request Housing Application Ready to apply for on-campus housing? New students - including those transferring to UM from another institution - who have been admitted to the University are eligible to apply for housing via CaneLink under the "UM Housing" section. To activate access to the housing application link, admitted students must pay the $500 enrollment deposit to verify their admission acceptance. Apply for housing: new students University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices