Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Apply for Housing Living on Campus Residential Communities Living Off Campus About Us Search Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Apply for Housing New/Incoming Students Current Students Winter Intersession Housing Summer Housing Gender and Sexuality Living Learning Community Living on Campus COVID-19 What to Expect Guide to Living on Campus Move-In Information Move-Out Information Housing Rates Residential Communities Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village New Student Housing Projects Living Off Campus Off-Campus Housing Listings Off-Campus Guide About Us Mission & Vision Contact HRL Employment Opportunities Provide Feedback New Student Housing Projects Give Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village Living On Campus Living Off Campus Summer Intern Housing Conference Services About Us Home Living On Campus Residential Communities Pearson Residential College AAA Pearson Residential College Eaton Residential College Hecht Residential College Lakeside Village Mahoney Residential College Pearson Residential College Stanford Residential College University Village In 1987, Pearson Hall was rededicated as a Residential College. The hall was originally opened in 1962, and in 1969 was named in honor of Jay F. W. Pearson. Pearson was a member of UM’s first faculty and eventually became the second president of the University. Pearson was a scientist who, as a young man, participated in expeditions to British Guinea and the Galapagos Islands. His non-traditional background in science provided a unique perspective in administering as president. Pearson was a driving force behind the establishment of the medical school and the development of the library. He also recognized the role of positive relations with Latin America and with the South Florida community as being vital to the institution’s success. Building Information Physical Address: 5185 Ponce de Leon Boulevard, Coral Gables, FL 33146 For sending receiving mail and packages, please review mail and package information in the Guide to Living on Campus Phone: 305-284-4211 Capacity: 717 students Room Type: Double rooms in semi-suites and private singles Amenities Bathroom Each semi-suite features an in-suite "jack-and-jill" style bathroom that connects the two rooms; private singles have their own private bathroom Laundry Community laundry room located on floors 2-4. All laundry is free for residents. Study Areas Study lounges located on each residential floor. Computer Lab A computer lab, outfitted with desktop computers and UPrint printers, is located on the first floor. Dining Hall Pearson residents with a meal plan have access to either the Hecht-Stanford or Mahoney-Pearson Dining Halls. Cable Resident students have access to HD cable via Philo WiFi Campus WiFi access is available throughout the entire building Secure Entry Residents must swipe their 'Cane Cards to have access to residential spaces Vending Machines Vending and ice machines are located on the first floor HOUSING RATES Room Layouts Double Suite Standard Single Bedroom Dimensions (L x W x H) 16’4” x 14’8” x 8’ What's Included Twin XL bed* Desk with hutch Chair Closet Dresser Recycle bin & trash container Bathroom Dimensions 6'8" x 4'7" x 8' What's Included 2 mirrors 2 towel racks shower curtain toilet paper holder Room Dimensions Closet 1 6’1” x 6’ Closet 2 4'11" x 6' Desk 5'4” x 3’11” x 1’8” (2’7” leg space under desk) Desk Chair 1’7” x 1’8” x 2’8” Dresser 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’9” Hutch 3'11" x 1'7" Mattress (Twin XL) 80” x 36” (11” off ground) Safe (in closet) 1' x 1' x 1'2" Window (x2) 6'6" (W) *The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Bed risers are allowed. Bedroom Dimensions (L x W x H) 12'11” x 14’1” x 8’ What's Included Twin XL bed* Desk with hutch Chair Closet Dresser Recycle bin & trash container Bathroom Dimensions 4'4" x 6'6" x 8' What's Included Mirror Towel rack Shower curtain Toilet paper holder Room Dimensions Closet 4’8” x 2'6" Desk 5'4” x 3’11” x 1’8” (2’7” leg space under desk) Desk Chair 1’7” x 1’8” x 2’8” Dresser 3’6” x 2’6” x 1’9” Hutch 3'11" x 1'7" Mattress (Twin XL) 80” x 36” (11” off ground) Safe (in closet) 1' x 1' x 1'2" Window (x2) 6'6" W *The University has ended its partnership with BedLoft and will no longer allow students to loft their beds. Bed risers are allowed. Staff & Faculty Open All Tabs Alejandro “Alex” Castaneda, Area Director a.castaneda@miami.edu 305-284-4792 David Batson, Office Supervisor deb70@miami.edu 305-284-2778 Joy Beverly, Senior Residential Faculty Joy Beverly is a Mathematics Lecturer whose research interests are student persistence and innovative classroom methods. She and her husband, Jerry, live in Pearson with Sergeant, a U Pup service dog in training. The Beverlys, both first-generation college students, were collegiate athletes when they met and now love to cheer for UM sports. They are happiest when spending time with their three beautiful daughters Alexandra, Samantha, and Gabriela who are all proud Hurricanes. joybeverly@miami.edu 305-284-9427 Dr. Nick Carcioppolo, Associate Residential Faculty Nick Carcioppolo is an associate professor of communication studies. His research focuses on the development and assessment of preventive health interventions, particularly in the context of cancer prevention and screening. Dr. Carcioppolo was born on Long Island but considers Buffalo, NY his spiritual home. You’ll often find him walking around campus with his dog, Toasty, and his daughter, Eloise. n.carcioppolo@miami.edu 305-284-5633 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Housing & Residential Life 1211 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4505 305-284-4505 housing@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices