Human Rights@Harvard Law THE ONLINE HOME OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS PROGRAM & INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS CLINIC About Human Rights Program Clinic Armed Conflict Initiative Areas of Focus Blog Events Publications Fellowships Go Just Security Series Explores Myanmar Coup > Report Finds Haitian Government Complicit in Crimes Against Humanity > HRP Awards 2022 Summer Fellows > The Human Cost of Incendiary Weapons and Shortcomings of International Law > An Academic Home for a Global Mandate: UN Expert Mentors Harvard Students, Promotes LGBT Rights > International Human Rights Clinic The Clinic works to protect the human rights of clients and communities around the world through documentation; legal and strategic analysis; litigation; treaty negotiations; and advocacy initiatives. Through supervised practice, students learn the responsibilities and skills of human rights lawyering. The Human Rights Program The Human Rights Program is the center for human rights scholarship and research at Harvard Law School. It inspires and offers guidance to international human rights learning at the Law School. Founded by Professor Emeritus Henry Steiner in 1984, the Program helps students, advocates, and scholars to deepen their knowledge of human rights, and to advance discussions and critical reflection on human rights. Clinic The International Human Rights Clinic works to protect the human rights of clients and communities around the world. Learn more about the Clinic > Program The Human Rights Program is the center for human rights scholarship at Harvard Law School. Learn more about the Program > View All Areas Areas of Focus Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights … The right to food, housing, water, health, and more are bound together under the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights > Human Rights and the Environment … As climate change has detrimental effects on every aspect of our lives, human rights and the environment are inextricably linked > Accountability Litigation … Survivors of egregious human rights violations have frequently sought justice in the courtroom > Myanmar … A legacy of military rule and ethnic discrimination has opened Myanmar up to international scrutiny > Business & Human Rights … Seeking best human rights practices from corporations is critical in our global economy > Armed Conflict & Civilian Protection … Preventing civilian harm is the goal of the humanitarian disarmament community > UN Treaty Bodies … The UN Treaty Bodies monitor states’ compliance with their human rights obligations > Visit Our Blog From Our Blog May 13, 2022 2021 HRP Summer Fellow Reflection: Amre Metwally JD’22 More > May 11, 2022 HRP Awards 2022 Summer Fellows More > See all Events Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events scheduled. About The Human Rights Program Clinic Areas of Focus Blog Events Publications Fellowships Contact Us Privacy Policy The Human Rights Program | 3rd Floor | 6 Everett Street | Cambridge, MA 02138 | 617-495-9362