Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Facilities and Capital Planning School of Humanities and Sciences Search Menu About Us Our Mission People Contact Us Project and Program Management Overview Types of Projects & Roles Contractor and Consultant Resources Space Planning Health and Safety Health and Safety Overview Security Overview Building Emergency Plans Training Trainings STARS Courses Previous Next Humanities & Sciences COVID-19 Resource For General Stanford COVID-19 Resource For Stanford Humanities & Sciences COVID-19 Resource Our Mission The Facilities and Capital Planning team plans, builds, and manages facilities and physical space within the School of Humanities and Sciences. Read more about us Submit a Facilities Request Need help with your building? Moving to a new space? Are you a new faculty? Please click here. Project and Program Management Facilities and Capital Planning provides a wide range of project management services for new construction projects Learn about Project and Program Management Types of Projects and Roles Contractor and Consultant Resources Facilities and Space Planning From classic main quad buildings to modern art spaces, the FCP team can help analyze your space and help you plan for the future. Facilities & Space Planning Health, Safety, and Security The well being of your staff, students and faculty are of critical importance. FCP provides health and safety services for the school. Health and Safety Overview Security Overview Photo credits: LA Cicero SUNet Login H&S Resources School of Humanities & Sciences Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning Public Relations Research Administration COVID resources Humanities & Sciences COVID-19 Information Contact Us Facilities and Capital Planning 450 Jane Stanford Way, Building 1 Stanford, CA 94305 650-723-7919 hsdofcp-services@stanford.edu Campus Map The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.