Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Subscribe Donate Contact Us Search About Leadership Faculty Annual Reports Contact Us Research Disease Programs Aging & Fibrosis Stem Cells as Tools Early-Stage Research For Patients Training Internship Program MD/PhD Fellowship Startups Commercialization Community Events Funding Opportunities Centers & Cores Job Opportunities News Newsletter Archive HOME / PEOPLE / Douglas A. Melton, Ph.D. Douglas A. Melton, Ph.D. Harvard Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology Howard Hughes Medical Institute Doug Melton's goal is to cure diabetes. His lab is working to eliminate the present practice of regular blood checks and insulin injections, replacing them with insulin-producing cell transplants, specifically pancreatic beta cells that measure glucose levels and secrete just the right amount of insulin. The Melton lab applies developmental biology to understand and change the course of diabetes. The methods they have developed to make hundreds of millions of functional beta cells from human stem cells (ES or iPS cells) form the central theme for their research. One approach is to study how to make all the islet endocrine cells, including alpha (glucagon-producing) and delta (somatostatin-producing) cells and produce islet-like clusters. These human stem cell-derived islet clusters are used both in vitro and in vivo for metabolic studies on islet function. iPS cells derived from either Type 1 (juvenile) or Type 2 (adult onset) diabetics has made it possible to begin studies on the root cause(s) of diabetes. These stem cell islet clusters, derived using patient’s blood, enable studies on diabetic islet biology, and are being used to understand the cellular and genetic basis of the autoimmune attack in Type 1 diabetes. Find out more Learn more about Doug Melton's research on the Melton Lab website Biosketch Douglas Melton, co-director of HSCI, is the Xander University Professor at Harvard and an Investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. He earned a bachelor's degree in biology from the University of Illinois and then went to Cambridge University in England as a Marshall Scholar. He earned a BA in history and philosophy of science at Cambridge and remained there to earn a PhD in molecular biology at Trinity College and the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology. Feature stories The Quest To Cure Diabetes: From Insulin To The Body's Own Cells: Listen on WBUR Vertex to Acquire Semma Therapeutics With a Goal of Developing Curative Cell-Based Treatments for Type 1 Diabetes: Read it on Vertex news Improving cell therapy for diabetes: Read it on the Harvard Gazette Epidemic of autoimmune diseases calls for action: Read it on the Harvard Gazette BAIRT Program to accelerate a cure for diabetes: Read it on the Harvard Gazette Contact Information dmelton@harvard.edu Websites Melton Laboratory Doug Melton publications Affiliation(s) Harvard Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology Howard Hughes Medical Institute Research Interest(s) Diabetes Year 2017 HSCI Status Director Scientific Directors Executive Committee Principal Faculty Program Leader Diabetes Program Faculty by Affiliation Faculty by Research Interest Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (4) Boston Children's Hospital (30) Brigham and Women's Hospital (18) Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (18) Harvard Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology (2) Harvard Department of Physics (1) Harvard Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology (21) Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences (4) Harvard Medical School (69) Harvard School of Dental Medicine (2) Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (3) Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health (2) Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology (1) Howard Hughes Medical Institute (4) Joslin Diabetes Center (7) Massachusetts Eye and Ear (1) Massachusetts General Hospital (23) McLean Hospital (1) The Broad Institute (8) Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering (3) Aging (16) Bioengineering (12) Bioinformatics (7) Blood Diseases (27) Cancer (44) Cardiovascular Diseases (12) Diabetes (11) Eye Diseases (3) Fibrosis (5) Gastrointestinal Diseases (3) Hearing Loss (2) Immunology (11) Kidney Diseases (3) Liver Diseases (2) Lung Diseases (2) Musculoskeletal Diseases (10) Muscular Dystrophy (2) Nervous System Diseases (18) ALS (4) Alzheimer's Disease Huntington's Disease (2) Neuropsychiatric Disorders (7) Parkinson's Disease (5) Skin Diseases (6) Harvard Stem Cell Institute Bauer Building, Administrative Suite 7 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Subscribe Donate Contact About Research Training Startups Community News a318b98b23533d577d487f55b06a2652 66f240d1e197fe7bc99effe9be566607 f79fa91a4ba9ce2c2e416fb8e158b92e Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement