Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Subscribe Donate Contact Us Search About Leadership Faculty Annual Reports Contact Us Research Disease Programs Aging & Fibrosis Stem Cells as Tools Early-Stage Research For Patients Training Internship Program MD/PhD Fellowship Startups Commercialization Community Events Funding Opportunities Centers & Cores Job Opportunities News Newsletter Archive 523d03116182b644ab9c70d4ffb5a96f Our mission is to find cures for human diseases. Harvard Stem Cell Institute (HSCI) scientists are working together across Harvard schools, centers, and teaching hospitals, harnessing the power of stem cells to change medicine for the better. Read more about HSCI Research HSCI bridges the gaps in traditional research funding to encourage bold thinking and launch scientific careers. Through our disease programs, we channel world-class resources, both intellectual and technological, toward some of the most prevalent, devastating diseases for which stem cell research holds promise. In addition, our seed grants and junior faculty programs provide funding for innovative, early-stage projects in stem cell research. This allows up-and-coming scientists to pursue "high risk/high reward" avenues of research that might be difficult to fund from other sources. How does stress affect stem cells? Here, we see elaborate sympathetic innervation (magenta) around melanocyte stem cells (yellow). Acute stress has triggered the release of large amounts of norepinephrine, depleting the melanocyte stem cells and causing hair to lose color. Image courtesy of Hsu Laboratory, Harvard University Blood Diseases Cancer Cardiovascular Diseases Diabetes Kidney Disease Musculoskeletal Disease Nervous System Diseases Skin Diseases Fibrosis & Aging Stem Cells as Tools All Research Areas News A new therapy for treating Type 1 diabetes Promising early results show that longstanding Harvard Stem Cell Institute (HSCI) research may have paved the way for a breakthrough treatment of Type 1 diabetes. Utilizing research from the Melton Lab, Vertex Pharmaceuticals has developed VX-880, an investigational stem cell-derived, fully differentiated pancreatic islet cell replacement therapy for people with type 1 diabetes (T1D). Immunofluorescence images of co-differentiation culture show representations of spontaneous spatial organization of PECs and CMs in a ‘tube’ like structure from three independent experiments. Researchers generate protective embryonic heart cells Researchers at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) led by Harvard Stem Cell Institute Principal Faculty Harald C. Ott M.D. have generated the embryonic cells that support early heart development. Cyborg brain organoids offer insight into early brain development Thursday, March 24, 2022 More News HSCI Community Events HSCI Faculty Doug Melton and David Scadden, founding co-directors of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute. HSCI has been breaking down barriers to collaboration in stem cell science since 2004. We provide fertile ground for more than 350 research faculty and their labs, across the university’s schools, centers, teaching hospitals, and partner companies, to share knowledge and pursue bold new ideas. With Harvard as a wellspring of discovery and a strong network that embraces new ways of working, we are better equipped than ever to change human health in ways that will benefit all of society. Executive Committee Principal Faculty Affiliate Faculty From Lab to Clinic Company Startups A key part of our mission is to move research out of the lab and into the clinic. Since our founding, we have been forging a clear path to translating discoveries into products that benefit patients. Now, we have the flexibility to organize people across institutions and sectors to tackle specific biological problems so we can make a lasting difference in people's lives. HSCI faculty startups Stem-cell research news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for the HSCI monthly newsletter Subscribe Harvard Stem Cell Institute Bauer Building, Administrative Suite 7 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Subscribe Donate Contact About Research Training Startups Community News a318b98b23533d577d487f55b06a2652 66f240d1e197fe7bc99effe9be566607 f79fa91a4ba9ce2c2e416fb8e158b92e Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement