Skip to content HSCRB Search Menu Frontier research and innovative teaching at the interface of biology and medicine Image of insulin-producing beta cells, courtesy of the Melton laboratory. Coronavirus (COVID-19) In March 2020 at the start of the Covid-19 Pandemic, Harvard University took immediate preventative measures to protect its students and employees. By May 2020, the University announced its research laboratory re-entry plan including prevention of workplace exposure and limiting contact within our research laboratories. The department in collaboration with the FAS continues to maintain many of these measures. Information and resources about Covid-19 workplace safety can be found at the link below. FAS coronavirus page From the Labs Different autism risk genes, same effects on brain development HSCRB and Broad researchers use 3D, miniature models of the human brain to advance disease understanding Read the full Story From the Labs Genomic sequencing that preserves cells’ locations within tissues New technique allows researchers to better understand spatial differences in complex tissues such as tumors Read the full Story HSCRB Research Combating disease and tissue degeneration and improving human health. This is the ultimate goal of HSCRB’s research, whether it is focused on the most basic level of cellular development or screening chemical compounds for potential drugs. Our mission is to push the frontiers of stem cell and regenerative biology, illuminating the workings of human health and disease in both basic discovery and clinical settings. Related Links Our Research Faculty and Labs In axolotl salamanders, the blastema - a collection of dedifferentiated cells and stem cells derived from stump tissues - orchestrates the regeneration of an entire limb. Image courtesy of the Whited Laboratory Undergraduate students attend a lecture in HSCRB. HSCRB Education The best place to learn about stem cell science, at the graduate and undergraduate level. HSCRB is the place to learn about stem cell science at both the graduate level and the undergraduate level. We are committed to transforming medicine by cultivating a deeper knowledge of stem cell and regenerative biology, and to training the next generation to explore new frontiers in biomedical science. All of our students conduct independent research. Related Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students HSCRB by the numbers 300+ Papers published in Cell, Nature, Science, and their high-impact sister journals 100% Undergraduates who conduct independent research 9+ Collaborating local institutes and hospitals 19 Startup companies founded by our faculty News Mar 24, 2022 | From the Labs Improving stem cell-derived pancreatic cells with genetic engineering HSCRB scientists advance Type 1 diabetes therapy by protecting cells from immune attack and stress Mar 04, 2022 | Awards HSCRB faculty member appointed the inaugural Regenerative Biology Endowed Chair at Boston Children’s Hospital Fernando Camargo recognized for pioneering scientific contributions and outstanding leadership Feb 02, 2022 | From the Labs Different autism risk genes, same effects on brain development HSCRB and Broad researchers use 3D, miniature models of the human brain to advance disease understanding View All News HSCRB A joint department between: Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences and Harvard Medical School Blavatnik Institute Where We Are Map and addresses of HSCRB locations Contact us HSCRB Administration Bauer-Sherman Fairchild Complex 7 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Harvard University Bauer-Sherman Fairchild Complex 7 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard 415 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 Massachusetts General Hospital 185 Cambridge Street Boston, MA 02114-2790 Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research 250 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02139 Center for Life Sciences 3 Blackfan Circle Boston, MA 02115 Helpful Links Faculty News Events Career Opportunities Contact Follow us on Twitter © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Accessibility Privacy Statement Search Menu About Mission and Values Leadership People Diversity, Inclusion, Belonging, and Equity Administration Working Here Faculty and Research Research Direction Our Faculty Education and Training Why HSCRB? Undergraduate Students Graduate Students MS/MBA Program Postdoctoral Fellows Medical Students Resources Core Facilities Laboratory Operations HSCRB Network For Patients News Calendar Career Opportunities Contact Submit Search