Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / EDUCATION / PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine The Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine (BSDM) Program, leading to a PhD degree, is located at Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) and is offered through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University. BSDM was established in 2001 and is one of the programs of Harvard Integrated Life Sciences (HILS). The BSDM program combines faculty from the Department of Developmental Biology and other HSDM departments with faculty from basic science departments at Harvard Medical School, and faculty from the Faculty of Arts and Sciences in Cambridge. The BSDM program offers advanced study in the molecular, supramolecular, cellular, and supracellular processes that provide the intellectual basis for dental medicine. The program offers training of research scientists in the following areas of research: neurobiology, bone biology, tooth development, stem cell biology, oral microbiology, autoimmunity, genetics related to craniofacial development, tumor biology, pain research, inflammation, and developmental biology. The flexible, individualized program of courses taken by the BSDM students is ideal in light of the multi- and interdisciplinary training goal of the program. Students are required to take courses that are also taken by PhD students from other HILS programs and by dental specialty residents who are doing research in fulfillment of requirements for MMSc and DMSc degrees, which increases contacts and exchange of information among students working in a broad range of research areas. Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Applicants Dissertation Topics Financial Aid Standing Committee Registrar Continuing Professional Education Program Director Dr. Francesca Gori Associate Professor of Oral Medicine, Infection, and Immunity Dr. Francesca Gori received her PhD in Biology from the University of Florence, Italy.... Read more about Francesca Gori Harvard Catalyst Profile francesca_gori@hsdm.harvard.edu p: 617-432-1940 Core Faculty Dr. Yingzi Yang Dr. Roland Baron Bjorn Reino Olsen, MD, PhD Dr. Vicki Rosen Contact Leanne Jacobellis Program Administrator leanne_jacobellis@hsdm.harvard.edu Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement