Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / ADMISSIONS / Admissions Overview In keeping with the school’s mission to develop and foster a community of global leaders advancing oral and systemic health, the Harvard School of Dental Medicine seeks to enroll outstanding individuals who will shape the future of research, education, and clinical practice in the field of dental medicine. The admissions process at HSDM for the Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) and the Advanced Graduate Education (AGE) programs reflects the School’s tradition of dedication to excellence. DMD Program The comprehensive admissions process selects a class of 35 well-rounded, team-oriented candidates for a unique program of dental education. The collaborative learning environment at HSDM requires consideration of more than the standard admission criteria. Candidates are evaluated on the entirety of their personal and academic experiences. Disadvantaged candidates or candidates underrepresented in the health professions are encouraged to apply. The DMD program is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA), and as such, meets the requirements for licensure in all fifty states and the District of Columbia.Learn more about the application process. Other Curricular Options Candidates for the DMD degree have the opportunity to earn additional degrees to enhance their preparation for leadership roles. HSDM offers programs in conjunction with the Harvard Business School, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard Kennedy School, and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. An additional application is required for admission to these programs. Advanced Graduate Education The Harvard School of Dental Medicine offers advanced graduate training in the following nationally recognized specialty fields: dental public health, endodontics, geriatric dentistry, implantology, oral and maxillofacial pathology, oral and maxillofacial surgery, oral biology, oral medicine, orthodontics, pediatric dentistry, periodontics, and prosthodontics. Students earn a master of medical sciences (MMSc) or doctor of medical sciences (DMSc) degree in conjunction with a certificate in the field of specialty. The following programs are accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA), and as such, meet the requirements for licensure in all fifty states and the District of Columbia. Dental Public Health Endodontics Orthodontics Oral Medicine Pediatric Dentistry Periodontics Prosthodontics Candidates are considered on the basis of their entire personal, professional, and academic experience and their suitability for this unequalled academic environment. Learn more about the application process. Admissions & Aid Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Annual Copyright Disclosure Clery Act Financial Aid Scholarships Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement