Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / Community Celebrating the Perseverance and Determination of the Class of 2022 May 27, 2022 On the morning of Thursday, May 26 the pageantry and jubilance of Commencement returned to Harvard Yard for the first time since 2019, before the onset of the pandemic. Harvard School of Dental Medicine’s Class of 2022 graduates proudly marched into the Yard and took their places amongst graduates from across the University for Harvard’s 371st Commencement ceremony. “Being here—being together at long last—is frankly moving beyond words,” said President Lawrence Bacow in his welcoming remarks. President Bacow encouraged the graduates... Read more about Celebrating the Perseverance and Determination of the Class of 2022 Illustrating a New Chapter: Student-Artist Discovers Her Place in Pediatric Dentistry May 16, 2022 If it wasn’t for dentistry, Elizabeth Durham, DMD22, probably would have been an illustrator. Growing up in central Massachusetts, she knew from a young age she wanted a career involving art in some way. It wasn’t until her regular checkups with the pediatric dentist where she looked forward to going to the office that she realized she wanted to pursue a career in dentistry. “I started shadowing there from a young age and was... Read more about Illustrating a New Chapter: Student-Artist Discovers Her Place in Pediatric Dentistry Taking the Field: Student-Athlete Finds Her Niche in Oral Surgery May 2, 2022 Grateful. That’s the word Nicole Beck, DMD22, uses to sum up her time at Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM). Growing up just outside of Philadelphia, PA, Beck headed to the west coast to attend the University of California (UC), Berkeley as an undergrad, balancing her academic career between her studies and research in integrative biology, and playing Division I lacrosse. ... Read more about Taking the Field: Student-Athlete Finds Her Niche in Oral Surgery Judith Vance is Awarded the 2022 Sharon P. Clayborne Staff  Diversity Award March 31, 2022 Judith Vance, director of Human Resources, has been selected as the recipient of the 2022 Sharon P. Clayborne Staff Diversity Award which is presented annually to a Harvard Medical School (HMS) or Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) staff member.   The Sharon P. Clayborne Staff Diversity Award and the Harold Amos Faculty Diversity Award were established to recognize HMS/HSDM staff and faculty respectively, who have made significant achievements in moving HMS/HSDM toward being a diverse and inclusive community. ... Read more about Judith Vance is Awarded the 2022 Sharon P. Clayborne Staff  Diversity Award The Perfect Match: HSDM Alumni Love Stories February 14, 2022 For many Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) students, juggling life while in dental school includes attending class, performing research, completing homework, and treating patients. What most don’t expect is to meet the love of their life amidst everything else in their busy schedules. These alumni did just that: fall in love. Whether it was during a school event or a chance meeting in Vanderbilt Hall, each of these stories are unique in their own way. ... Read more about The Perfect Match: HSDM Alumni Love Stories Incorporating Healthcare, Business, and Artistry to Positively Impact the Community January 3, 2022 For Natalie Inoue dentistry is about more than creating great smiles. As an Advanced Graduate Education (AGE) student, it’s a way for her to combine her interests in healthcare, business, and artistry, while positively impacting the community. Pursuing a degree in prosthodontics and in dental education, Inoue has had the opportunity to work on several research projects that will have an impact for patients as well as dental students. Before becoming a resident at Harvard... Read more about Incorporating Healthcare, Business, and Artistry to Positively Impact the Community 2021 Oct 06 CIPCOH and OGCH Webinar: From Classroom to Clinic to the Global Community: Training Non-Traditional Oral Health Providers 12:00pm to 1:00pm Location: Zoom The Center for Integration of Primary Care and Oral Health (CIPCOH) and the HSDM Office of Global and Community Health (OGCH) present a Harvard Worldwide Event From Classroom to Clinic to the Global Community: Training Non-Traditional Oral Health Providers ... Read more about CIPCOH and OGCH Webinar: From Classroom to Clinic to the Global Community: Training Non-Traditional Oral Health Providers Dr. Lama Alabdulaaly Combines Art and Science in Dual Postdoctoral Programs July 12, 2021 Advanced Graduate Education (AGE) student Lama Alabdulaaly, DMSc21, recently completed her advanced degree program in Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology, graduating from Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) this past spring . Now she will continue her educational journey at HSDM by pursuing a certificate in Oral Medicine. While earning her Doctor of Medical Science degree at HSDM, Alabdulaaly taught pre-doctoral courses and published a number of papers in the fields of Oral Pathology, Oral Medicine, and Bone Biology.... Read more about Dr. Lama Alabdulaaly Combines Art and Science in Dual Postdoctoral Programs A Special Send-Off for the Class of 2021 June 1, 2021 On Thursday, May 27, 2021, family, friends, and Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) community members gathered, both near and far, to celebrate the graduation of the Class of 2021. Virtual Commencement and Class Day exercises, combined with a celebratory outdoor send-off at HSDM, provided the backdrop for a special graduation experience for the School’s newest alumni. The festivities began in the morning with the University-wide Commencement ceremony, which featured a video of students from across Harvard’s schools chronicling all of the places from which they studied this... Read more about A Special Send-Off for the Class of 2021 Bringing a Business Background to Oral Healthcare Solutions May 25, 2021 Ashiana Jivraj, DMD21, jokes that she was born in a dental chair. Her mother worked through most of her pregnancy as a general dentist, and Jivraj spent most of her childhood being shuttled to and from the orthodontist’s office. While it would be easy to assume that for these reasons, Jivraj was destined for a career in dentistry, she actually credits a trip to India during her sophomore year of college with her decision to pursue a career in dentistry. “I wound up working in a dental clinic and saw the immense challenge that the social determinants of... Read more about Bringing a Business Background to Oral Healthcare Solutions Charting a Courageous Course in Dentistry May 20, 2021 Prior to his arrival at Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) in 2017, you might have found William “Brennan” Arden, DMSc21, jumping out of helicopters, practicing dentistry on an oil tanker-sized hospital ship, or visiting the farthest corners of the globe to deliver humanitarian aid. As a military dentist with the United States Navy, Arden treated service members and organized humanitarian efforts in countries like Fiji, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, and Vietnam. At HSDM, he pursued an advanced degree in endodontics and served as... Read more about Charting a Courageous Course in Dentistry Making an Impact in Dental Public Health May 11, 2021 For Kobie Gordon, MMSc21, the ability of dentists to transform lives by fixing smiles was a superpower he wanted to possess. “There was a young girl in my neighborhood back home who was born with cleft lip and palate,” Gordon said. “Over the years, she received various dental treatments. By the time she got to university, one could hardly tell that she was born with a cleft lip and palate. Her self-esteem went through the roof. I was always impressed that dentistry was able to make such a profound impact on her life,” he said. This May, when Gordon... Read more about Making an Impact in Dental Public Health 2021 May 05 2021 President’s Innovation Challenge Virtual Awards Celebration 5:00pm to 6:00pm Location: Virtual ... Read more about 2021 President’s Innovation Challenge Virtual Awards Celebration Green Team and Sustainability Committee Inspired by Research Linking Oral Health to the Effects of Climate Change April 21, 2021 In November of 2019, Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) established its first Green Team and Sustainability Committee, bringing together students, faculty, and staff who were committed to exploring ways to make impactful changes to the School’s environmental footprint. The committee came together as a result of a Harvard Worldwide Week presentation by Dr. Donna Hackley, instructor in Oral Health Policy and Epidemiology, which focused on the bi-directional relationship between environmental health and oral health through the lens of health equity. The committee focused on evaluating... Read more about Green Team and Sustainability Committee Inspired by Research Linking Oral Health to the Effects of Climate Change 2021 May 26 Graduate Award Recognition Ceremony 12:00pm to 1:00pm Location: Virtual The Annual Graduate Recognition Ceremony recognizes the achievements of all of our graduates and provides an opportunity to present endowed awards to outstanding... Read more about Graduate Award Recognition Ceremony Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 » last Filter By Alumni Event (1) Continuing Education (2) Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement