Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / STUDENTS / Student News Celebrating the Perseverance and Determination of the Class of 2022 May 27, 2022 On the morning of Thursday, May 26 the pageantry and jubilance of Commencement returned to Harvard Yard for the first time since 2019, before the onset of the pandemic. Harvard School of Dental Medicine’s Class of 2022 graduates proudly marched into the Yard and took their places amongst graduates from across the University for Harvard’s 371st Commencement ceremony. “Being here—being together at long last—is frankly moving beyond words,” said President Lawrence Bacow in his welcoming remarks. President Bacow encouraged the graduates... Read more about Celebrating the Perseverance and Determination of the Class of 2022 Illustrating a New Chapter: Student-Artist Discovers Her Place in Pediatric Dentistry May 16, 2022 If it wasn’t for dentistry, Elizabeth Durham, DMD22, probably would have been an illustrator. Growing up in central Massachusetts, she knew from a young age she wanted a career involving art in some way. It wasn’t until her regular checkups with the pediatric dentist where she looked forward to going to the office that she realized she wanted to pursue a career in dentistry. “I started shadowing there from a young age and was... Read more about Illustrating a New Chapter: Student-Artist Discovers Her Place in Pediatric Dentistry Fulfilling a Promise: Serving with Confidence and Care May 13, 2022 When Natalie Wen, DMD22, graduates with her Doctor of Dental Medicine degree this May, a promise between eighth grade friends will be fulfilled. “My friend’s mom was a dentist and we always said we should become dentists and open our own practice someday,” Wen said. “At an early age I knew that I wanted a career in healthcare.” While both Wen and her childhood friend, who attends dental school in Wen’s home state of Wisconsin, will become dentists, after graduation the two will take different paths in their careers.... Read more about Fulfilling a Promise: Serving with Confidence and Care Final Impressions: Creating a Lasting Impact Through Dentistry and Medicine May 5, 2022 Growing up in St. Louis, Missouri, Jack Harris, DMD22, never thought he would be attending one of the top dental schools – Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM). “HSDM is the most prestigious dental school not only in the U.S., but the world. Me, just a kid from Missouri, would never have imagined that I would be representing the HSDM graduating class of 2022,” said Harris. Harris was extremely active in sports and academics... Read more about Final Impressions: Creating a Lasting Impact Through Dentistry and Medicine Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Student Life Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student News Class of 2022 Commencement Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement