Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Read about the commencement ceremonies that took place May 26, 2022 Harvard Dental Magazine Read stories about HSDM faculty, students, and alumni, as well as recent news and events at HSDM Presenting the 2021 Dean's Report Learn about the extraordinary efforts of our faculty, students, and staff from the past year Studying at HSDM Hear from students about what makes a dental education at Harvard unique Pursuing Groundbreaking Research Learn about faculty research conducted in our laboratories Expanding HSDM's Clinical Practices Cambridge practice now open Research Education Patient Care Student Life Latest News Celebrating the Perseverance and Determination of the Class of 2022 May 27, 2022 On the morning of Thursday, May 26 the pageantry and jubilance of Commencement returned to Harvard Yard for the first time since 2019, before the onset of the pandemic. Harvard School of Dental Medicine’s Class of 2022 graduates proudly marched into the Yard and took their places amongst graduates from across the University for Harvard’s 371st Commencement ceremony. “Being here—being together at long last—is frankly moving beyond words,” said President Lawrence Bacow in his welcoming remarks. President Bacow encouraged the graduates... Read more about Celebrating the Perseverance and Determination of the Class of 2022 Illustrating a New Chapter: Student-Artist Discovers Her Place in Pediatric Dentistry May 16, 2022 If it wasn’t for dentistry, Elizabeth Durham, DMD22, probably would have been an illustrator. Growing up in central Massachusetts, she knew from a young age she wanted a career involving art in some way. It wasn’t until her regular checkups with the pediatric dentist where she looked forward to going to the office that she realized she wanted to pursue a career in dentistry. “I started shadowing there from a young age and was... Read more about Illustrating a New Chapter: Student-Artist Discovers Her Place in Pediatric Dentistry Fulfilling a Promise: Serving with Confidence and Care May 13, 2022 When Natalie Wen, DMD22, graduates with her Doctor of Dental Medicine degree this May, a promise between eighth grade friends will be fulfilled. “My friend’s mom was a dentist and we always said we should become dentists and open our own practice someday,” Wen said. “At an early age I knew that I wanted a career in healthcare.” While both Wen and her childhood friend, who attends dental school in Wen’s home state of Wisconsin, will become dentists, after graduation the two will take different paths in their careers.... Read more about Fulfilling a Promise: Serving with Confidence and Care More news Upcoming Events 2022 Jun 01 HSDM Tea Time Repeats every week every Wednesday until Sat Dec 31 2022 except Wed May 25 2022, Wed Dec 28 2022. 3:00pm to 3:30pm 2022 Jun 03 HSDM / HMS Reunion 2022 (All day) 2022 Jun 06 Continuing Professional Education: Innovative and Effective Team Collaboration in Multidisciplinary Therapy Repeats every day until Wed Jun 08 2022 . 7:30am to 4:00pm 2022 Jun 07 Continuing Professional Education: Innovative and Effective Team Collaboration in Multidisciplinary Therapy 7:30am to 4:00pm More events Featured Event Alumni Day Friday, June 3 Four Seasons Hotel, Boston Reignite the curiosity you enjoyed as a student at HSDM! All alumni are invited to enjoy the Annual Meeting of the HDAA, Alumni Day Symposium, and the Dean's State of the School address, among other activities. Learn more Making Global Health a Collaborative Effort Dr. Brittany Seymour’s Principles of Oral Health course teaches second-year students about global health and disease. In spring of 2018, her class had a unique opportunity to take concepts learned in the classroom and apply them in the field in Costa Rica. Learn more Meet Some of HSDM's Outstanding Faculty As the Director of the Division of Endodontics, Dr. Jennifer Gibbs brings a wealth of experience to the role as an academic endodontist scientist. Learn more Explore the DMD Curriculum The Pathways curriculum fosters independent learning, critical thinking, and lifelong learning skills important to health-care professionals. Flipped classrooms and team-based activities enhance the academic environment for millennial learners. The inclusion of a first-year primary care medical rotation as part of the introduction to clinical dentistry fulfills the school’s vision of transforming dentistry by removing the distinction between oral and systemic health. Learn more Social Media https://www.facebook.com/pages/HSDM-Harvard-School-of-Dental-Medicine/301813674016 https://www.linkedin.com/company/3326612 https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCaEPzNCMj72Rg9Psku-EIZg https://www.instagram.com/harvarddentalmed/ https://twitter.com/dental_harvard 80b61addba90a9c7cdaf40c47cc1c104 Powered by Curator.io Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement