Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / ABOUT / ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES / OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE / HUMAN RESOURCES / Jobs@HSDM Thank you for considering Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) as an employer. It’s a great place to work! HSDM offers a range of engaging and creative work. To learn about our various job opportunities, and ones that align with your skills and interests, please view our job listings for faculty, staff and research fellow opportunities. You can also email Human Resources with any questions. As a University, Harvard provides comprehensive benefits to our employees. To see the benefits and resources available to our community, please visit the University’s Total Rewards page. Student Employment - Questions regarding student employment should be directed to the Office of Dental Education at 617-432-1447. Additional Questions For additional questions about employment, please visit the Harvard University hiring FAQs page or the HSDM Human Resources page. Please note: Harvard normally does not provide H-1B visa sponsorship for administrative positions. We only do so in rare instances in which a position requires highly specialized skills and the University has not been able to find qualified U.S. workers with those skills. Please note that attorneys representing individuals are not authorized to file H-1B petitions on behalf of the University. About HSDM Overview Administrative Offices Office of Administration and Finance Grants Management Human Resources Benefits Community Values Employee Recognition Faculty Services Jobs@HSDM New Employees Information Technology Risk and Compliance Office of Clinical Affairs & Operations Office of Dental Education Office of Development and Alumni Relations Office of Global and Community Health Office of Research Office of the Dean History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Board Leadership Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement