Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / PATIENTS / HARVARD DENTAL CENTER–LONGWOOD / Longwood - Faculty Group Practice The Longwood Faculty Group Practice at the Harvard Dental Center is a multi-specialty group dental practice and an integral part of the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Located in the heart of Boston's Longwood Medical Area, it offers consumers quality dental care delivered by faculty of the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Harvard faculty members teach and conduct state-of-the art research in addition to providing the highest quality dental care. Services The Longwood Faculty Group Practice provides comprehensive care to patients. It combines all aspects of dentistry - oral diagnosis, dental hygiene, radiology, restorative dentistry, implant dentistry, endodontics, periodontics, prosthodontics, oral surgery, and orthodontics - at a single location. Whatever your dental needs, the entire range of dental care services are available at the Longwood Faculty Group Practice. Billing and Payment The Longwood Faculty Group Practice is a fee-for-service dental practice with fees that are comparable to other dental practices in Boston's Metropolitan Area. The Longwood Faculty Group Practice accepts many insurance plans as well as MasterCard, VISA and American Express. Experienced Patient Services Liaisons can help you navigate your treatment plan and coordinate your dental insurance benefits. The Longwood Faculty Group Practice accepts the following insurances: Boston Teacher's Union Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Massachusetts Delta Dental Premier United Healthcare If your insurance is not listed here, you may still be treated in our office, but you will be responsible for processing the claim to your insurance in order to recieve reimbursement. A Patient Services Liaisons can provide you with a claim form for submission to your insurance and help guide you through the process. Harvard Dental Center New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Longwood - Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us Patient Portal The Harvard Dental Center's Patient Portal allows you to complete your medical and dental histories online, prior to your visit. Your information is transmitted safely and directly to our secure server. Register here. Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement