Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / NEWS / Meet Endodontics’ New Program Director Dr. Jennifer Gibbs September 28, 2018 Dr. Jennifer Gibbs joined Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) in September as a member of the faculty and director of Endodontics. She comes to HSDM most recently from NYU College of Dentistry where she was assistant professor of Endodontics. Could you describe the path that led you to the field of endodontics? It was my PhD training in the neurobiology of nociceptors (pain detecting neurons) that led me to endodontics. As a PhD student at University of Texas San Antonio I joined the lab of Ken Hargreaves, who is a neuroscientist and endodontist. I was first exposed to endodontics during this training period. Later I decided to go to dental school, and it was there that I learned that pain interpretation and pain management are essential to the practice of endodontics. It was pretty clear to me then, given my research focus, that endodontics was the specialty for me. I decided to go to UCSF for my endodontic training so that I could pursue post-doctoral research training with Allan Basbaum, a prominent pain scientist, that would overlap with my residency. I then became a faculty member at UCSF, and have remained an academic endodontist scientist since then. What excites you about coming to Harvard and taking the role of director for endodontics? So many things! First, I'm really thrilled about being a part of the community at HSDM. It goes without saying, that being a part of Harvard, arguably the best institution in the world for scholarship, education, and research, is a great honor and beyond exciting. However, it was very striking to me during my interviews that the community at HSDM is uniquely positive, supportive, and humanistic. This is something really special about Harvard that is generally difficult to achieve in academia. My predecessor, Dr. Bob White, has done an incredible job creating a nurturing, and even familial culture within the endodontic division, and I am very excited to be a part of it and continue that tradition. Second, I am quite excited for the opportunity to challenge myself through serving as a leader at HSDM and in endodontics. Although I've had opportunities for leadership in science, this is my first time as a division director, and I'm looking forward to serving in this role. There are a lot of changes happening in endodontics, such as renewed interests in vital pulp and regenerative therapies. I look forward to the challenge of leading Harvard Endodontics during these interesting times. As an educator, what do you feel is important to the learning process? What kind of experience do you hope postdoctoral students will have in the program? I think the right balance of empowerment, curiosity, and humbleness are essential to learning. Technical and clinical confidence will come over time during residency training. I think the most valuable learning happens when students stretch themselves out of their comfort zone and accomplish something they never thought possible. This could be giving an oral presentation for a national conference, publishing a manuscript, or organizing a community outreach event. Now it's not just learning but also personal growth that is accomplished. Curiosity is essential for students to work outside of their comfort zone, and keep asking questions. Humbleness comes when you expand your knowledge base enough to realize how much remains unknown. When this level of learning happens we become humbled by the fact that we have no choice but to be lifelong learners. My goal is for postdoctoral students is first to have ample experiences to become fully confident in their clinical skills. Then, to stretch themselves to accomplish things during the program that they can be proud of for the rest of their lives. Finally, to cultivate curiosity and humbleness during the program so that students leave the program dedicated to the process of life long learning. Our postdoctoral students will leave with the skills needed to be endodontic leaders in whatever capacity that appeals to them. Could you describe your research interests and the work you’ve done as a neuroscientist? The dental pulp is seemingly hard wired for pain, and my research has focused on understanding basic neurobiology of the dental pulp. My research group found that large diameter neurons, that typically convey the sensation are light touch, are more prevalent in dental pulp, while paradoxically, classical pain fibers are underrepresented. The reason for the unique innervation of the pulp is still not clear, and it remains intriguing to me. We also established that nerve injury signaling lasts long after tooth injury, suggesting a potential mechanism for persistent dental pain. This is important because it is still underrecognized that routine dental procedures, like root canal treatment, can produce chronic pain. Complementing this work, we are currently conducting a clinical study measuring pain after endodontic surgery. This will help identify predictive clinical and biological factors associated with poor pain outcomes after surgery. The problem of persistent pain after dental injuries is difficult and important to understand, because the lack of recognition often leads to multiple unnecessary dental procedures. More recently, my group, mostly through the efforts of Dr. Benoit Michot, has investigated the mechanisms by which bacterial toxins such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS) produce pain. This is relevant to many painful oral conditions including pulpitis. We've been working to understand the receptors through which LPS activates pain fibers and found that it depends on two very different types of receptors. First, the classic toll-like receptor TLR4, which is established as the receptor for LPS, is essential to activate neurons. Interestingly, TRPA1, an important ion channel for detecting noxious stimuli on nociceptors, is also required. We think that the TRPA1 channel is a very good target for controlling bacterial mediated pain as occurs in pulpitis. As a newcomer to Boston, what are you hoping to learn or experience here? Moving here from New York City I'm looking forward to the (hopefully) slightly slower pace of life. We found a place to live on a quiet tree lined street and I'm really enjoying this little taste of suburbia. The thing my husband and I are most excited about is having better access to nature here. We want to take our daughter camping and hiking more often and look forward to exploring New England. I also look forward to going to a Celtics game. I love basketball and the Celtics are a great team that I have followed over the years. Although it's way too early to talk about being a fan yet, and my allegiance in basketball is fully with the San Antonio Spurs, let's just say I'm looking forward to seeing where this relationship with the Celtics goes! See also: Faculty, Research Publications Biannual Magazine: Harvard Dental Bulletin Dean's Report: 2021 Dean's Report 2020 Dean's Report 2019 Dean's Report 2018 Dean's Report 2017 Dean's Report 2016 Dean's Report Research Newsletter: HSDM Research Bulletin HSDM in the News 5 Things You Should Know About Dental Coverage and Medicare AARP, April 22, 2022 Celebrating Yankee Ingenuity Chronicle, WCVB-TV, February 8, 2022 How Health and Fitness Trackers Are About to Get a Lot More Granular Wall Street Journal, January 12, 2022 Is It Finally Time for a Medicare Dental Benefit? New England Journal of Medicine, October 20, 2021 Harvard’s Longwood Campus Carefully Readjusts to In-Person Life Harvard Crimson, September 22, 2021 Is Carbonated Water Just as Healthy as Still Water? The New York Times, September 14, 2021 Tooth loss truth: It’s no longer about the tooth fairy Harvard Health Publishing, August 27, 2021 Stress, snacks, missed cleanings: The pandemic hurt our teeth. Here’s what to do. The Washington Post, June 17, 2021 Less Drilling, Less Germ Spray: Dentistry Adapts to the Covid Era The New York Times, February 9, 2021 Harvard Dental School Provides Free Dental Services for Children Amidst Pandemic Harvard Crimson, February 9, 2021 Harvard Dental School to Reopen Former HUHS Dental Clinic Harvard Crimson, December 10, 2020 School of Dental Medicine expands patient care, services Harvard Gazette, December 9, 2020 Voting for Health Care Harvard Medical School, October 6, 2020 Pandemic helps set new dean’s priorities Harvard Gazette, September 8, 2020 Relief and Gratitude Harvard Medical School, July 15, 2020 New dean for School of Dental Medicine Harvard Gazette, April 23, 2020 Harvard dental student finds his niche in community care Harvard Gazette, February 18, 2020 Interim dean of School of Dental Medicine appointed Harvard Gazette, December 20, 2019 Drills, needles, and pain, oh my! Coping with dental anxiety Harvard Health Blog, December 18, 2019 ‘Integrating oral health and primary care can really help the health of this nation and of the world’ Harvard Gazette, December 6, 2019 Does your toothbrush have an app yet? New York Times, October 11, 2019 Local dentist explains why vaping is dangerous for teeth WCVB, News Channel 5, October 7, 2019 A new film claims root canals cause cancer. Don’t believe it, dentists say. Guardian, February 4, 2019 10 dental grads give a nation something to smile about Harvard Gazette, December 7, 2018 Filling gaps in knowledge, care Harvard Gazette, November 13, 2018 Another Hurdle For Former Inmates: Their Teeth The Marshall Project, June 28, 2018 How Receding Gums Can Totally Ruin Your Teeth Prevention.com, June 7, 2018 Uncertain chapter in dental student’s life Harvard Gazette, May 1, 2018 Making global health a collaborative effort Harvard Gazette, March 28, 2018 Dean Donoff: A Dental School Fixture Across Decades Harvard Crimson, February 22, 2018 Dental School Raises $10.1 Million, Passes Campaign Goal Harvard Crimson, February 21, 2018 Study links gum disease to cancer in older women Harvard Women's Health Watch, November 2017 Dentistry: the odd man out KCRW, Second Opinion, September 17, 2017 Dental Schools Add An Urgent Lesson: Think Twice About Prescribing Opioids NPR, All Things Considered, September 8, 2017 Dr. Walter Guralnick, 100; helped launch dental insurance in Mass. Boston Globe, September 7, 2017 Could Your Next Doctor Be Your Dentist? Slate, Aug 28, 2017 Top Dentists 2017: The Best Dentists in Greater Boston Boston Magazine, August, 2017 It’s time to break down the wall between dentistry and medicine STAT, July 17, 2017 Harvard School of Dental Medicine to fête 150 years Harvard Gazette, July 17, 2017 Bones make hormones that communicate with the brain and other organs Science News, June 21, 2017 The Roots of Dentistry at Harvard—HSDM Celebrates 150 Years ADEA Bulletin of Dental Education, May 2017 'What Are These White Spots On My Teeth?!' Women's Health, April 12, 2017 The World’s Top Dental Schools: 2017 Edition Dentistry Today, March 10, 2017 Bridging The Dental Divide: Overcoming Barriers To Integrating Oral Health And Primary Care Health Affairs Blog, January 19, 2017 Meet MGH’s 100-year-old doctor The Boston Globe, January 5, 2017 100-year-old doctor still working at Mass General Hospital WCVB Boston, January 4, 2017 Panel discusses challenges facing older adults seeking oral health care ADA News, October 19, 2016 Give low-income residents access to dental care The Boston Globe, June 7, 2016 Proper dental care should be a human right The Boston Globe, May 24, 2016 Dental schools adopt strategy to combat opioid abuse The Boston Globe, February 11, 2016 Dental Schools To Introduce Training On Opioid Abuse WBUR, February 11, 2016 Northeastern and Harvard Are Combining Dentistry and Primary Care Boston Magazine, January 20, 2016 Researchers launch a new model of healthcare that links nursing and dentistry News @ Northeastern, January 20, 2016 The toothbrush that grows on trees Atlas Obscura, December 23, 2015 Meeting Massachusetts’ urgent dental needs The Boston Globe, November 25, 2015 Fluoride and a physical: Patients see docs at the dentist The Boston Globe (STAT News), November 10, 2015 Narwhals: Their Tusks Act Like Sensors, Not Hunting Spears Nature World News, November 2, 2015 The tusks of narwhals are actually teeth that are inside-out BBC.com, October 26, 2015 ADA hosts celebration of 70 years of water fluoridation ADA News, September 15, 2015 Pulse of Longwood: Commuter of the week The Boston Globe, September 15, 2015 The Dental Divide: Why So Many In N.H. Get Inadequate Care New Hampshire Public Radio, September 7, 2015 Media Contact: Heather Denny Director of Communications Harvard School of Dental Medicine 617-432-2072 Email Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement