Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / ALUMNI & GIVING / The Impact of Giving Periodontology Fellowship Recipient Inspired to Improve Health Disparities February 4, 2022 Corinthia Wilkerson, MMSc24, is passionate about using her dental career to give back to others. The first-year resident in Harvard School of Dental Medicine’s Periodontology program hopes to use her knowledge of periodontology, public health, and health policy to help historically marginalized communities, educating and providing care to treat those with periodontal disease – all while training the next generation of periodontists. Support from HSDM’s Periodontology Fellowship is helping her pursue... Read more about Periodontology Fellowship Recipient Inspired to Improve Health Disparities Scholarship Recipient Inspired to Make a Difference Through Dentistry July 30, 2021 As the DMD Class of 2025 arrives on campus this week, among Harvard School of Dental Medicine’s newest students will be Hoda Mahmoud, DMD25, the School’s first recipient of the Freeman, Grant, Franklin Scholarship. Mahmoud is excited to start her studies at HSDM and make an impact for individuals who are underrepresented in the field of dentistry. She chose Harvard’s DMD program for its unique focus on the integration of oral health and systemic health.... Read more about Scholarship Recipient Inspired to Make a Difference Through Dentistry New Scholarship Represents a ‘Decisive Step Forward’ Toward Greater Equity in Dentistry January 13, 2021 Beginning this year, Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) will be able to offer scholarship support to dental students from underrepresented minority backgrounds with financial need through the Freeman, Grant, Franklin Scholarship. The endowed fund was recently activated with a capstone gift made by Colgate-Palmolive Company. It has also been supported by HSDM alumni and community members dedicated to expanding diversity in dentistry. ... Read more about New Scholarship Represents a ‘Decisive Step Forward’ Toward Greater Equity in Dentistry Fellowship Recipient Pursues Career at the Intersection of Periodontics and Public Health November 30, 2020 Danielle “Danni” Burgess, a first-year resident in Harvard School of Dental Medicine’s Periodontology program, was inspired to pursue a career in dentistry so she could help individuals like her grandmother who struggled with periodontal disease and tooth loss. A new Periodontology Fellowship is helping her take a step closer to her dream. Burgess is the first recipient of the fellowship that was funded last year with the support of the program’s alumni and friends. “I grew up in Seaforth Village, Jamaica. I was raised by my grandmother, who struggled with periodontal disease... Read more about Fellowship Recipient Pursues Career at the Intersection of Periodontics and Public Health HSDM Alumna Reflects on Progress and Potential to Address Racial Inequities November 10, 2020 Fifty years ago, Dolores Mercedes Franklin, DMD74, PD76, became the first woman of color to attend Harvard School of Dental Medicine and one of the first five women to earn a DMD degree. A trailblazer throughout her life, Franklin, a global leader in oral health policy, achieved many firsts in her career, paving the way for future generations of women and individuals of color in dentistry. Today, she sees a pressing need to address racial inequities in oral health care in light of COVID-19. She... Read more about HSDM Alumna Reflects on Progress and Potential to Address Racial Inequities Donoff Scholars DMD Scholarship Reaches $1 Million Goal August 17, 2020 Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) recently reached a goal of raising $1 million in support of the Donoff Scholars DMD Scholarship. Created in recognition of R. Bruce Donoff, DMD67, MD73, and his 28 years of dedication, innovation, and leadership as Dean of HSDM, the Scholarship will support future generations of HSDM pre-doctoral students who are seeking innovative careers in dentistry by pursuing a second Harvard graduate degree. The scholarship aims to strengthen the School’s mission of developing and fostering a community of global leaders dedicated to improving human health by... Read more about Donoff Scholars DMD Scholarship Reaches $1 Million Goal Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections Ways to Give Honor Roll of Donors Corporation and Foundation Partnerships The Impact of Giving Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement