Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / STUDENTS / CLASS OF 2022 COMMENCEMENT / Message from Dean Giannobile Dear Class of 2022 Graduates, You’ve reached the culmination of years of hard work and perseverance and we are so proud of your achievements! You have shown great perseverance throughout your time at HSDM, and even more so during the pandemic as you navigated numerous challenges. I greatly admire your patience, adaptability, and positivity. These qualities will serve you well as healthcare providers. You all have a very bright future ahead! As you take your next steps in the profession, you will go on to residencies, clinical practices, and other exciting opportunities across the country. Your diverse interests and career paths have a common thread—you care deeply for your patients and want to make a difference in their lives. This is demonstrated in the skilled clinicians and compassionate caregivers you have become. I know you will go on to make your mark in dental medicine and continue to propel the field forward. I hope your time at HSDM has been fulfilling both academically and personally. As an alumnus, I can assure you that the classmates and mentors you’ve met here will remain lifelong friends and colleagues. You now join a distinguished group of alumni who are leaders in the profession, devoted to making a difference in the lives of others. I hope you will hold fond memories of the School, and stay in touch with us and with each other. On behalf of the entire HSDM community, we can’t wait to see where your dreams will take you. Best wishes, William V. Giannobile, DDS, DMSc96, PD96 Dean Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Student Life Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student News Class of 2022 Commencement 2022 Commencement Award Recipients Graduate Profiles Message from Dean Giannobile Welcome New Alumni Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement