Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / ABOUT / Administrative Offices Office of Administration and Finance This office manages the following areas in support of the School’s mission: Human Resources, Facilities, Strategic Planning, Information Technology, Budgeting, Grants Management, and Capital Planning. Grants Management Grants Management oversees all aspects of research administration, Pre-Award and Post-Award, and enforces all University research administration policies and practices for the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Human Resources Human Resources directs the administration of all University human resources policies and practices for the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Office of Clinical Affairs The Office of Clinical Affairs is responsible for the oversight and management of all clinical practices in the Harvard Dental Center, including quality improvement, credentialing, infection control, OSHA and HIPAA regulatory compliance, patient satisfaction, financial and operational management, and formulary and materials management. Office of the Dean The Office of the Dean provides the leadership for the School’s mission and strategic plan. Our goal is to create an environment that inspires its faculty to be outstanding teachers, innovative researchers, and devoted mentors. Office of Dental Education The Office of Dental Education (ODE) oversees all educational programs within the School, including predoctoral education, advanced graduate education, and continuing education. Admissions Admissions serves as the point of contact for all activities related to acceptance and enrollment in HSDM’s DMD and Advanced Graduate Education programs. Financial Aid Financial Aid is committed to helping students identify the resources they need to obtain a Harvard Dental education. Registrar The Registrar serves as custodian for the official academic records of all students, from matriculation through degree conferral. The office maintains the HSDM academic calendar, provides information about courses, registers students for classes, and administers the academic policies of the School. Student Affairs Student Affairs serves as the point of contact for all aspects of student life and wellness. The Director oversees all student activities, organizations, memberships, student government, student advising, handling of sensitive concerns, and ensures compliance with the policies stated in the student handbook. The Director also serves as the local Title IX Resource Coordinator and a liaison to the HMS/HSDM Director of Disability Services. Office of Development and Alumni Relations The Office of Development and Alumni Relations is dedicated to cultivating and stewarding lifelong partnerships with the alumni community, Harvard faculty, corporations, foundations, and kind friends. The Office furthers the mission of HSDM by showcasing the School through innovative communications, alumni engagement, and by providing financial resources for the School's initiatives, programs, and scholarships. Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging The Office of Diversity and Inclusion promotes increased recruitment, retention, and advancement of underrepresented minority students and faculty at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Office of Global and Community Health The Office of Global and Community Health is responsible for developing, promoting, and sustaining initiatives in oral public health domestically and around the globe. Office of Research The Office of Research is responsible for oversight of all research activities at HSDM. The Office of Research produces a regular Research Bulletin, which contains information about HSDM faculty research and publications, as well as awards and honors for faculty and students. About HSDM Overview Administrative Offices Office of Administration and Finance Office of Clinical Affairs & Operations Office of Dental Education Office of Development and Alumni Relations Office of Global and Community Health Office of Research Office of the Dean History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Board Leadership Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement