Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / NEWS / Making Global Health a Collaborative Effort March 29, 2018 Not all health care is administered by physicians. Not all dental care is received in a reclining white chair. And when it comes to coverage, the U.S. does not always lead the way. Rather, dental care — like health care — is a global issue, and this year, three Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) students got a chance to take that lesson both to heart and into the field. “Some of the most prevalent diseases in the world are oral diseases,” with cavities affecting an estimated 4 billion people worldwide — far more common than cancer, diabetes, and even heart disease, said Brittany Seymour, MPH11, assistant professor of oral health policy and epidemiology at the HSDM. “At the same time, they are the most neglected.” Seymour’s “Principles of Oral Health” teaches second-year students about global health and disease. This year, her class had a unique opportunity to take concepts learned in the schoolroom and apply them in the field. Over spring break, Kristin Sweeney, Ryan Lisann, and David Danesh traveled with Seymour to southern Costa Rica, where they were immersed in a one-week extension course co-developed by Seymour and Carlos Faerron of the Interamerican Center for Global Health (CISG). The class gives students a firsthand look at some of the most pressing challenges in global health, such as the effects of environmental degradation, migrations and changing demographics, and nutritional and epidemiological transitions. “It’s one thing to learn about topics in the class and be far removed from them, but it’s a totally different thing to have space to dive in and learn about these things for a week, where they are happening,” Sweeney said. Through interactive workshops and field visits, Sweeney, Lisann, and Danesh learned about oral health care from the perspective of migrant workers in the palm oil fields on the Panama border and indigenous populations in the Ngäbe-Buglé de Coto Brus territory. They spoke with health professionals and community leaders who work to create culturally sensitive care that blends modern medicine with traditional practices. Participants in the program included Jose Andrés Alvarado (from left), University of Costa Rica (UCR), David Danesh, Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM), Andrew Siaw-Asamoah, Yale University, Brittany Seymour, assistant professor of oral health policy and epidemiology at HSDM, Ryan Lisann HSDM, Kristin Sweeney, HSDM, Irene Brenes, UCR, Alejandro Quesada Molina, UCR, and Danny Camacho, UCR. “You can’t really appreciate what these communities are experiencing without being there and meeting some of the community leaders. One of the biggest takeaways for me is the application of the social determinants of health,” Lisann said. “There are all these factors that tie into someone’s health status, whether it’s the distance they need to walk to a health center, or traditional cultural practices they learned from a young age that might conflict with Westernized medicine. Getting an idea of all these [determinants] and how they play into everyday health has shaped my perspective on health and medicine,” he added. Sweeney drew parallels between experiences in Costa Rica and the U.S. “I’ve worked with the Wampanoag community in Martha’s Vineyard,” she said. “The problems they face are often very similar to the problems underserved communities in Costa Rica are facing. There is a serious need to address the lack of care and attention we are giving these communities in the U.S. as well.” The Harvard students were paired with dental students from the University of Costa Rica. Together they visited rural hospitals and ministries of health and learned about the country’s health systems. Afterward they worked in teams to strategize and create solutions to challenges they saw in the field. “Through the course I learned how collaborative global health is. Global health is not done in a vacuum. Seeing that firsthand and connecting with the University of Costa Rica dental students, we both learned so much from each other,” said Danesh. Unlike in the U.S., Costa Rica’s universal health care system includes dental care as an integral part of medical coverage. Additionally, in Costa Rica oral health records are included in patient’s medical files, while in the U.S. they are kept separate. “I was blown away by the Costa Rican health system. How well organized, how well-planned, how well-intentioned, how well-thought out the entire health system is really impressed me,” Danesh said. Danesh is a National Health Service Corps scholar whose dental education is being funded by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). In return, after graduating he will work as a dentist for four years in a medically underserved area of the U.S. “This experience has definitely affirmed a lot of my goals, motivations, and aspirations, and made me think broader too,” Danesh said. “I have a responsibility to help as many people as I can because there’s so much need out there. We can do better both in the U.S. and globally in improving health care and oral health.” “The students learned a tremendous amount about the importance of true community partnership and collaboration, and not just what that looks like in theory, what it looks like in action and how challenging it can be.” Seymour said. “They see themselves as global citizens. … I think they’ve gained the perspective that what they learned here not only can benefit communities around the world, but can also be applied to challenges faced at home in the U.S.” Harvard dental students Kristin Sweeney (left) and Ryan Lisann walk with a young child from the indigenous territory of Ngäbe-Buglé de Coto Brus, Costa Rica. Initial funding for the course was provided by the Abundance Foundation, a nonprofit focused on empowering communities led by Harvard alumnus Stephen Kahn. Building on the success of this year’s course, Seymour hopes to expand it next year and possibly partner with other Harvard Schools to include more students interested in global health. “To be challenged to think about these topics was really important at this point in my dental training,” said Sweeney. “This week really bolstered my toolbox of questions to ask, and perspectives to think about. It will give me a greater sense of humility and tools to use to hopefully make an impact wherever I am, and to use my dental career to serve others.” See also: Global and Community Health, Students Publications Biannual Magazine: Harvard Dental Bulletin Dean's Report: 2021 Dean's Report 2020 Dean's Report 2019 Dean's Report 2018 Dean's Report 2017 Dean's Report 2016 Dean's Report Research Newsletter: HSDM Research Bulletin HSDM in the News 5 Things You Should Know About Dental Coverage and Medicare AARP, April 22, 2022 Celebrating Yankee Ingenuity Chronicle, WCVB-TV, February 8, 2022 How Health and Fitness Trackers Are About to Get a Lot More Granular Wall Street Journal, January 12, 2022 Is It Finally Time for a Medicare Dental Benefit? New England Journal of Medicine, October 20, 2021 Harvard’s Longwood Campus Carefully Readjusts to In-Person Life Harvard Crimson, September 22, 2021 Is Carbonated Water Just as Healthy as Still Water? The New York Times, September 14, 2021 Tooth loss truth: It’s no longer about the tooth fairy Harvard Health Publishing, August 27, 2021 Stress, snacks, missed cleanings: The pandemic hurt our teeth. Here’s what to do. The Washington Post, June 17, 2021 Less Drilling, Less Germ Spray: Dentistry Adapts to the Covid Era The New York Times, February 9, 2021 Harvard Dental School Provides Free Dental Services for Children Amidst Pandemic Harvard Crimson, February 9, 2021 Harvard Dental School to Reopen Former HUHS Dental Clinic Harvard Crimson, December 10, 2020 School of Dental Medicine expands patient care, services Harvard Gazette, December 9, 2020 Voting for Health Care Harvard Medical School, October 6, 2020 Pandemic helps set new dean’s priorities Harvard Gazette, September 8, 2020 Relief and Gratitude Harvard Medical School, July 15, 2020 New dean for School of Dental Medicine Harvard Gazette, April 23, 2020 Harvard dental student finds his niche in community care Harvard Gazette, February 18, 2020 Interim dean of School of Dental Medicine appointed Harvard Gazette, December 20, 2019 Drills, needles, and pain, oh my! Coping with dental anxiety Harvard Health Blog, December 18, 2019 ‘Integrating oral health and primary care can really help the health of this nation and of the world’ Harvard Gazette, December 6, 2019 Does your toothbrush have an app yet? New York Times, October 11, 2019 Local dentist explains why vaping is dangerous for teeth WCVB, News Channel 5, October 7, 2019 A new film claims root canals cause cancer. Don’t believe it, dentists say. Guardian, February 4, 2019 10 dental grads give a nation something to smile about Harvard Gazette, December 7, 2018 Filling gaps in knowledge, care Harvard Gazette, November 13, 2018 Another Hurdle For Former Inmates: Their Teeth The Marshall Project, June 28, 2018 How Receding Gums Can Totally Ruin Your Teeth Prevention.com, June 7, 2018 Uncertain chapter in dental student’s life Harvard Gazette, May 1, 2018 Making global health a collaborative effort Harvard Gazette, March 28, 2018 Dean Donoff: A Dental School Fixture Across Decades Harvard Crimson, February 22, 2018 Dental School Raises $10.1 Million, Passes Campaign Goal Harvard Crimson, February 21, 2018 Study links gum disease to cancer in older women Harvard Women's Health Watch, November 2017 Dentistry: the odd man out KCRW, Second Opinion, September 17, 2017 Dental Schools Add An Urgent Lesson: Think Twice About Prescribing Opioids NPR, All Things Considered, September 8, 2017 Dr. Walter Guralnick, 100; helped launch dental insurance in Mass. Boston Globe, September 7, 2017 Could Your Next Doctor Be Your Dentist? Slate, Aug 28, 2017 Top Dentists 2017: The Best Dentists in Greater Boston Boston Magazine, August, 2017 It’s time to break down the wall between dentistry and medicine STAT, July 17, 2017 Harvard School of Dental Medicine to fête 150 years Harvard Gazette, July 17, 2017 Bones make hormones that communicate with the brain and other organs Science News, June 21, 2017 The Roots of Dentistry at Harvard—HSDM Celebrates 150 Years ADEA Bulletin of Dental Education, May 2017 'What Are These White Spots On My Teeth?!' Women's Health, April 12, 2017 The World’s Top Dental Schools: 2017 Edition Dentistry Today, March 10, 2017 Bridging The Dental Divide: Overcoming Barriers To Integrating Oral Health And Primary Care Health Affairs Blog, January 19, 2017 Meet MGH’s 100-year-old doctor The Boston Globe, January 5, 2017 100-year-old doctor still working at Mass General Hospital WCVB Boston, January 4, 2017 Panel discusses challenges facing older adults seeking oral health care ADA News, October 19, 2016 Give low-income residents access to dental care The Boston Globe, June 7, 2016 Proper dental care should be a human right The Boston Globe, May 24, 2016 Dental schools adopt strategy to combat opioid abuse The Boston Globe, February 11, 2016 Dental Schools To Introduce Training On Opioid Abuse WBUR, February 11, 2016 Northeastern and Harvard Are Combining Dentistry and Primary Care Boston Magazine, January 20, 2016 Researchers launch a new model of healthcare that links nursing and dentistry News @ Northeastern, January 20, 2016 The toothbrush that grows on trees Atlas Obscura, December 23, 2015 Meeting Massachusetts’ urgent dental needs The Boston Globe, November 25, 2015 Fluoride and a physical: Patients see docs at the dentist The Boston Globe (STAT News), November 10, 2015 Narwhals: Their Tusks Act Like Sensors, Not Hunting Spears Nature World News, November 2, 2015 The tusks of narwhals are actually teeth that are inside-out BBC.com, October 26, 2015 ADA hosts celebration of 70 years of water fluoridation ADA News, September 15, 2015 Pulse of Longwood: Commuter of the week The Boston Globe, September 15, 2015 The Dental Divide: Why So Many In N.H. Get Inadequate Care New Hampshire Public Radio, September 7, 2015 Media Contact: Heather Denny Director of Communications Harvard School of Dental Medicine 617-432-2072 Email Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement