Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections Our dynamic community of more than 2,600 alumni around the globe are addressing complex world problems through dental medicine, academics, and research. The Office of Development and Alumni Relations and the Harvard Dental Alumni Association (HDAA) work in partnership to keep alumni connected with one another, with the School, and with the University. Read more. Impact of Giving Your generosity spreads improved human health into the future, fostering tomorrow's leaders in oral health care, education and service. Learn more about gifts to HSDM that have supported student scholarships, fellowships, and unrestricted funds that support core needs. Read more. Ways to Give There are many ways to support HSDM and ensure its academic success and continued scholarly rigor. Whether you invest in the School through the annual fund, an endowed fund to perpetuate the name of a loved one, a life income, or your estate plans, your participation enhances the School’s stature in the world and we thank you. Read more. Corporate and Foundation Partners The generosity of corporate sponsors and foundations supports important research and technology, and makes it possible for the School to pursue initiatives in the areas of integrating oral health and primary care. Read more Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement