Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / RESEARCH / Clinical Researchers John D. Da Silva , DMD, MPH, ScM, Vice Dean; Associate Professor, Department of Restorative Dentistry and Biomaterials Sciences; Medical Director, Harvard Dental Center Dr. Da Silva's clinical research interests include translational research in optics, and color science in dentistry. He is also involved with the Children’s Hospital Center for Adolescent Substance Abuse Research to develop an Internet/Intranet-based motivational enhancement therapy (iMET) program for adolescents that can be used in dental and medical offices to target tobacco, alcohol, and drug use. German Gallucci , Dr. med. dent., PhD, Department Chair and Associate Professor of Restorative Dentistry; Director, Division of Regenerative and Implant Sciences Dr. Gallucci actively participates in clinical and translational research related to Fixed Prosthodontics, Oral Implantology, and applied Digital Dental Technology. He is the Principal Investigator (PI) of the Oral Implantology clinical research team in the Division of Regenerative and Implant Sciences at HSDM. Arthur Garvey, Associate Professor of Oral Health Policy and Epidemiology Dr. Garvey has made major contributions to efforts in the fields of health promotion and disease prevention. His interests are in the development of new treatments to help addicted smokers quit smoking and maintain permanent smoking abstinence. Donald B. Giddon , DMD, PhD, Professor of Developmental Biology, Emeritus Dr. Giddon’s research involves the psychophysical determination of the anthropometric bases of subjective judgments of facial appearance. Other areas of research as a biostatistician include lateralization of pain, other pathology, and perception; and the ratio of dental morphology to the second and fourth digit length. A new educational project under way includes changing the designation of dentist to oral physician and reevaluating the training of postgraduate master’s- and doctoral-degree students. David Kim, DMD, DMSc, Associate Professor of Oral Medicine, Infection and Immunity Dr. Kim’s clinical and research interests have been on the use of innovative concepts, technologies and biomaterials to enhance intraoral soft and hard tissue formation, especially by incorporating the tissue engineering concept to repair and regenerate soft and hard tissue volume for patients requiring dental implants to replace missing teeth. He focuses on clinical trials in bone and soft tissue regeneration, tissue engineering, and dental implant therapies. Shigemi Ishikawa Nagai , PhD, DDS, MSD, Associate Professor of Oral Medicine, Infection and Immunity The Nagai Lab combines basic science with clinical and developmental research. Research is focused on color science, soft tissue esthetics in dental implants, and early caries detection, as well as a project involving osteoinductive peptides found by a new biopanning method. Development of Early Caries Detection System The Nagai Lab has been dedicated to the development of an early caries detection system using near-infrared fluorescence. The goal of this study is to put an end to “Drill, Fill and Bill” dentistry and to enhance natural healing by remineralization. Our preliminary in vitro studies confirm that the sensitivity of this new system is as high as three times that of dental radiography. Also, the odds of underestimation errors (i.e. missing early caries) is reduced by 97% in comparison to dental radiography. The current stage of the development is clinical assessment of the feasibility of a prototype device. Color Science in Dentistry A dental spectrophotometer was developed in collaboration with the Olympus Corporation. This is the only dental spectrophotometer providing both numerical data and natural images. Clinical research has been done at HSDM resulting in the publication of several papers. The next step will be a multi center study employing this dental spectrophotometer aimed at developing a computer color matching system for dental ceramic restorations. Application of Novel Osteoinductive Peptides for Dental Implants Novel peptides screened by a new biopaning system will be assessed for osteoinduction ability for a use with titanium dental implants. Soft Tissue Esthetics at Implant Sites Colored neck dental implants have been developed with supported from the ITI Research Foundation between 2003-2008. These implants improve the grayish color shine through effects on gingival tissue in anterior dental implant sites. Dental Center Research Projects The Harvard Dental Center has a number of ongoing research projects. Patients are currently invited to participate the following clinical research projects : Dental Vibe Study, Dr. Jeffrey Shaefer, Primary Investigator Dexcel Peri-implantitis Treatment Study, Dr. David Kim, Primary Investigator Teledentistry, Dr. Lisa Thompson, Primary Investigator Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement