Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / Research Research Overview Our basic science research programs leverage the School's scientific strengths, focusing on the areas of skeletal biology and the pathology of bones, joints, vascular and connective tissues. HSDM’s long-term goal is to be at the forefront of research into the cause and cure for diseases of bone and craniofacial soft tissues. Read more. Research Laboratories Our basic science laboratories are led by key scientists who complement each other, as well as drive the research strategy of HSDM. Read more. Clinical Researchers Our clinical researchers focus on a wide range of topics that have great impact in dental clinical practice, such as studying color science in dentistry, looking at disease prevention, and exploring new methods in oral implantology. Read more. Health Services Research The health services research conducted at HSDM focuses on creating national models for integrated, inter-professional care in clinical practice that incorporates oral health in overall health. Read more. Research Bulletins The Office of Research regularly publishes the HSDM Research Bulletin, which includes the latest news on HSDM research projects, awards, publications, and more. Read more. Research Guidebooks Find guidebooks from the Office of Research with policies, deadlines, and information for DMD, MMSc and DMSc programs. Read more. Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement