Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / Students Health and Wellbeing Students can access a wide range of services focused on physical, spiritual, and mental health and wellbeing. Read more. Academic Support Learn about the educational resources available at HSDM, including academic advising, scholarly writing guides, and Academic Societies. Read more. Safety and Title IX HSDM is responsible for the safety of all our students. Find information about support, safety, and reporting misconduct or harassment. Read more. Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Read the Student Handbook, and learn about policies related to student research, attendance, travel, rights and responsibilities. Read more. Student Life Beyond the classroom, we encourage students to actively participate in organizations that support their extracurricular interests and future careers. Read more Student News Find the latest news about student activities, achievements and events. Read more Disability Services The Harvard School of Dental Medicine is dedicated to providing students with appropriate support and services. Read more. Housing Full-time Harvard graduate students, faculty, and employees are eligible to apply for Harvard University housing. Read more. Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement