Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / STUDENTS / Class of 2022 Commencement 2022 Commencement Ceremonies Harvard University and Harvard School of Dental Medicine will hold graduation ceremonies on Thursday, May 26, 2022. University-Wide Commencement Ceremony Thursday, May 26 | Harvard Yard President Bacow will confer degrees on graduates of all Harvard University schools. Morning exercises are held rain or shine in Tercentenary Theatre and will be livestreamed on the Harvard home page. Tickets: Each graduate can get 2 guest tickets to the Gates in Harvard Yard which will open at 6:45 a.m. for guest seating in Tercentenary Theatre, Seating is limited and not guaranteed. Accessibility: For the Commencement Exercises in Cambridge, MA, there is reserved, accessible seating section in Tercentenary Theater. For more detailed information on accessibility at the Commencement Exercises in Cambridge visit the University accessibility website. Shuttle: Shuttle bus service between the Longwood and Cambridge will be available throughout the day to graduates and their families. No ticket is required to use the shuttle. Shuttle bus schedule to follow. Visit the University website for more details about Harvard 2022 Graduation activities. Class Day Lunch Thursday, May 26, 11:30am | HMS Quad Class of 2022 DMD/MD graduates are invited to a class day lunch reception. Class Day Ceremony Thursday, May 26, 2:00pm | HMS Quad Class of 2022 DMD/MD graduates will receive their diplomas during the Class Day ceremony. Friends and family of HMS and HSDM graduates can view a livestream of the Class Day ceremony (page goes live on the day of the ceremony). A video recording of the ceremony and speeches will be posted following the event. Class Day Speaker: Joia Mukherjee, Chief Medical Officer, Partners in Health, and associate professor, Harvard Medical School AGE Program Banquets Each advanced graduate program at HSDM offers a program-specific banquet to recognize the graduates of their program. For details about these events, please contact the relevant Department Administrator or Program Director. Information about specific timelines and other details are distributed directly to graduating students. Use #HSDM2022 to share your celebrations on social media. Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Student Life Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student News Class of 2022 Commencement 2022 Commencement Award Recipients Graduate Profiles Message from Dean Giannobile Welcome New Alumni Related Links Information for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Commencement Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement