Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / Students Celebrating the Perseverance and Determination of the Class of 2022 May 27, 2022 On the morning of Thursday, May 26 the pageantry and jubilance of Commencement returned to Harvard Yard for the first time since 2019, before the onset of the pandemic. Harvard School of Dental Medicine’s Class of 2022 graduates proudly marched into the Yard and took their places amongst graduates from across the University for Harvard’s 371st Commencement ceremony. “Being here—being together at long last—is frankly moving beyond words,” said President Lawrence Bacow in his welcoming remarks. President Bacow encouraged the graduates... Read more about Celebrating the Perseverance and Determination of the Class of 2022 Illustrating a New Chapter: Student-Artist Discovers Her Place in Pediatric Dentistry May 16, 2022 If it wasn’t for dentistry, Elizabeth Durham, DMD22, probably would have been an illustrator. Growing up in central Massachusetts, she knew from a young age she wanted a career involving art in some way. It wasn’t until her regular checkups with the pediatric dentist where she looked forward to going to the office that she realized she wanted to pursue a career in dentistry. “I started shadowing there from a young age and was... Read more about Illustrating a New Chapter: Student-Artist Discovers Her Place in Pediatric Dentistry Fulfilling a Promise: Serving with Confidence and Care May 13, 2022 When Natalie Wen, DMD22, graduates with her Doctor of Dental Medicine degree this May, a promise between eighth grade friends will be fulfilled. “My friend’s mom was a dentist and we always said we should become dentists and open our own practice someday,” Wen said. “At an early age I knew that I wanted a career in healthcare.” While both Wen and her childhood friend, who attends dental school in Wen’s home state of Wisconsin, will become dentists, after graduation the two will take different paths in their careers.... Read more about Fulfilling a Promise: Serving with Confidence and Care Final Impressions: Creating a Lasting Impact Through Dentistry and Medicine May 5, 2022 Growing up in St. Louis, Missouri, Jack Harris, DMD22, never thought he would be attending one of the top dental schools – Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM). “HSDM is the most prestigious dental school not only in the U.S., but the world. Me, just a kid from Missouri, would never have imagined that I would be representing the HSDM graduating class of 2022,” said Harris. Harris was extremely active in sports and academics... Read more about Final Impressions: Creating a Lasting Impact Through Dentistry and Medicine Finding the Right Chemistry: National Healthcare Scholar Finds His Calling in Community Health May 10, 2022 Michael Cevallos, DMD22, might have become a chemist rather than a dentist, if not for an experience in a pediatric dental practice that changed his plans. As an undergraduate at the University of Richmond, he majored in Chemistry with the full intention of becoming a chemical engineer. In his spare time, he tutored and mentored at-risk middle school youth in Richmond Public Schools. He gravitated to dentistry after shadowing his aunt, a pediatric dentist, and realizing the positive impact he enjoyed as a tutor he could have improving the lives of patients. ... Read more about Finding the Right Chemistry: National Healthcare Scholar Finds His Calling in Community Health Taking the Field: Student-Athlete Finds Her Niche in Oral Surgery May 2, 2022 Grateful. That’s the word Nicole Beck, DMD22, uses to sum up her time at Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM). Growing up just outside of Philadelphia, PA, Beck headed to the west coast to attend the University of California (UC), Berkeley as an undergrad, balancing her academic career between her studies and research in integrative biology, and playing Division I lacrosse. ... Read more about Taking the Field: Student-Athlete Finds Her Niche in Oral Surgery HSDM Students Unveil Scholarly Work at Annual Research Day April 8, 2022 Students, faculty, and staff recently participated in the annual Student Research Day event at Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM). This year’s event, held on April 5, provided students from the Class of 2022 with the opportunity to showcase their research in poster sessions and learn about the work of their peers. Sixty graduating students presented their scholarly work. “The energy was palpable as we hosted the first in-person Student Research Day since 2019,” said Dawn DeCosta, director of Research Operations, who helped organize the event.... Read more about HSDM Students Unveil Scholarly Work at Annual Research Day 2022 May 25 Graduation Recognition Program 1:00pm Location: Armenise Amphitheater All Class of 2022 DMD and AGE graduates and guests are invited to the Graduate Recognition Ceremony. Reception to follow at 2pm in the REB Lobby. 2022 Honorees DMD and AGE Student Award Recipients Distinguished Junior and Senior Faculty...Read more about Graduation Recognition Program 2022 May 12 Graduation Celebration at Fenway Park 6:00pm to 8:00pm Location: 4 Jersey St, Boston, MA 02215 Delivering Care to Future Generations February 16, 2022 Nearly 50 smiling patients received care at Harvard School of Dental Medicine’s recent Give Kids a Smile (GKAS) event. The event, held annually in February during Children’s Dental Health Month, offers free dental care to children ages one to 17. Student organizers Stephanie Yang, DMD24, and Kadriye Hargett, DMD24, planned and promoted this year’s event working closely with faculty and student volunteers. Although COVID-19... Read more about Delivering Care to Future Generations Periodontology Fellowship Recipient Inspired to Improve Health Disparities February 4, 2022 Corinthia Wilkerson, MMSc24, is passionate about using her dental career to give back to others. The first-year resident in Harvard School of Dental Medicine’s Periodontology program hopes to use her knowledge of periodontology, public health, and health policy to help historically marginalized communities, educating and providing care to treat those with periodontal disease – all while training the next generation of periodontists. Support from HSDM’s Periodontology Fellowship is helping her pursue... Read more about Periodontology Fellowship Recipient Inspired to Improve Health Disparities Incorporating Healthcare, Business, and Artistry to Positively Impact the Community January 3, 2022 For Natalie Inoue dentistry is about more than creating great smiles. As an Advanced Graduate Education (AGE) student, it’s a way for her to combine her interests in healthcare, business, and artistry, while positively impacting the community. Pursuing a degree in prosthodontics and in dental education, Inoue has had the opportunity to work on several research projects that will have an impact for patients as well as dental students. Before becoming a resident at Harvard... Read more about Incorporating Healthcare, Business, and Artistry to Positively Impact the Community 2021 Dec 14 Wampanoag Outreach Group Lunch and Learn 12:00pm to 12:45pm Location: REB Auditorium Join the Wampanoag Outreach Group for a "Lunch and Learn" in the belated celebration of Native American Heritage Month in November. Members of the Wampanoag Outreach Group will give a presentation about the history of the Wampanoag tribe, their relation with Harvard University, and Wampanoag Outreach Group's past, present and future work and mission. The meeting will be held on Tuesday, December 14th from 12:00-12:45 PM in the REB Auditorium. A limited number of grab-and-go lunches will be provided. Please fill out the ... Read more about Wampanoag Outreach Group Lunch and Learn 2022 May 26 Class of 2022 Commencement and Class Day (All day) Location: Harvard Yard and HMS Quad Class of 2022, congratulations! We look forward to celebrating your achievements with you. For more information, visit our Class of 2022 commencement page. Read more about Class of 2022 Commencement and Class Day Serving Those Who Served Our Country October 4, 2021 On Saturday October 2, 2021, Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) opened its doors to veterans for free dental care and consultations during the School’s first Give Veterans a Smile event. Similar to HSDM’s annual Give Kids a Smile event, the event was organized by dental students with the goal of providing care to the community and addressing gaps in veterans’ access to oral healthcare. Over 30 predoctoral students volunteered for the event along with residents from AGE specialty programs, faculty, and Harvard Dental Center staff members. Veterans from several branches of... Read more about Serving Those Who Served Our Country Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 » last Filter By Alumni Event (1) Continuing Education (2) Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement