Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / Admissions & Aid Admissions Overview In keeping with our mission to develop and foster a community of global leaders advancing oral and systemic health, the Harvard School of Dental Medicine seeks to enroll outstanding individuals who will shape the future of research, education, and clinical practice in the field of dental medicine. Read more. DMD Applicants The Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) program at HSDM offers an unparalleled opportunity to draw on the resources of a world-renowned University and medical center. At its heart, the program considers dentistry a specialty of medicine. Read more. AGE Applicants Advanced Graduate Education (AGE) programs at HSDM lead to a master of medical sciences (MMSc) or doctor of medical sciences (DMSc) degree, as well as a certificate in a specialty field. Candidates are considered on the basis of their entire personal, professional, and academic experience and their suitability for this unequalled academic environment. Read more. Financial Aid The Harvard School of Dental Medicine is committed to helping students identify the resources they need to obtain a Harvard Dental education. The School considers the financing of a student’s education to be a commitment involving the student, his or her family—including parents and spouse—and the School. Read more. Scholarships The Harvard School of Dental Medicine offers several endowed scholarships for postdoctoral (advanced graduate education) and predoctoral (DMD) students at the School. Each scholarship has its own purpose and criteria, and the amount may vary from year to year. Read more. Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement