Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / ALUMNI & GIVING / Ways to Give Outright Gifts Make your gift online, call University Alumni and Development Services (ADS) at 617-495-1750, or mail your contribution, made payable to Harvard School of Dental Medicine, to: Checks sent to HSDM via USPS Harvard School of Dental Medicine PO Box 419209 Boston, MA 02241-9209 Checks sent to HSDM via FedEx or UPS Bank of America Lockbox Services Harvard School of Dental Medicine Box 419209 2 Morrissey Blvd MA5-527-02-07 Dorchester, MA 02125 Gifts of art, life insurance, real estate, stock, collections, copyrights, royalties, patents, and other income rights and/or assets can be an effective way to provide meaningful support to HSDM. Learn more about how to receive an income tax deduction for the full market value of stock shares and avoid paying capital gains tax. Please contact Jody Johnson at 617-432-0538 for details. Planned Gifts Planned gifts make a significant impact on the Harvard School of Dental Medicine – while providing financial and tax benefits for you and your family. A planned gift in the form of life insurance, real estate, charitable gift annuities, charitable remainder trusts, and bequests may provide you with lifetime benefits, while providing for the School of Dental Medicine into the future. Learn more about the benefits of planned gifts. Please contact Jody Johnson at 617-432-0538 for details. Where to Give Annual Fund Gifts to the annual fund provide unrestricted, current-use funding to HSDM. These funds are used to target areas of the School’s greatest need - which translates to greater flexibility and freedom for the School and our students in terms of scholarships and program support for faculty. Please contact Jody Johnson at 617-432-0538 for details. Named and Endowed Funds Your gift to establish a named endowment fund or contribute to an already established fund provides vital permanent legacies for the School and its programs. Endowed funds support scholarships, fellowships, research, and academic departments in perpetuity. Please contact Jody Johnson at 617-432-0538 for details. Recognition Whether you invest in the School through the annual fund, an endowed fund to perpetuate the name of a loved one, a life income, or your estate plans, your participation enhances the School’s stature in the world and we thank you. We recognize our donors’ generosity online through the following giving societies: Henry C. Warren Society Henry C. Warren made the first planned gift to HSDM in 1899 in the form of a bequest for $23,000. To recognize the generosity of donors who have expressed their intention to provide for HSDM in their estates or made another type of planned gift, the School established the Henry C. Warren Society. Dean’s Society Donors to the Dean’s Society of Harvard School of Dental Medicine contribute $100,000 to $999,999 annually. Carlotta A. Hawley Society This giving society is named for Carlotta Augusta Hawley, DDS, PD38, the first woman graduate of the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Donors at this level contribute $50,000 to $99,999 annually to HSDM. Robert T. Freeman Society This giving society is named for Robert Tanner Freeman, the first African American dental college graduate in the country, who received a DMD from the Harvard School of Dental Medicine in 1869. Donors at this level contribute $10,000 to $49,999 annually to HSDM. Nathan Cooley Keep Society This giving society is named for the founding dean of the School and reflects its founding year (1867). Donors at this level contribute $1,867 to $9,999 each year to the annual fund. Friends All gifts below $1,867. Order of the Golden Crown This society honors those loyal donors who have contributed to HSDM for at least five consecutive years. Membership begins in the year of one's fifth consecutive annual gift. Membership continues only with ongoing annual support. Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections Ways to Give HSDM Annual Fund Student Emergency Fund The Freeman, Grant, Franklin Scholarship The Robert R. White, DMD, Endodontics Fellowship The Walter and Betty Guralnick Scholarship Honor Roll of Donors Corporation and Foundation Partnerships The Impact of Giving Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement