Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / ADMISSIONS / ADMISSIONS OVERVIEW / DMD Applicants Harvard School of Dental Medicine offers DMD candidates an unparalleled opportunity to draw on the resources of a world-renowned University and medical center in the education of its dental students. At its heart, the program considers dentistry a specialty of medicine. A solid understanding of the human body shapes the foundation of the program. In an environment of excellence, shared with Harvard Medical School classmates in the study of the basic sciences, students gain an appreciation of the human mind, body, and spirit. The opportunity to learn firsthand the importance of the doctor-patient relationship, and participation in research, results in a deep understanding of the synergy of oral health and general health. Request Information: Learn About Admissions and Student-Led Events Download a PDF of the DMD Admissions brochure for more information. Curriculum The Pathways curriculum is presented in an interdisciplinary format that fosters independent learning, critical thinking, and lifelong learning skills important to health-care professionals. The curriculum incorporates new pedagogy, eliminating lectures and utilizing flipped classrooms and team-based group activities to enhance the academic environment for millennial learners. The inclusion of a first-year primary care medical rotation as part of the introduction to clinical dentistry supports the School’s vision of transforming dentistry by removing the distinction between oral and systemic health. This unique collaborative learning environment stimulates and challenges students to learn, think and apply their knowledge of science in new ways. Licensure The Doctor of Dental Medicine program is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA), and as such, meets the requirements for licensure in all fifty states and the District of Columbia. Student Life Beyond the classroom, we encourage our students to actively participate in organizations that support their extracurricular interests and future careers. See a list of HSDM student clubs and organizations. Admissions & Aid Admissions Overview DMD Applicants DMD Application Process 2022-2023 Cost of Attendance AGE Applicants Annual Copyright Disclosure Clery Act Financial Aid Scholarships Contact Us If you have additional questions about the DMD program contact Admissions by email or by phone at 617-432-1443. Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement