Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / STUDENTS / Health and Wellbeing Health Services Need to make a doctor’s appointment? Want access to your health records? Visit Harvard University Health Services website and log-in to the Patient Portal. Spiritual Resources Harvard University Chaplains Office Members of the Harvard community are encouraged to contact Harvard Chaplains who are available to meet and talk about spiritual concerns, and ethical and personal matters. Harvard Chaplains Emergency and non-emergency 24/7 on-call: 617-879-8365 Web site: chaplains.harvard.edu Office M-F: 617-495-5529 Meditation and Prayer Room located in Vanderbilt Hall This room is open to all students, staff, and faculty. It is located in room 166 near the Deanery Lounge (entry I). It is used for prayer and meditation, as well as religious, spiritual, and philosophical studies and activities. These religious and spiritual activities take priority over use of the room as an academic study space for individuals or groups. Muslim Prayer Room located in Vanderbilt Hall The Muslim Prayer Room is located in the basement at entry A. It is open to all students and is used for Muslim prayer, mainly Dhuhr and Maghrib prayers. It is also used to break fast during Ramadhan as well as for other religious and educational activities. Access to the Muslim Prayer Room may be arranged by contacting the Business Office at 617-432-1629. Student Life Beyond the classroom, we encourage our students to actively participate in organizations that support their extracurricular interests and future careers. Find a list of HSDM student clubs and organizations. Fitness/Athletic Facilities and Resources Vanderbilt Hall Athletic Facility 107 Avenue Louis Pasteur 617-432-1942 Harvard Athletic Facilities Cambridge, MA- accessible via the M2 shuttle 617-495-4848 Bodyscapes Fitness 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur 617-738-9229 Other Fitness Facilities Located Near HSDM Depending on your health insurance plan, you may be eligible for discounted membership rates at other private gyms in the Boston area. Be sure to consult with your health insurance carrier to inquire about fitness reimbursement plans or discounts. Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Student Life Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student News Class of 2022 Commencement Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement