Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / EDUCATION / Continuing Professional Education The Harvard School of Dental Medicine's Continuing Professional Education (CPE) program offers educational experiences for oral health care professionals and colleagues in other health professions. Led by expert clinicians, scientists and educators, our interdisciplinary portfolio of courses includes topics in clinical dentistry and oral health education, basic and translational science, global and community health, and policy and leadership. Our CPE promotes diversity and inclusion through its faculty and a curriculum that addresses worldwide oral and systemic healthcare issues. Our Goals: To deliver evidence-based clinically relevant educational experiences for oral health professionals focusing on global health care needs, and to foster inquiry and excellence in education, research and patient care. To enhance learner competence and to advance performance leading to improved oral and systemic health. To provide scholarly conversations that translate to improved health and to expand scientific and clinical knowledge. To foster a culture of mutual respect and inclusion through the promotion of diverse perspectives, experiences and beliefs. Our Committment: Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) is committed to providing scientifically and clinically relevant continuing education courses for dental professionals seeking to review, enhance and expand their scientific and clinical knowledge. We offer high-quality custom and open-enrollment continuing education programs regionally, nationally, and internationally throughout the year. In 2019 (prior to the COVID-19 pandemic) over 500 participants from all over the world came to HSDM to expand their competency and knowledge in dentistry. HSDM also hosts international continuing education courses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Venice to provide invaluable insights on topics that are of significant importance to those regions. In 2020, we created an online series of webinars, CPE Today, offered free of charge, and in direct response to helping dentists and healthcare professionals navigate the COVID-19 pandemic. Nearly 2,700 participants from 40+ countries participated in this programming. As we moved our for-credit continuing education courses online, 500 participants from all over the world participated in our courses. We strive to provide lifelong learning experiences for all dental professionals by providing courses with relevant and timely topics taught by HSDM faculty from various academic departments and specialties. Please see our calendar of upcoming courses. For additional information on course offerings, please contact Dr. David M. Kim, Director of Continuing Professional Education. Continuing Professional Education Updates Did you miss the webinar Identifying Older Adult Depression in a Dental Setting? View the recording here! Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education CPE Course Catalog CPE Today CIPCOH Continuing Professional Education Series Join our mailing list Join our mailing list Add your email to the list and let us know what courses interest you. Check out the CE Course Catalog Learn more about the continuing professional education courses offered through HSDM. Contact Caitlin Laughlin Continuing Education Coordinator caitlin_laughlin@hsdm.harvard.edu p: 617-432-4276 Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement