Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / PATIENTS / HARVARD DENTAL CENTER–LONGWOOD / Teaching Practices The Teaching Practices of the Harvard Dental Center is a modern dental facility dedicated to patient oral health. Dental care is affordable because faculty-supervised student dentists provide treatment. The Standards of Care for the Pre-Doctoral Teaching Practices can be viewed here. There are two options within the Teaching Practices: Predoctoral Teaching Practices Third-and-fourth year dental students provide care under the supervision of experienced faculty members. The students perform both general dentistry and specialized procedures. Advanced Graduate Teaching Practices Dentists who are in specialty training programs provide care. These advanced degree students are training to be Endodontists, Periodontists, Orthodontists, Prosthodontists, and Implant Specialists. General dental care is provided by students in the General Practice Residency Program. Services The Teaching Practices provides comprehensive care to patients. It combines all aspects of dentistry - oral diagnosis, dental hygiene, radiology, restorative dentistry, endodontics, periodontics, oral surgery and orthodontics - at a single location. Whatever your dental needs, the entire range of dental care services are available at the Teaching Practices. Length of Treatment The number and length of visits is greater in the Teaching Practices than in a private dental practice. The dental students often work at a slower pace. To assure the highest quality of care, a Harvard faculty member will check the work at each step. For many patients the lower fees make it worth spending the extra time to receive quality care. Insurance, Billing, and Payment The Teaching Practices accepts many insurance plans as well as Master Card, VISA, and American Express. Insurance plans accepted at the Teaching Practices include: Delta Dental Premier Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Massachusetts UnitedHealthcare Commonwealth Care Alliance/Scion* MassHealth* *Your Patient Services Liaison will review your insurance plan or Commonwealth Care Alliance/ MassHealth eligibility and outline the estimated costs of your comprehensive treatment plan. If your insurance is not listed here, we can still treat you, albeit the request for reimbursement will be your responsibility. Patient Services Liaisons can provide you with a claim form for submission to your insurance. Cost There is an inital fee for an examination and necessary diagnostic x-rays in the Oral Diagnosis Clinic. If you need additional treatment, each of the Teaching Practices has a different fee structure. The Predoctoral Practice has the lowest fees. Although the Advanced Graduate fees are higher than the Predoctoral fees, they are still lower than those charged by dentists in private practice. Harvard Dental Center New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Longwood - Faculty Group Practice Teaching Practices Standards of Care Specialties About Us Patient Portal The Harvard Dental Center's Patient Portal allows you to complete your medical and dental histories online, prior to your visit. Your information is transmitted safely and directly to our secure server. Register here. Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement