Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Calendar Contact Intranet Give Search About Overview Administrative Offices Board Leadership History Coronavirus Response Contact Us Jobs@HSDM Admissions Admissions Overview DMD Applicants AGE Applicants Financial Aid AGE Program Financial Aid DMD Program Financial Aid Scholarships Alumni & Giving Alumni Connections The Impact of Giving Ways to Give Corporation and Foundation Partnerships Education Academic Departments DMD Program Advanced Graduate Education Programs Research Academy at HSDM and the Forsyth Institute PhD in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Registrar Continuing Professional Education News Patients New Patients Harvard Dental Center–Cambridge Harvard Dental Center–Longwood Faculty Group Practice Meet Our Faculty Providers Teaching Practices Specialties About Us People Directory Profiles Research Research Overview Research Laboratories Clinical Researchers Health Services Research Research Bulletins Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student Life Student News HOME / STUDENTS / CLASS OF 2022 COMMENCEMENT / 2022 Commencement Award Recipients Class of 2022 Graduate Recognition Award Ceremony DMD Student Awards Camille Marie Herzog Harvard Dental Alumni Association Gold Medal For exceptional all-around scholastic achievement Jack A. Harris Harvard Dental Alumni Association Silver Medal For outstanding all-around scholastic achievement Ye Won Stacy Cho Dr. Paul Boyle Award For excellence in the field of Oral Pathology Nicole A. Beck The Lois K. Cohen Award For excellence in global health Grace Milliken Award For an outstanding thesis on the general subject of dental health Elizabeth A. Perry Dr. Roy O. Greep Award For excellence in basic sciences Harvard Odontological Society Award For excellence in research Emily June Van Doren Dr. Norman B. Nesbett Award For excellence in clinical dentistry Marisa Moret Werger Gerald Shklar Memorial Award For excellence in academics and demonstrated talents in fields distinguished from the sciences, such as art, literature, and/or public service Reinaldo Javier Hernandez Dr. Leo Talkov Award For excellence in clinical dentistry Michael Sebastian Cevallos The Community Service Predoctoral Student Award For overall achievement in public health and contribution to the field Advanced Graduate Education Student Awards Fahad Hegazi The Lois K. Cohen Award For excellence in global health Nora Ibrahim Alamer Dr. James M. Dunning Award For outstanding research in oral epidemiology/public health dentistry Shaima Omar Bahammam Dr. Joseph L. Henry Award For extraordinary accomplishments in research and clinical dentistry, and contributions to the School Ozge Erdogan Dr. James H. Shaw Award In recognition of research that greatly advances knowledge in a particular discipline Dania Bahdila The Community Service Postdoctoral Student Award For overall achievement in public health and contribution to the field 2022 Professional Awards and Special Recognition Academy of Operative Dentistry Award Lilia Joy Tabassian Academy of Osseointegration Outstanding Dental Student in Implant Dentistry Award Ye Won Stacy Cho American Academy of Cosmetic Dentistry – Honorable Esthetic Achievement Poster Student Award (HEAPS) Paula Furlan Bavia Barbisan American Academy of Esthetic Dentistry Richard Shen American Academy of Implant Dentistry: Predoctoral Dental Student Award Camille Marie Herzog American Academy of Implant Dentistry: Postdoctoral Student Award Gregory Chan American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology Ye Won Stacy Cho American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology Collin Anker Ritchie American Academy of Oral Medicine Natalie Luran Wen American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry Marisa Moret Werger American Academy of Periodontology Ye Won Stacy Cho American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons Student Award Joshua Alexander Heller American Association of Orthodontists Emily June Van Doren American College of Dentists Outstanding Student Leader Award Elizabeth Blake McGough American College of Prosthodontists Nicole Castro Newberry American Prosthodontic Society Emily June Van Doren ASDA Award of Excellence Mark Leo Berenshteyn ADEA Dr. Jeanne Craig Sinkford Student Leadership Award Natalie Luran Wen International College of Dentists Leadership Award Mark Leo Berenshteyn International College of Dentists Humanitarian Award Camille Marie Herzog International Congress of Oral Implantologists Award Reinaldo Javier Hernandez Northeastern Society of Periodontology Kailing Ho Pierre Fauchard Academy Senior Student Award Jack A. Harris Oral Health Foundation of the Pierre Fauchard Academy 3rd year Student Award Paulina Miller Whip Mix Corporation – Hanau Award in Prosthodontics William Piers Hunter Outstanding Teaching Faculty Awards Recipients of these awards were chosen by the DMD Class of 2022 to honor individuals who had a significant impact on the class. Elizabeth Alpert, DDS, MPH Dr. Elizabeth Alpert has made a lasting impact on the Class of 2022, teaching us at a critical point in our education. At a time when COVID led to faculty shortages and limited clinic time, Alpert stepped up and provided high-quality clinical supervision and education. Alpert received her dental degree from the University of Buffalo School of Dental Medicine. She then completed a General Practice Residency at the University of Washington with a concentration in Special Care Dentistry, and a Master of Public Health degree in Health Policy at Harvard. Alpert’s dental expertise combined with her public health background shines through in her teaching. She goes the extra mile with us in clinic, spending time teaching students rather than simply checking steps. She promotes the importance of preventative and comprehensive care and exemplifies HSDM’s mission of understanding that oral health is essential to overall health. What’s more, Alpert does all the above with a positive attitude and provides constructive criticism in a respectful manner. For all these reasons, the Class of 2022 is thrilled to recognize her with this year’s Outstanding Teaching Award. Russell Taylor, DMD Dr. Russell Taylor graduated from McGill University in Montreal, then completed Advanced Education in General Dentistry Residency at the University of the Pacific. He is a part-time lecturer at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine in the Department of Restorative Dentistry and Biomaterials Sciences as well as at the University of the Pacific. Taylor has supported the efforts to modernize clinical dentistry at the University of Hue in Vietnam and is notable for receiving many awards for his service in education and philanthropy. Taylor’s private practice and mentorship expertise has made an indelible impact on each of us. He guides us with an appropriate balance between independence and supervision. The effortless manner in which he supports students during strenuous situations while simultaneously encouraging students to learn displays his leadership skills. “Nothing is more important than you” was always his response when we nervously asked him to do another check, showcasing his true passion to teach. He walks into the clinic with a smile and a positive attitude and shares his life experiences for us to learn from. In addition to the above, Taylor has ignited many students’ interest in esthetic dentistry through his hands-on workshops and didactic courses. The class of 2022 is grateful for Taylor’s contributions and would like to recognize him with the Outstanding Teaching Faculty Award. Outstanding Resident Teaching Award The pre-doctoral Class of 2022 has elected to honor an advanced graduate dental resident for their significant contributions to the class. Mahmoud Hamad, DMD, MMSc Dr. Mahmoud Hamad’s friendliness, approachability, and passion for student learning stands out to the DMD Class of 2022. Hamad completed his DMD degree from Western University College of Dental Medicine and is a soon-to-be graduate of HSDM’s advanced graduate Periodontology program. Despite a rigorous residency schedule, Hamad took the time to get to know each member of the Class of 2022. He approaches teaching in a supportive, non-judgmental manner, and he cultivates individual student interests through inviting students to assist on surgeries and working with students on multidisciplinary cases. After residency, Hamad will be joining a private practice and will continue to be a role model for many of us. The DMD Class of 2022 is grateful for our shared learning experiences with Mahmoud at HSDM. Outstanding Staff Awards The recipient of this award was chosen by the DMD Class of 2022 to honor an individual who had an immeasurable impact on the class Charles Mwele, CDT Charles Mwele has made an immeasurable impact on the Class of 2022. As laboratory coordinator and instructional dental technologist, Mwele has been our guide in learning foundational laboratory skills. He dives in whole-heartedly when helping students, helping us with complex prosthetic work and walking us through multi-step lab procedures. He does this while simultaneously supporting the AGE residents and digital lab. Despite juggling constant requests for help, he accomplishes his role with a smile and encourages us to learn from every mistake. We also want to recognize that Mwele’s support extends beyond the classroom. He looks after our wellbeing and he never hesitates to reach out when one of us is struggling. Mwele has been instrumental in our development as dentists, and we are honored to recognize him for his exceptional mentorship and kindness with the Outstanding Staff Award. Charles, thank you for everything you do for us! Distinguished Faculty Awards Distinguished Senior Faculty Award Christine Murphy Riedy, PhD, MPH Dr. Christine Riedy received her MA (1995) and PhD (1997) in psychology and her MPH in health services (2002) from the University of Washington. Her research has been primarily focused on the understanding and prevention of early childhood caries, particularly in underserved and diverse populations. Dr. Riedy provides innovative thinking, valuable mentorship, and strong leadership to faculty, staff and students. Her inspiration in Dental Public Health and Health Services Research has been exemplary. It is a great honor to recognize Dr. Riedy’s remarkable contributions to the School of Dental Medicine with this year’s Distinguished Senior Faculty Award. Distinguished Junior Faculty Award Sam Coffin, DMD, MBA Dr. Samuel Coffin received his DMD degree from the Boston University Goldman School of Dental Medicine. He combined a two-year hospital-based general practice residency at the West Roxbury VA Hospital with a post-doctoral fellowship at HSDM. Later he received his MBA in Health Care Management from the Boston University Graduate School of Management. Following four years in private practice, Coffin returned to the VA as Staff Dentist with involvement in the on-site advanced graduate periodontics and general practice residencies. Coffin is known as a valued mentor and colleague in the HSDM community. In recognition of his commitment to being a dedicated educator and clinical leader who influences progressive change in medical and dental education, Dr. Coffin is the recipient of this year’s Distinguished Junior Faculty Award. Students Academic Support Disability Services Health and Wellbeing Housing Student Life Policies, Handbooks, Manuals Safety and Title IX Student News Class of 2022 Commencement 2022 Commencement Award Recipients Graduate Profiles Message from Dean Giannobile Welcome New Alumni Harvard Dental Center Cambridge 114 Mt. Auburn Street, 7th Floor Cambridge, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434 Email the Cambridge Practice Longwood 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA Hours Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Appointments (617) 432-1434, option #1 for Teaching Practices option #2 for Faculty Group Practice Email the Longwood Practices 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Contact Us I HSDM Email I eCommons I myCourses I Harvard Directory Forsyth Harvard HMS HSPH website survey tab Help Us Improve Our Website styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement