Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Program in the History of Science and Medicine Home People Undergraduate Major Graduate Studies Events Welcome News Interview: HSHM PhD Student, Kenya Loudd, featured on podcast "Disability Matters" May 16, 2022 Episode Description Host Joyce Bender welcomes Kenya Loudd, a joint doctoral student at Yale University in the departments of History of Science and Medicine and African... HSHM PhD Student, Kenya Loudd, speaks with The New Haven Independent about upcoming Disability and Accessibility Symposium March 28, 2022 To watch the full New Haven Independent interview click here. 2022 Symposium on Disability and Accessibility, April 4, 2022 April 5-28 marks the 45th anniversary of the San... President Biden has selected Debbie Coen as a nominee to the National Council on the Humanities January 19, 2022 WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate the following leaders to serve as key leaders in his administration: Elizabeth Bagley, Nominee for... Past Pandemics Remind Us Covid Will Be an Era, Not a Crisis That Fades October 13, 2021 The skeletons move across a barren landscape toward the few helpless and terrified people still living. The scene, imagined in a mid-16th-century painting, “The Triumph of... 2021 Yale-Jefferson Awards honor three Yalies for their contributions to society and community September 27, 2021 The Yale-Jefferson Awards are presented annually, recognizing sustained public service that is individual, innovative, impactful, and inspiring. The recipients are three... More news... COVID-19 Guidance Click here for the latest information on Yale’s COVID-19 policies and procedures. COVID-19 Research and Teaching Portfolio Highlights HSHM students and faculty get a guided tour of Yale’s particle accelerator. Exploring Yale’s collection of historical scientific instruments. Students perform paper dissections using Johan Remmelin’s anatomy flap book Catoptrum Microcosmicum, first published in 1619. Students take photos of Newton’s Principia – the copy that he himself sent to Yale College in 1717. Exploring the history and future of urban agriculture at the Yale Farm. A hands-on introduction to custom fabrication technology at a Yale engineering lab. A round-table discussion of direct-to-consumer genetic testing. Ornithologist Rick Prum explains the history of Yale’s albatross collection. Casting Jurassic footprints in plaster at Dinosaur State Park. Deborah Coen’s lecture course, Making Climate Knowledge, visit the Yale Farm. Deborah Coen’s lecture course, Making Climate Knowledge, visits Peabody’s Science & Technology Collection on West Campus Deborah Coen’s lecture course, Making Climate Knowledge, visits Peabody’s Science & Technology Collection on West Campus Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube