Skip to main content School of History and Sociology Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About School Overview The History of HSOC Contact Us Directions Visit Us Donate Research Research Overview Research Areas History of Technology / Engineering and Society Global Cities and Urban Society Agriculture, Health, and the Environment Modern Global History / Science, Technology, and Nationalism U.S. Society and Politics/Policy Perspectives HSOC Spring 2022 Speakers Series Black Feminist Think Tank China Research Center Sports, Society, and Technology Program Research Highlights Books by our Faculty Undergraduate Programs Overview Academic Programs in History and Sociology The HTS Major Why Major in HTS? What About a Double Major? Current Students Apply to Graduate Prospective Students Curriculum Requirements Scholarships and Awards Career Information How Will HTS Prepare Me? The HTS Major + A Minor Transfer Into the HTS Major Minors and Certificates What Can I Do With a Minor? Undergraduate Student Life Clubs and Honor Societies Undergraduate Student Profiles HSOC Class of 2022 Outside the Classroom Global Experiences Internship Opportunities Research Undergraduate Classes Fall 2022 Class Schedule Overloads and Permits Undergraduate Blog Graduate Programs Overview Academic Programs in History and Sociology Ph.D. in HSTS M.S. in HSTS Graduate Admissions Process Graduate Assistantships Graduate Scholarly Community Teaching and Education Forms and Documents Research and Scholarly Community Graduate Courses Overloads and Permits Current Graduate Students Recently Awarded Ph.D.s People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni Alumni Profiles Donate News and Events News & Events Overview News Events Research Highlights Annual Newsletter Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Explore the Past, Engage the Present, Define the Future Explore Our Undergraduate Programs Explore Our Graduate Programs Explore Our Research Areas Recent News Ivan Allen College Instructors Named to 2022 CIOS Honor Roll May 27, 2022 Twenty-three instructors across all six Ivan Allen College schools have been named to the Student Recognition of Excellence in Teaching: … Alumni Spotlight: Patrick Zander, Writer and History Professor May 10, 2022 Patrick Zander is an associate professor of history at Georgia Gwinnett College and has published books on history and historical fiction. HSOC Spring 2022 Awards Roundup May 9, 2022 Congratulations to all of the talented students, faculty, and staff in the School of History and Sociology who earned awards and recognition … Oh, The Places You'll Go! Ivan Allen College Celebrates Class of 2022 Graduates May 2, 2022 Read more about some of our class of 2022 graduates as they prepare for commencement. More News Upcoming Events Sorry, no upcoming events found. Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram School of History and Sociology Old Civil Engineering Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0225 Phone: 404-894-3196 Fax: 404-894-0535 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Student Resources Minors and Certificates Schedule an Advising Appointment Registration Overloads and Permits OSCAR (Online Registration) Quick Links Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Online Directory Buzzport College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology