Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About the IRBs AAHRPP Accreditation Federalwide Assurance (FWA) and IRB Registration Numbers IRB Rosters IRB Meeting Dates University Fees UM Central IRB Research Participants Covid-19 Researchers Does My Project Need Review by the IRB How to Submit to the IRB Forms & Templates Ancillary Committees IRB 10 Upgrade Consent to Contact Policies, Procedures, & Regulations Single IRB and Reliances NIH Genomic Data Sharing Florida DNA Law Sponsors Announcements Contact Us Virtual Office Hours About the IRBs Research Participants Covid-19 Researchers Sponsors Announcements Contact Us Search Ancillary Committees CITI Training Disclosures Expanded Use of Investigational Drugs and Devices About the IRBs AAHRPP Accreditation Federalwide Assurance (FWA) and IRB Registration Numbers IRB Rosters IRB Meeting Dates University Fees UM Central IRB Research Participants Covid-19 Researchers Does My Project Need Review by the IRB How to Submit to the IRB Forms & Templates Ancillary Committees IRB 10 Upgrade Consent to Contact Policies, Procedures, & Regulations Single IRB and Reliances NIH Genomic Data Sharing Florida DNA Law Sponsors Announcements Contact Us Virtual Office Hours OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Ancillary Committees CITI Training Disclosures Expanded Use of Investigational Drugs and Devices About the IRBs Research Participants Covid-19 Researchers Sponsors Announcements Contact Us Home Information for Researchers How to Submit to the IRB CITI Training AAA CITI Training Ancillary Committees CITI Training Disclosures Expanded Use of Investigational Drugs and Devices Training requirements for Investigators and Research Staff This section describes the training requirements imposed by the HSRO. You may have additional training imposed by other federal, state, or institutional policies. Basic Courses in Human Subject Research Training All personnel involved in human subject research must complete human subject research training before engaging in human subject research activities. This requirement is referred to as becoming “CITI-Certified. The following classes of individuals must complete the required training: Investigators Sub-investigators Research team members listed in the eProst application Individuals named as the contact person in the informed consent document and recruitment materials Investigators are responsible for ensuring all study team members have completed training before submitting an application to the IRB. The PI and research team members should complete the required training before submitting an application for a new study to the IRB for review. New members of the research team must complete the training before engaging in research activities, including access to and analysis of private identifiable data. CITI offers the following courses: Group 1: HSR Series for Biomedical Researchers - Required for all personnel involved primarily in biomedical research; and for all personnel performing both biomedical and social/behavioral research. Group 2: HSR Series for Social-Behavioral-Educational Researchers Basic Course - Required for all personnel involved primarily in social and behavioral research. Trainees should select the courses most applicable to the types of human subject research conducted at their site. The IRB reserves the right to make this course a requirement for research personnel involved in both biomedical and social/behavioral research. Recertification is required at three-year intervals for all courses discussed above. The CITI Program offers refresher courses to meet the training requirements. Principal Investigators must ensure that all study team members hold current CITI certification. Failure to maintain such certification is noncompliance with University requirements for the conduct of human subject research. Training for Clinical Trials In addition to the above courses, investigators and research team members involved in the conduct of a clinical trial must complete training in Good Clinical Practice (GCP). Below is the definition of “clinical trial.” Clinical trial means a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of the interventions on biomedical or behavioral health-related outcomes. GCP training is a regulatory requirement for NIH-funded clinical trials, including clinical trials with that focus on social-behavioral issues. GCP training consists of basic and refresher courses provided by CITI tailored to different types of research, including: GCP for Clinical Trials with Investigational Drugs and Medical Devices (FDA focus) GCP for Clinical Trials with Investigational Drugs and Biologics (ICH Focus) GCP for Clinical Investigations of Devices GCP – Social and Behavioral Research Best Practices for Clinical Research Trainees should select the courses most applicable to the types of human subject research conducted at their site. As with the basic courses, retraining is required at three-year intervals for all courses discussed above. The CITI Program also offers refresher courses to meet the retraining requirement. For questions or concerns related to this issue, please contact the Human Subjects Research Office at 305-2433195 or email our Help desk at hsro@med.miami.edu. Financial Disclosure requirements Investigators and key personnel must comply with the Conflict of Interest, Conflict of Commitment, Foreign Influence, and Institutional Conflict of Interest policy. The role of the Disclosures & Scholarly Activities Management (DSAM, formerly the DRM) and the UM COI Committee (COIC) is to determine whether an investigator’s relationship with an external entity creates a situation that could introduce bias into a research project conducted at UM or by UM investigators, and, where this occurs, to manage it. Additional information is located on the UDisclose website pages. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices