Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Social Science Research Center Main Navigation ABOUT THE SSRC Show Extended Accomplishing CSUF's Strategic Plan SERVICES STAFF Current Projects CLIENTS ADVISORY BOARD CAREER OPPORTUNITIES INTERNSHIPS CONTACT US About the SSRC The Social Science Research Center was established in 1987 to provide research services to campus and community organizations and research support to CSUF faculty and staff. As a university-based center, the SSRC is fundamentally concerned with providing high-quality research services utilizing state-of-the-art hardware, software and methodology. The Center assists non-profit and tax-supported agencies and organizations to conduct methodologically sound studies to answer policy-relevant research questions. The motto of the Center is, "Applied Research in the Public Interest." The SSRC supports the preeminence of learning at CSU Fullerton by providing training and instructional opportunities, as well as employment, related to the conduct of applied social research. The Social Science Research Center subscribes to the principles expressed by the American Association for Public Opinion Research, "Code of Professional Ethics and Practices" and is a member of AAPOR's Transparency Initiative, a status that shows a commitment to openness and transparency in research. A Note on COVID-19 The SSRC remains committed to playing a role in important community and social science research endeavors in spite of the limitations the novel coronavirus and COVID-19 have placed on our communities, nation, and entire world. Fortunately, technology's many benefits that have allowed for a variety of important functions to continue in the face of this pandemic have done the same for survey research. Using highly secure software solutions paired with stringent quality control protocols, SSRC has been able to move our 26-station CATI-Lab to a fully remote or "virtual" solution for the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. All steps of the research process can be completed without the risk of face-to-face interactions and while adhering to social distancing measures, from survey creation to telephone survey collection to data cleaning and processing. We look forward to the day when we can work side-by-side, but until then, we remain fully operational virtually. This site is maintained by Social Science Research Center. Last Published 5/18/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact lgil-trejo@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.