Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Modern Languages and Literatures Main Navigation Academics Show Extended Chinese French German Japanese Persian Spanish TESOL Vietnamese Advisors Faculty Student Clubs Contact Us Scholarships Support Our Department Graduate Students Graduate TESOL Programs Graduate TESOL Admissions Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Graduate TESOL Programs Accreditation Information Undergraduate Students Undergraduate TESOL Programs Undergraduate TESOL Certificate Program Requirements Undergraduate and Graduate TESOL Certificate Programs Comparison Subject Matter Preparation Program for the World Language: ELD Credential Requirements Additional Resources TESOL Advisement TESOL Courses TESOL Scholarships TESOL Club TESOL Enthusiasm for language, desire to meet people from all over the globe, and love of teaching are a few of the many reasons to select the Master of Science in Education with a concentration in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL), or the Graduate TESOL Certificate, which are offered by the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures. The master's degree program is the largest public university master's program in TESOL in Orange County. This site is maintained by Department of Modern Languages and Literatures. Last Published 3/29/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact blruiz@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.