Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Main Navigation About HSS Prospective Students For Students For Faculty Advising Support HSS Contact Us News Calendar Departments & Degrees Study Abroad Cal State DC Research Centers Collective for Justice, Equity, and Transformation Advisement Academic Notice Support Career Planning Clubs & Organizations Inter-Club Council (ICC) Scholarships & Awards HSS Housing Community Study Abroad & Study Away Cal State DC Scholars Resources Meet Your Team Black Lives Movement Resources Reserve Conference Room SSC Contact Us Welcome to the HSS Student Success Center Welcome back HSS Titans! As of August 2nd, we are now assisting students in person and virtually. The mission of the HSS Student Success Team is to support and nurture our students’ academic, personal, and social development. We cultivate partnerships and foster student success through academic and career advising, involvement in leadership opportunities, exposure to scholarships and campus resources, and study abroad/study away programs. Email: hssuccessteam@fullerton.edu Call: 657-278-2594 Visit: H-112 Our team is dedicated to helping you navigate your Titan Experience and achieve your academic, personal, and professional goals. We are available to support you in the following areas: Academic advising Exploration and preparation for your future career Study Abroad/Study Away opportunities/ Cal State DC program Leadership and campus involvement Connection to campus resources related to your general health, mental health, and well-being College and department scholarships opportunities Follow us: @csuf_hss_success on Instagram for latest updates from the college and student success center @csufhssicc for HSS student organization opportunities @csufhsshousingfloor to connect with other HSS students living on campus @csufhss_studyabroad to learn of study abroad and away opportunities For up-to-date announcements regarding COVID-19, visit the Titans Return: COVID-19 Recovery website. This site is maintained by College of Humanities and Social Sciences. Last Published 8/30/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact avanfleet@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.