Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Modern Languages and Literatures Main Navigation Academics Show Extended Chinese French German Japanese Persian Spanish TESOL Vietnamese Advisors Faculty Student Clubs Contact Us Scholarships Support Our Department Spanish Faculty Spanish Advisement Spanish Assessment Spanish Courses MA in Spanish BA in Spanish Minor in Spanish Translation Certificate Spanish Media Certificate Single Subject Credential Spanish Clubs Study Abroad Spanish Program Welcome to the Spanish program in the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures at CSUF! Our program is comprehensive, where you will have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to explore the fascinating world of the Spanish-speaking countries and people. In our program, you will explore and learn about linguistics, literature, culture, history, business, and society in Spain and Spanish America. We offer courses geared towards acquiring or further developing your Spanish language skills, as well as courses in the upper-division level where you will be analyzing, thinking critically, expressing your views, and deepening your knowledge about the Spanish-speaking world, all in the target language. Our program offers the following academic degrees: Master of Arts in Spanish Bachelor of Arts in Spanish Minor in Spanish Certificate in Translation: Spanish to English/English to Spanish Spanish for Hispanic Media Certificate Other offerings include a Certificate of Completion for courses in Spanish for Health Professions; Master of Arts in Spanish with a concentration in Chicana/Chicano Studies; General Education courses; an active Spanish students and alumni association; an active Spanish honor society, and CSU-approved International Programs in Chile, México and Spain. This site is maintained by Department of Modern Languages and Literatures. Last Published 3/29/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact blruiz@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.