Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Division of Politics, Administration, and Justice Main Navigation Political Science Show Extended Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Minor in Political Science Minor in Law Politics and Society Minor in International Politics Master of Arts in Political Science (MAPS) MAPS Admissions MAPS Alumni FAQs (POSC Undergraduate) Criminal Justice Show Extended Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice Minor in Criminal Justice CRJU 100 Peer Mentor Criminal Justice Awards FAQs (CJ) Public Administration Show Extended Bachelor of Arts in Public Administration (BA) City Management Fellowship Program Minor in Public Administration Minor in Public Policy Career/Internship Opportunities FAQs (PA Undergraduate) Master of Public Administration Program (MPA) MPA Admissions MPA Curriculum Career/Internship Opportunities FAQs (MPA) MPA Alumni MPA News MPA Advisory Board MPA Faculty Research Students Show Extended Application - Undergraduate Clubs and Organizations within PAJ Graduate Studies Graduate Assistant Application - Fall 2021 Internships Office of Admissions Other On-Campus Student Support Scholarships MPA Saltzein Scholarship Application Student Life and Leadership (Clubs and Organizations) Study Abroad Contact Us - Faculty & Staff Show Extended Criminal Justice Faculty Political Science and Public Administration Faculty Part-Time Faculty Advising Make A Gift Cal State DC Scholars Center for Public Policy City Management Fellowship Program Moot Court Town Hall Meeting Nominate an Alumni of the Year MAJOR REQUIREMENTS MINOR REQUIREMENTS FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Fall 2020 Handbook Criminal Justice is the study of the causes, consequences and control of crime. Like other new and developing fields, criminal justice is difficult to define, as it draws from a number of different disciplines, including psychology, public administration, philosophy, political science, sociology and law. The program leading to the Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice is designed to acquaint pre-service and in-service students with the principles and practices of criminal justice in America. Although the department's curriculum allows for the development of depth in one of the subject's substantive subsystems (i.e., law enforcement, courts or corrections), the overriding objective is to familiarize students with activities in all the above areas. The department is both academic and professional in that it is an interdisciplinary attempt to relate intellectual issues and practitioner perspectives to the challenge of crime in a free society. In this regard, the department provides preparation for employment with a related agency and/or further study (e.g., law school). Admission Requirements For Transfer Students For Fall 2019 To be considered for priority admission to the Criminal Justice Program, applicants must have a GPA of 2.8 or above and have completed Criminal Justice 100 (or equivalent course) completed with a grade of C or better by the end of the Spring term. Applicants that do not have met this requirement will be placed on a waitlist and will be considered for admission based on space availability. It is recommended that prospective students utilize the course articulation information on the ASSIST website to determine how your course matches the requirement. This site is maintained by Division of Politics, Administration, and Justice. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact mjarvis@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.