Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Main Navigation About HSS Prospective Students For Students For Faculty Advising Support HSS Contact Us News Calendar Departments & Degrees Study Abroad Cal State DC Research Centers Collective for Justice, Equity, and Transformation HSS News Flash! To Full Articles AFAM 314 Studies Pan-African Dance and Movement Pan-African Dance and Movements is a theory course focused on encountering the movement spanning the African Diaspora, taught this semester by Tula B Strong. Maria Linares named to the CSU Board of Trustees by Governor Sacramento – Governor Gavin Newsom today announced appointments to the governing boards of the state’s public institutions of higher education. Primary Resources – Research with world-class archives The College of HSS is investing over $250,000 in purchasing digital primary source collections that students and faculty can use to study African American, Asian American, Chicana/o, and Native American communities. These purchases will ensure that the curriculum development in Ethnic Studies, spurred by the new General Education Requirement, will be enriched by student and faculty access to an array of primary sources. New money fuels north county effort to blend police, community groups to tackle social issues With $7.8 million in the state budget, the North Orange County Public Safety Task Force continues to battle social problems that don't respect city boundaries. Laura Gil-Trejo, the SSRC’s director, has been working on a deeper evaluation of the effectiveness and results of the task force’s various efforts. HSS News This page uses Ajax which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This site is maintained by College of Humanities and Social Sciences. Last Published 9/15/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact avanfleet@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.