Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Main Navigation About HSS Prospective Students For Students For Faculty Advising Support HSS Contact Us News Calendar Departments & Degrees Study Abroad Cal State DC Research Centers Collective for Justice, Equity, and Transformation Faculty Faculty members who teach in the College of Humanities and Social Sciences are scholars who are devoted to study and research in their own professional fields and committed teachers who care deeply about the intellectual engagement and growth of their students. The College is proud to be home to over 200 faculty members who, together, represent an elite group of nationally and internationally recognized scholars, authors, and teachers. College Committees Faculty Resources Awards The College of Humanities and Social Sciences is extremely proud of its accomplished faculty – world-class intellectuals in every department and program. H&SS professors are experts in their fields. They conduct research, publish books and papers, are quoted in the media, present at conferences, and win awards. How do we describe our faculty? Passionate. Dedicated. Driven. Accessible. They drive our rich and rewarding curriculum, which connects and combines classical liberal arts with outstanding professional study. We are happy to list the awards received by our faculty and congratulate them for their outstanding efforts. 2021 H&SS Awards Recipients This year we received many nominations for the six H&SS Faculty Awards. The quality of these applications was, once again, truly impressive and it was a difficult task to select from the high number of exceptional applicants. The high quality of the nominations is a testament to the commitment and excellence of the faculty of this college. Distinguished Faculty Member Jochen Burgtorf, History Outstanding Scholarship and Creativity Nicole Seymour, English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics Outstanding Teaching Aitana Guia, History Outstanding Service Patricia Pérez, Chicana and Chicano Studies Outstanding Untenured Faculty Member Jamila Moore Pewu, History Outstanding Lecturer Raelynne Hale, Modern Languages and Literatures 2021 Dean’s Faculty Scholarly Achievement Award Brian Norton, English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics for the journal article: “Aesthetics, Science, and the Theater of the World” in New Literary History. Emily Kuffner, Modern Languages and Literatures for the journal article: “Mandrake and Monarchy in Early Modern Spain” in Journal of the History of Sexuality. Nancy Panza, Psychology for the journal article: “Statutes Governing Juvenile Competency to Stand Trial Proceedings: An Analysis of Consistency with Best Practice Recommendations” in Psychology, Public Policy, & Law. 2021/22 Dean's Research Award for Associate Professors To assist associate professors in completing the research and publications necessary to attain the rank of full professor, the College of Humanities and Social Sciences has established a cash award for research for associate professors. This award has been funded by a gift from an anonymous emeriti faculty member and the Dean’s discretionary account: Spring 2022 Eric Carbajal, Modern Language and Literatures Satoko Kakihara, Modern Languages and Literatures Summer 2022 Research/Writing & Pedagogical Innovations Stipends Eddy Alvarez, Jr., Chicana and Chicano Studies L. Maria Bo, English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics Satoko Kakihara, Modern Languages and Literatures Natalie Novoa, African American Studies Hiromi Tobaru, Modern Languages and Literatures André Zampaulo, Modern Languages and Literatures 2021/22 International Travel Grants Fanny Daubigny, Modern Languages and Literatures Sharon Kim, Sociology Kevin Lambert, Liberal Studies Mugdha Yeolekar, Religious Studies 2021/2022 Faculty Recognition: Scholarly and Creative Activity We are proud of the H&SS faculty who were recognized for their outstanding records of scholarly and/or creative activity. Work produced between January 2018 and August 2021 was considered for the award Dustin Abnet, American Studies Sara Fingal, American Studies Eric Estuar Reyes, Asian American Studies Sarah Grant, Anthropology Karen Stocker, Anthropology Mario Alberto Obando, Jr., Chicana and Chicano Studies David Kelman, English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics Kenneth Van Bik, English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics J. Chris Westgate, English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics Jochen Burgtorf, History Jamila Moore Pewu, History André Zampaulo, Modern Languages and Literatures Emily Kuffner, Modern Languages and Literatures Alissa Ackerman, Politics, Administration and Justice Lidia Nuño, Politics, Administration and Justice Alexei Shevchenko, Politics, Administration and Justice David Traven, Politics, Administration and Justice Yuko Okado, Psychology Nancy L. Segal, Psychology Zakyi Ibrahim, Religious Studies Anthony Alvarez, Sociology Taylor Cruz, Sociology This site is maintained by College of Humanities and Social Sciences. Last Published 5/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact avanfleet@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.