Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Division of Politics, Administration, and Justice Main Navigation Political Science Show Extended Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Minor in Political Science Minor in Law Politics and Society Minor in International Politics Master of Arts in Political Science (MAPS) MAPS Admissions MAPS Alumni FAQs (POSC Undergraduate) Criminal Justice Show Extended Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice Minor in Criminal Justice CRJU 100 Peer Mentor Criminal Justice Awards FAQs (CJ) Public Administration Show Extended Bachelor of Arts in Public Administration (BA) City Management Fellowship Program Minor in Public Administration Minor in Public Policy Career/Internship Opportunities FAQs (PA Undergraduate) Master of Public Administration Program (MPA) MPA Admissions MPA Curriculum Career/Internship Opportunities FAQs (MPA) MPA Alumni MPA News MPA Advisory Board MPA Faculty Research Students Show Extended Application - Undergraduate Clubs and Organizations within PAJ Graduate Studies Graduate Assistant Application - Fall 2021 Internships Office of Admissions Other On-Campus Student Support Scholarships MPA Saltzein Scholarship Application Student Life and Leadership (Clubs and Organizations) Study Abroad Contact Us - Faculty & Staff Show Extended Criminal Justice Faculty Political Science and Public Administration Faculty Part-Time Faculty Advising Make A Gift Cal State DC Scholars Center for Public Policy City Management Fellowship Program Moot Court Town Hall Meeting Nominate an Alumni of the Year BACHELOR OF ARTS IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (BA) MASTER OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION Public Administration trains people to become managers in government and nonprofit organizations. It draws on literature from political science, psychology, economics, business and sociology to provide students with skills that will make them more effective public sector leaders. It is concerned with the role played by public employees in policy-making, planning, personnel management, taxation and finance, and in responding to the needs and problems of communities and the nation. Learning Goals and Student Learning Outcomes The following goals and learning outcomes have been established for students pursuing a degree in Public Administration: Knowledge Understand and use factual knowledge about the role and function of the public and nonprofit sectors of society, including understanding the role of the administrative function in political systems Acquire factual knowledge of the role of personnel administration, public budgeting and finance in the creation and implementation of public policy Understand the role of public administration professionals as participants in the creation and implementation of public policy Understand models of politics and governance as they relate to the role of administrative agencies and processes, particularly their role in democratic systems. Experience Be provided with the opportunity, through internships, to experience public administration directly. Skills Develop skills in acquiring, analyzing and assessing information in public and nonprofit settings. Be able to think and write clearly, critically and intelligently about public administration. This site is maintained by Division of Politics, Administration, and Justice. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact mjarvis@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.