Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Women and Gender Studies Department Main Navigation ACADEMICS STUDENTS FACULTY ALUMNI ADVISING RESOURCES CONTACT US WGST Home Page Major in Women & Gender Studies Minor in Queer Studies News and Events Student Association "Gender Affirming Closet" Offers Clothing for LGBTQ Students! Learn more here. Download the CSUF Women and Gender Studies and Queer Studies Dept's Statement on AB-1460, the Ethnic Studies requirement. #NotInOurName #WGSTsupportsAB1460 Land Acknowledgement: The CSU Fullerton campus is on the traditional territory and homelands of the Tongva, Kizh, and Acjachemen nations. The Tongva, Kizh, and Acjachemen were the first inhabitants of the Los Angeles basin and surrounding areas, including Orange County. We acknowledge the painful history of dispossession and displacement of these communities throughout this region and honor their on-going, present connection to these lands. CSUF CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services) is now offering additional drop-in support for students, including space for our Asian Pacific Islander Desi/American identified students to get support in light of the recent and on-going racial and gendered violence directed at their communities. Learn more here. PLEASE NOTE: The Women and Gender Studies Student Lounge remains closed due to COVID concerns. The department office in H230 is open during this time. You can also reach us by phone or email at 657.278.3888 or womensstudies@fullerton.edu for assistance. For further COVID-19 information and Spring 2022 updates, please see: http://coronavirus.fullerton.edu/ Congratulations Class of 2022! Welcome to the Women and Gender & Queer Studies Programs! A message in these unprecedented times from the WGST/QS Faculty: The Women and Gender Studies and Queer Studies Department stands in solidarity with our Asian Pacific Islander Desi American (APIDA) communities across the country as they respond to the violence of March 16, the spike in violence and hate crimes that has followed, and the historical systemic racism that predicts such acts. We join in solidarity with CSUF's Asian American Studies Dept. demanding an end to anti-Asian racism and violence and "an end to elected and public leaders’ intentional use of racist, anti-Asian language that scapegoats and blames APIDA communities for the COVID-19 pandemic and other social and political issues." Please read CSUF's ASAM Dept's multiple statements here. #StopAAPIHate As such times demand, we also and simultaneously hold up, affirm, and stand in solidarity with our Black students, colleagues, and communities across the country as they, too, respond to the systemic violence, racism and police violence that continues. Please read CSUF's African American Studies Department's Letter of Support To Our Students. #BlackLivesMatter #AllBlackLivesMatter #TransBlackLivesMatter CSUF's WGST/QS Community is commited to dismantling white supremacy and systemic racism on our campus, in our communities, and across our country. WGST/QS students and faculty working for social justice! About the Women and Gender Studies and Queer Studies Programs: Women and Gender Studies and Queer Studies courses explore the myriad ways in which the culturally-constructed understandings of gender, sexuality, and experiences and meanings related to the body and embodiment shape our identities, cultures and institutions. We pay particular attention to the intersectional modes through which these identity categories, and related effects of power, are experienced, including the influences of racialization, race, and white supremacy, class, religion, citizenship, ableism, heteronorms, and other social categories. Our courses are designed to move students from exploring ideas through a variety of theoretical frames, to the application of these by way of active engagement with contemporary social issues. This can take many forms, including campus and community organizing and activism, writing, research and publishing workshops and opportunities, and occasions to work collaboratively with faculty and other students on a variety of related projects. What you can do with a degree or minor in Women and Gender Studies and/or the minor in Queer Studies: The expertise WGST/QS majors, double majors, and minors gain in critical thinking, research, problem solving, leadership, social justice principles, diversity and global perspectives, and oral/written communication positively distinguish them for a variety of private and public positions, as well as being exceptional preparation for advanced university degrees. WGST/QS graduates have gone on to make significant contributions in the fields of law, social services, arts and literature, education, community development, health, human resources, business, government, psychology, and higher education, among others. Whether you are interested in bolstering your qualifications for employment, or applying to graduate or law school, a degree or minor designation in Women and Gender Studies and/or Queer Studies demonstrates a breadth of knowledge from a diverse, interdisciplinary perspective that positively distinguishes our graduates. Please make an appointment to meet with a WGST/QS faculty member if you'd like more information. This site is maintained by Women and Gender Studies Department. Last Published 5/4/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact kketchum@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.