Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Latin American Studies Main Navigation Academics Show Extended Advising Major Requirements Minor Requirements Courses Resources Show Extended LASSA Study Abroad Faculty Contact Us ABOUT THE PROGRAM Latin American Studies is an interdisciplinary program at California State University, Fullerton. The program draws upon the departments of Anthropology, Business and Economics, Chicana/o Studies, Education, English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics, Geography, History, Modern Languages and Literatures, Political Science, and the Visual and Performing Arts. SPRING 2022 COURSES Available Courses For Fall 2022 Alumni Stories Latin American Alumni Stories Post Graduation About our students Students in the Latin American Studies program come from diverse backgrounds. Many already have cultural ties to a country in Latin America and are fluent in either Spanish or Portuguese. Others are drawn to the breadth of interdisciplinary topics covered within the program. Above all, our students share a profound interest in studying the lands and cultures of Latin America. Alumni have pursued careers in government, journalism, international law, museums and cultural institutions, K-12 education, higher education, tourism, social work, and graduate work related to the field. The Latin American Studies Program Scholarship Amount: Up to $500 Established by: The Latin American Studies Program, CSUF Open to: Undergraduate students at Cal State Fullerton majoring or minoring in Latin American Studies. Criteria: Applicants must have declared a major or minor in Latin American Studies as a degree objective, and successfully completed at least one upper-division course as part of the requirements for the degree. Special consideration given to applicants with an overall GPA of 3.0 or higher and demonstrated financial need. Application Procedure: Please send a brief statement to Dr. Juan R. Ishikawa (jishikawa@fullerton.edu) responding to the following prompt: In a statement of no more than 500 words, please explain why you qualify for Latin American Studies Scholarship based on the criteria listed above and how the scholarship would help you achieve your academic goals. Funds for this scholarship were provided by the Titan Shops Requisition Rewards Program. Application Deadline: December 14, 2022 This site is maintained by Latin American Studies. Last Published 5/10/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jishikawa@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.