Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Sociology Main Navigation MISSION GRAD RECOGNITION ACADEMICS FACULTY STUDENTS ADVISING & TUTORING INTRO VIDEOS CLASS SCHEDULE CONTACT US Instagram CAREERS Welcome to the Department of Sociology Trouble registering for Sociology classes? Please use our permit request form for assistance: Sociology Permit Request Form For further COVID-19 information, please see: http://coronavirus.fullerton.edu/ To add/drop a major or minor in Sociology, or to add/drop a Sociology concentration , please fill out the request on the online major/minor form . Instructions for filling out form can be found on the Records website. Please provide your full name and CWID in your emails: For general assistance please contact us at our sociology email account or you may contact us at 657-278-3531. For undergraduate advising , please email our sociology advising account . Please review our advising page for booking an appointment. Summer advising TBD. For graduate advising , please email Dr. Chin . Her advising appointments can be made on her graduate advising page. To contact the department chair , please email Dr. Torr . Please be sure to include your name, CWID and the reason you would like to speak with her. Dr. Torr's Office Hours: Her appointments are available in-person, via ZOOM or phone Tuesdays, 9:00-10:30am and Wednesdays 9:30-11:00am. Please make an appointment through Dr. Torr's appointment link. Resources Watch: Student Success Strategies Recordings Sociology Resource Guide View Our Class Schedule View Our New and Featured Courses View Our Department Statement Featured Articles CSUF News - April 2021 Daily Titan - March 2021 What is Sociology? Sociology is a social science that studies the social lives and behaviors of people, groups, institutions, and societies. Sociology examines social phenomena at multiple levels by using a variety of methods, including qualitative and quantitative approaches. It covers a wide range of social processes, from the analysis of brief interactions among strangers to the study of large-scale global change. Sociologists ask questions like: What types of social relations and processes create and maintain class or racial inequalities in society? What are the bases of social solidarity, trust and cohesion among people in an organization? What are the social causes and consequences of crime and deviance? How do social movements shape the health care system? What is the role of institutions in regulating gender and sexual behaviors? Are modern societies becoming more secular or more religious? Why Study Sociology? A degree in Sociology is part of a strong program of liberal arts studies that fosters critical thinking and analytical abilities as well as develops the writing and communication skills that prepare students for a diverse and increasingly global job market. Majoring in Sociology prepares students for a wide range of occupations including social work, market research and statistical analysis, education, criminal justice, business and management, graduate school, and community and social services, among others. Sociology at CSU Fullerton The Sociology Department at California State University Fullerton is committed to providing our students with the skills and methods to study social behavior from a sociological perspective. Our mission is to develop among our students a critical, ethical, and inclusive understanding of complex social phenomena. The Department therefore offers rigorous, quality undergraduate and graduate academic programs in Sociology that provide a supportive student-centered learning environment and promote civic engagement in the local and global communities. Land acknowledgement In honor of the indigenous stewards of the land in which Cal State Fullerton is located, the traditional, ancestral and unceded territory and homelands of Acjachemen, Kizh, and Tongva peoples, are acknowledged with sincerity and respect. This site is maintained by Department of Sociology. Last Published 5/26/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jeffcostales@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.