Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Modern Languages and Literatures Main Navigation Academics Show Extended Chinese French German Japanese Persian Spanish TESOL Vietnamese Advisors Faculty Student Clubs Contact Us Scholarships Support Our Department Japanese Faculty Japanese Advisement Japanese Courses BA in Japanese Minor in Japanese Japanese Club Japanese Program The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures offers a wide range of of programs in language study to meet the varying needs of today's students. The ability to communicate effectively is essential for success-oriented graduates, and acquiring the competence to communicate in a language other than English can often provide a competitive edge in today's global economy. Communicating effectively in a second language is more than the acquisition of language skills. Students also gain insight into another culture which often provides ivaluable perspectives and greater sense of appreciation for alternate ways of life and thought.The department views language, culture and literature as integrally related facets of communication that help us achieve better understanding of ourselves and others in the rapidly changing world we live in. The study of a foreign language and culture, as with other humanities and social sciences disciplines, fosters scholarship and values, social responsibility, free and critical inquiry, empirical analysis, and leadership skills. Together, these elements prepare students for intellectually rewarding lives, responsible citizenship, and a wide variety of careers by developing critical thinking, clear writing, problem solving skills, and a heightened understanding of the human condition. The Japanese Program offers courses that lead not just to mastery of the language but also to an understanding of the Japanese culture and people. We feel that learning a language in a social vacuum is not meaningful. Our goal is to enable you to communicate culturally and intellectually with the Japanese people. This site is maintained by Department of Modern Languages and Literatures. Last Published 3/29/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact blruiz@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.