Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Division of Politics, Administration, and Justice Main Navigation Political Science Show Extended Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Minor in Political Science Minor in Law Politics and Society Minor in International Politics Master of Arts in Political Science (MAPS) MAPS Admissions MAPS Alumni FAQs (POSC Undergraduate) Criminal Justice Show Extended Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice Minor in Criminal Justice CRJU 100 Peer Mentor Criminal Justice Awards FAQs (CJ) Public Administration Show Extended Bachelor of Arts in Public Administration (BA) City Management Fellowship Program Minor in Public Administration Minor in Public Policy Career/Internship Opportunities FAQs (PA Undergraduate) Master of Public Administration Program (MPA) MPA Admissions MPA Curriculum Career/Internship Opportunities FAQs (MPA) MPA Alumni MPA News MPA Advisory Board MPA Faculty Research Students Show Extended Application - Undergraduate Clubs and Organizations within PAJ Graduate Studies Graduate Assistant Application - Fall 2021 Internships Office of Admissions Other On-Campus Student Support Scholarships MPA Saltzein Scholarship Application Student Life and Leadership (Clubs and Organizations) Study Abroad Contact Us - Faculty & Staff Show Extended Criminal Justice Faculty Political Science and Public Administration Faculty Part-Time Faculty Advising Make A Gift Cal State DC Scholars Center for Public Policy City Management Fellowship Program Moot Court Town Hall Meeting Nominate an Alumni of the Year BA IN POLITICAL SCIENCE MASTER OF ARTS IN POLITICAL SCIENCE Political Science is the study of people's behavior as it relates to power and public organizations. The discipline is normally divided into six subfields: Political philosophy, which deals with normative questions about how power should be used and distributed, rights and obligations, the nature of justice and the ideal state. American politics, which is concerned with campaigns and elections, parties, elected executives, legislative processes, and issues of public policy. Public administration, which studies the role played by public employees in policy making, planning, personnel management, taxation and finance, and in responding to the needs and problems of communities and the nation. Public law, which involves the judicial process, civil rights and liberties, and the significance of such terms as equal opportunity and due process in the United States. Comparative government, which raises the same questions of politics, administration and law about other countries, and moves toward conclusions based on comparisons between them. International politics, which is concerned with relations between the states and other international actors such as multinational corporations and the United Nations and with the underlying realities of power, based on resources, wealth, military preparedness and national security. Learning Goals Understand the relevance for politics and policy-making of formal political institutions, rules, and processes in the U.S. and cross-nationally. Understand the relevance for politics and policy-making of non-institutional aspects of politics, including the roles of class, race, gender, religion, and political beliefs in the U.S. and cross-nationally. Understand and use different theories and methods of studying politics including understanding the role of theory, both normative and empirical, in political analysis and argumentation. Demonstrate proficiency in the use of various tools of analysis, including library research, computer skills, and data analysis techniques. Understand and use interdisciplinary knowledge important to the study of politics. Be provided with the opportunity through internships to experience politics directly. Be able to think and write clearly, critically and intelligently about politics. A major in political science prepares students for law school, government employment on the local, state and national levels, foreign service, teaching, business, journalism, or leadership in civic and political activities. For prelaw students, the department provides a series of law-related courses numbered in the 370 and 470 series (see course descriptions). There is a prelaw adviser and an active Prelaw Society which enables students to make close and direct contact with the work of attorneys, judges, etc. The department is closely tied to the College Legal Clinic, which provides free legal advice for students and others who cannot afford the usual costs. This site is maintained by Division of Politics, Administration, and Justice. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact mjarvis@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.