Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Modern Languages and Literatures Main Navigation Academics Show Extended Chinese French German Japanese Persian Spanish TESOL Vietnamese Advisors Faculty Student Clubs Contact Us Scholarships Support Our Department Faculty Courses Advisement BA in French Minor in French Teaching Credential Language and Culture Certificates CSU International Programs in French-Speaking Countries French Club News French Program Welcome to the French program in the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures! At CSUF, discover the rich culture of France and the Francophone world. Explore French literature, cinema, art, media, history, philosophy, politics, society, business, institutions and everyday life. Learn to communicate effectively in all four language skills (reading, writing, speaking and listening) and to appreciate fascinating linguistic aspects of the French language. Develop cultural proficiency in various French-language environments, from daily interactions to business and academic settings. Acquire the critical tools necessary to define your own cultural responsibilities in a rapidly changing world. Used as an official language in 55 countries, French is spoken by 500 million persons around the world, including 63 million in France. Knowing French is a highly valued skill today, whether you wish to travel to Francophone countries, study the culture and literature of France, become a French teacher or seek other career opportunities that require a thorough knowledge of French language and culture, such as international business, travel and tourism, journalism and media, publishing, translation, interpretation and diplomacy within governmental and non-governmental organizations. The CSUF Department of Modern Languages and Literatures offers a great array of interdisciplinary French courses, from elementary language classes to advanced seminars, and delivers the following academic degrees and programs: › Bachelor of Arts in French › Single Subject Matter Preparation for the Teaching Credential in French › Minor in French › Concentration in French for the Bachelor of Arts in Int'l Business Other offerings include Intermediate French Language and Culture Certificates, General Education courses, an active French Club, a weekly French Table and CSU-approved International Programs in Paris, Aix-en-Provence and Québec. Stay Connected This site is maintained by Department of Modern Languages and Literatures. Last Published 11/9/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact blruiz@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.