Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Environmental Studies Main Navigation Admissions Courses Forms Candidacy Resources Faculty Student Activities Welcome to Environmental Studies PLEASE NOTE: CSUF is shifting to virtual instruction for the first two weeks of the spring semester (January 22, 2022 through February 6, 2022). Department offices will remain open during this time. You can also reach out by phone or email for assistance. For further COVID-19 information and Spring 2022 updates, please see: http://coronavirus.fullerton.edu/ CSUF's Environmental Studies Program (ENST) opened its doors in the late 1960s, awarded its first degree in the early 1970s, and is still going strong today. It represents a large and academically diverse inter-disciplinary graduate program, offering breadth and flexibility for students wishing to obtain a Master of Science in Environmental Studies. Rather than conforming to a rigidly-defined curriculum, students are encouraged to craft a graduate study plan that meets both the core requirements of the ENST Program and allows them to pursue courses in other departments that suit their own vocational or intellectual goals. Recent graduates work in air quality management, endangered species protection, ecotourism, environmental education, environmental activism. forestry, museum administration, public administration, water quality management, and wetlands restoration. The program draws on excellent instructors and mentors from an array of departments -- anthropology, biology, chemistry, economics, ethnic studies, geography, geology, history, liberal studies, public health, political science, sociology, and more -- as well as highly trained environmental professionals from local and regional government, as well as private environmental firms. Degree Requirements Academic Regulations Alumni Contact Us Kim Bette Program Secretary Email: kbette@fullerton.edu Tel: (657) 278-3162 Office: H-420A Elaine Lewinnek, Ph.D. Chair of Environmental Studies Program Professor of American Studies Email: elewinnek@fullerton.edu Tel.: 657-278-3860 Office: GH-412 Nicole Seymour, Ph.D. Graduate Advisor Associate Professor of English Email: enst_advisor@fullerton.edu Office: GH-440 This site is maintained by Environmental Studies. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact elewinnek@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.