Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Main Navigation About HSS Prospective Students For Students For Faculty Advising Support HSS Contact Us News Calendar Departments & Degrees Study Abroad Cal State DC Research Centers Collective for Justice, Equity, and Transformation Departments and Degree Programs The College of Humanities and Social Sciences (H&SS) provides a traditional liberal arts education that fosters students' intellectual growth, teaching students to look deeply and critically at the world around them. Our mission is to educate students to be culturally, globally, socially, historically and environmentally astute, and civically responsible alumni able to navigate an increasingly complex and interconnected world. Through our 19 departments and programs and nearly 20 research and scholarly centers, H&SS offers students many opportunities for making their academic experience valuable for themselves, for their lives, and for the communities in which they live. For a complete list of our academic offerings, visit the departments and their individual websites. Minors and Certificate Programs Departments African American Studies Aging Studies (formerly Gerontology) American Studies Anthropology Asian American Studies Chicana and Chicano Studies English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics Environmental Studies Geography and the Environment History Latin American Studies Liberal Studies Modern Languages & Literatures Philosophy Politics, Administration, and Justice Psychology Sociology Religious Studies (formerly Comparative Religion) Women and Gender Studies Degree Programs American Studies, B.A. & M.A. Anthropology, B.A. & M.A. Comparative Literature, B.A. Criminal Justice, B.A. English, B.A. & M.A. Environmental Studies, M.S. Ethnic Studies, B.A. African American Studies Asian American Studies Chicana/o Studies French, B.A. Geography and the Environment, B.A. & M.A. Gerontology, M.S. History, B.A. & M.A. Japanese, B.A. Latin American Studies, B.A. Liberal Studies, B.A. Linguistics, B.A. & M.A. Philosophy, B.A. Political Science, B.A. & M.A. Psychology, B.A. & M.A. Psychology (Clinical), M.S. Public Administration, B.A. & M.P.A. Religious Studies, B.A. Sociology, B.A. & M.A. Spanish, B.A. & M.A. TESOL, M.S. Women & Gender Studies, B.A. Department Directory This site is maintained by College of Humanities and Social Sciences. Last Published 5/6/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact avanfleet@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.