Skip to main content Mini nav Search Contact Support HST Login Top navigation About Us Our Vitals Our Values Leadership & Staff Administrative Resources Contact Us Admissions Applying to the MD Program Applying to the Medical Engineering and Medical Physics (MEMP) PhD Program Applying to the GEMS Certificate Program Applying to the Summer Institute in Biomedical Optics Academic Programs MD Program PhD Program (MEMP) Graduate Education in Medical Sciences (GEMS) Certificate Program HST-Wellman Summer Institute for Biomedical Optics Registration Financial Support Forms and Useful Links Courses Faculty & Research Faculty Finding a Lab Entrepreneurial Opportunities Information for UROP Supervisors Students Student Spotlights Student Life Student Resources and Support Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Spotlights Support HST News & Events Events & Academic Calendar Community Awards HST Forum HST Graduation TWiHST Newsletter ShutDownSTEM HST Graduation Celebration HST's Graduation is a community celebration to recognize the accomplishments of the graduating class. May 25, 2022, 10am-1pm MIT Media Lab _________________________ Information for Graduates Congratulations! We are all very proud of you and look forward to seeing you on May 25. The following is important information for RSVPing, what to wear, where to go, and what to expect: 1. RSVP by Friday, April 29. (Even if you cannot attend, please complete the RSVP) 2. Please arrive at 10:00 am at the Media Lab, Building E14, 6th floor on the MIT campus on May 25. A class picture will be taken around 10:15 am. Our celebration program begins at 10:30 am. Graduates will have reserved seating in alphabetical order at the front of the hall. The program includes remarks by the Directors, other dignitaries, the student speaker and distribution of gifts to each candidate. The formal program will be followed by a reception. 3. Information about caps, gowns, and hoods: Caps, gowns, and hoods are not expected at the HST Graduation Celebration. Please see details about regalia under section on Harvard and MIT Commencement Details 4. Paper tickets are not used for HST's Graduation Celebration. Simply check in at the Registration table on the 6th floor of the Media Lab Building E14 on HST Graduation Day; your names will be on the RSVP list. Information for Faculty, Students (non-graduating), Staff, Alumni and Friends 1. RSVP by Friday May 15 graduating students do not need to fill out this form, but see information in "Information for Graduates" section 2. Please arrive by 10:15am at the Media Lab, Building E14, 6th floor, on the MIT campus. The formal part of our program begins at 10:30 am. The graduation exercises include remarks by the Directors, other dignitaries, and the student speaker, as well as the distribution of gifts to each candidate. The graduation program will run until 11:30 am and is followed by a reception. 3. There is no procession. Regalia is not expected. Schedule Wednesday, May 25, 2022: 10:00am Graduating students arrive 10:15am Graduating students' group picture 10:30am Program faculty and student comments recognition of each graduate address from the HST Alumni Association ~11:30am Reception Directions and Parking MIT Media Lab MIT Campus Building E14-6th floor (Map) Corner of Amherst and Carleton Streets Cambridge, Massachusetts By Public Transportation Take the #1, CT1 or MASCO shuttle bus to 77 Massachusetts Ave. Proceed East on Massachusetts Ave. to the intersection of Memorial Drive. Turn East on Memorial Drive and walk to Ames Street. Turn left. Building E14 is at the next intersection, on your right. The entrance is at the corner of Amherst and Carleton Streets. The Media Lab is also accessible by the Red Line or CT2. Get off at Kendall Square/MIT. Proceed down Carleton St. to Amherst St. The entrance to Media Lab Building E14 is at this intersection on your right. For more information visit http://www.mbta.com By Car The MIT Parking Office has information on Public/Visitor Parking in the area. Harvard and MIT Commencement Details Harvard Medical School Thursday, May 26, 2022 HMS Commencement page Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Thursday, May 26, 2022 GSAS Commencement page Massachusetts Institute of Technology Thursday & Friday, May 26-27, 2022 MIT Commencement page Regalia For MDs and PhDs, a hood is part of the traditional regalia in addition to cap and gown. The hood is a stole that is formally installed over your head and shoulders; hoods are black and lined with the color or colors of the institution conferring the degree, with velvet trim signifying the subject of your degree. MD students and Harvard PhDs obtain hoods when renting their caps and gowns at the Harvard Coop. https://store.thecoop.com/harvard-regalia/ MIT PhDs will receive their hoods at the Investiture of Doctoral Hoods and Degree Conferral Ceremony on Thursday, May 26. https://commencement.mit.edu/graduates/regalia COVID Guidelines HST's Celebration is on the MIT campus, so we will be following Commencement Guidelines posted here: https://commencement.mit.edu/guests/guest-faq For more information please e-mail hst-graduation [at] mit.edu Spotlight Professor Sangeeta Bhatia’s salute from the faculty Side navigation Events & Academic Calendar Community Awards HST Forum HST Graduation Form for AY22 Graduates RSVP - General TWiHST Newsletter ShutDownSTEM 77 Massachusetts Avenue Room E25-518 Cambridge, MA 02139 +1 617-452-4091 hst@mit.edu Irving M. London Society 260 Longwood Avenue TMEC 213 Boston, MA 02115 +1-617-432-1738 hst@mit.edu Newsletter This Week in HST Facebook Twitter Instagram Accessibility