Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries Contact Visit Databases Search Collections Herbaria Digital Collections Use Policies Sending Material to the Herbaria Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Publications About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Libraries Libraries' Collections Archives Collections Digital Collections Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Libraries Staff Online Exhibits Harvard's Online Library Catalog (HOLLIS) News & Events News Events People About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities HOME / LIBRARIES / Archives Collections Announcement 2/24/2022: The Botany Libraries welcomes back all visitors to the reading room beginning Monday Feb. 28, 2022. Non Harvard ID holders will need to call 617-495-2366 upon arrival into the Herbarium lobby for access to the second floor. All visitors will need to follow the Harvard Library Visitor Access COVID-19 Guidance. The Botany Libraries Archives is the Harvard University Herbaria's repository of historical papers, images, and institutional records. The materials in our archives come from the following collections: The Arnold Arboretum The Bailey-Wetmore Wood Collection The Botanical Museum Collection The Economic Botany Herbarium The Farlow Herbarium The Gray Herbarium The Henry David Thoreau Herbarium The New England Botanical Club The Oakes Ames Orchid Herbarium Archives Paleobotanical Collections The Rudolf and Leopold Blaschka Glass Flower Archives The Tina & R.Gordon Wasson Ethnomycological Collection Archives Search for archival collections using HOLLIS. Explore finding aids, which provide detailed descriptions of archival materials, for select collections using HOLLIS for Archival Discovery. The archival collections of the Botany Libraries are open without fee to all adult researchers regardless of academic affiliation. Researchers may consult materials from the archives only by advance appointment. To make an appointment please contact botref@oeb.harvard.edu. Please allow one week for the processing of requests. In general, we can only accommodate one archives researcher at a time. Once an appointment is confirmed materials must be requested using HOLLIS Special Request. Visit the HOLLIS Special Request instructions for information on creating an account, placing a request, ordering reproductions, and saving lists of materials in which you are interested. Researchers can also add items to their HOLLIS Special Request account directly from Harvard’s finding aid portal HOLLIS for Archival Discovery. Learn more about requesting items from HOLLIS for Archival Discovery. If you do not already have a HOLLIS Special Request account, you will be prompted to create one upon submitting your requests from the finding aid. Further Information: Use Policies Visiting the Herbaria Permission to Publish harvard_square_1903.jpg Harvard Square, 1903 Image from the J.F. Collins Archives Botany Libraries Libraries' Overview Use of the Libraries Archives Collections Personal Papers Administrative Correspondence Institutional Inventories Expeditions & Exploration Plant Lists & Field Notes Photographic Materials Illustrations & Artwork Artifacts & Specimens Digital Collections Online Exhibits Image Credit Index Contact Us Send inquiries, comments, corrections or updates to botref@oeb.harvard.edu Botany Libraries 22 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 phone 617.495.2366 Herbaria p: 617-495-2365 f: 617-495-9484 huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu Libraries p: 617-495-2366 botref@oeb.harvard.edu 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 https://twitter.com/HarvardHerbaria https://www.flickr.com/photos/huh/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNiB6-JBqf3hz69NAXticBQ Affiliates Arnold Arboretum Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Harvard Forest Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement