Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries Contact Visit Databases Search Collections Herbaria Digital Collections Use Policies Sending Material to the Herbaria Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Publications About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Libraries Libraries' Collections Archives Collections Digital Collections Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Libraries Staff Online Exhibits Harvard's Online Library Catalog (HOLLIS) News & Events News Events People About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities HOME / NEWS & EVENTS / NEWS / New Publication - Powdery mildews on Quercus April 13, 2022 HUH Research Fellow Michael Bradshaw and colleagues have a new publication in the journal Forest Pathology. In "Powdery mildews on Quercus: A worldwide distribution and rediscovered holotype provide insights into the spread of these ecologically important pathogens," the authors emphasize the importance of sequencing type specimens of powdery mildews, especially regarding morphologically alike species on similar hosts. Abstract: Powdery mildew on oak, caused by Erysiphe spp., has been shown to have serious ecological consequences on a range of Quercus hosts. Erysiphe alphitoides and E. quercicola are two of the most heavily studied and common powdery mildews known to occur on Quercus species. In recent years, these species have been noted throughout the world on a range of hosts within and outside the Quercus genus. Reports that E. alphitoides was absent in European herbaria before 1921 and the discovery of the holotype of E. alphitoides from 1911 in an American herbarium (FH) led to the current study in which we genetically analysed six specimens of E. alphitoides s. lat including, most importantly, the holotype of E. alphitoides from France collected in 1911. The results of our analyses revealed that: (1) The sequence of the E. alphitoides holotype falls within the E. quercicola clade, confirming that E. alphitoides did not spread to Europe until ~1921. (2) E. alphitoides var. chenii forms a monophyletic clade with E. epigena and should be reduced to synonymy with that species and (3) through sequence analyses E. alphitoides and E. quercicola are confirmed to have spread to North America. The sequencing results of the E. alphitoides holotype have severe nomenclatural-taxonomic consequences. A proposal was submitted simultaneously with the present manuscript to conserve the name E. alphitoides so that the traditional usage of the names E. alphitoides and E. quercicola could be maintained. The sequences obtained for the current study provide new insight into the taxonomy and spread of these ecologically significant, globally distributed species. The present study highlights the importance of sequencing specimens from type material, above all when morphological similar species are involved. Bradshaw, M., Braun, U., & Pfister, D. H. (2022). Powdery mildews on Quercus: A worldwide distribution and rediscovered holotype provide insights into the spread of these ecologically important pathogens. Forest Pathology, 00:e12742. https://doi.org/10.1111/efp.12742 Recent News New publication - Jane Gray’s Framing of Asa Gray Staff Spotlight - Saima Javed New Publication - Powdery mildews on Quercus New Publication - Apothecial Ancestry, Evolution, and Re-Evolution in Thelebolales (Leotiomycetes, Fungi) Specimen Spotlight - What does it mean to be green?More Herbaria p: 617-495-2365 f: 617-495-9484 huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu Libraries p: 617-495-2366 botref@oeb.harvard.edu 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 https://twitter.com/HarvardHerbaria https://www.flickr.com/photos/huh/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNiB6-JBqf3hz69NAXticBQ Affiliates Arnold Arboretum Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Harvard Forest Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement