Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries Contact Visit Databases Search Collections Herbaria Digital Collections Use Policies Sending Material to the Herbaria Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Publications About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Libraries Libraries' Collections Archives Collections Digital Collections Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Libraries Staff Online Exhibits Harvard's Online Library Catalog (HOLLIS) News & Events News Events People About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities Announcement 01/04/2021: Appointments are required to use the Herbaria; please email huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu to make arrangements. For the Botany Libraries, see our hours and policies, or email botref@oeb.harvard.edu for assistance. Please refer to Harvard's dedicated Coronavirus (COVID-19) website for campus updates & FAQs: https://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus. What is a Herbarium? Herbaria hold the tools for our understanding of the plant world Our Mission Botany Libraries The Harvard University Herbaria house five comprehensive, non-circulating research libraries The Famous Glass Flowers The Glass Flowers are considered one of the University's greatest treasures and is the only collection of its kind in the world Thoreau's Herbarium Hundreds of images from Henry David Thoreau's collection have been made available online The Harvard University Herbaria include six collections and more than five million specimens of algae, bryophytes, fungi, and vascular plants. Together they form one of the largest university herbarium collections in the world, and the third largest herbarium in the United States. With their state-of-the art research laboratories and world class libraries, the HUH have been a centerpiece of biodiversity science since the early 1800s. What is an herbarium?Use of the CollectionsDigital CollectionsVisitor Policy Loan Policy Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging The Harvard University Herbaria (HUH) community denounces all forms of racism, harassment, and discrimination. We recognize the painful legacy of prejudice in which marginalized groups, especially scientists of color, who work across plant biology and academia have been made to feel unwelcome. With our colleagues across Harvard (here, here and here) and in the botanical science and natural history communities, we stand ready to confront systematic racism and are committed to the creation of an inclusive and welcoming community in the HUH. We commit to the creation of a society in which all individuals are valued and in which diversity is welcomed, whether in race, gender identity, age, socioeconomic background, religion, ethnicity, ability, language, sexual orientation, or veteran status. To these ends, we are engaged in a rigorous examination of our own institutional and interpersonal practices, and are committed to the ethical stewardship of the collections we hold in trust. We particularly want to invite all scientists to take advantage of funding opportunities that are a critical component to diversifying our community. Please join us in this important work. Featured Collection - Arnold Arboretum Arnold Arboretum Contains approximately 1.5 million specimens, especially strong in material from the Indo-Malesian region (India to the Philippines and Papuasia), China, Japan and eastern, and southeastern Asia. › Learn more Recent News New publication - Jane Gray’s Framing of Asa Gray April 27, 2022 Jane Gray’s Framing of Asa Gray through Autobiography, Biography, and Correspondence... Read more about New publication - Jane Gray’s Framing of Asa Gray Staff Spotlight - Saima Javed April 20, 2022 Saima Javed’s journey to the Herbaria began... Read more about Staff Spotlight - Saima Javed New Publication - Powdery mildews on Quercus April 13, 2022 HUH Research Fellow Michael Bradshaw and colleagues have a new publication... Read more about New Publication - Powdery mildews on Quercus More HUH Tweets LeotioLover Not all yellow fairy cups are Bisporella @harvard_oeb @harvardherbaria @mycologia #Bisporella#Calycina#Eustilbum#Bispora#diversity#systematics#taxonomy#funga#fungilove#postdoclife#research#fairycups t.co/VpuytQim6i 5 days 21 hours ago. HarvardHerbaria Curatorial staff recently spent time cleaning #diatom #slides from the mid-1800s in the J.W. Bailey Diatom Collection of the #FarlowHerbarium. #FH #HerbariumLife t.co/BXisKOLVVG 2 weeks 1 min ago. FIULACC Dr. Kanchi Gandhi Leads Innovative Graduate Student Course on Latin America and Caribbean Plant Taxonomy and Nomenclature Read more through the link in our bio, under “LACC News” 🗞 t.co/mF8ml74h32 3 weeks 21 hours ago. Herbaria p: 617-495-2365 f: 617-495-9484 huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu Libraries p: 617-495-2366 botref@oeb.harvard.edu 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 https://twitter.com/HarvardHerbaria https://www.flickr.com/photos/huh/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNiB6-JBqf3hz69NAXticBQ Affiliates Arnold Arboretum Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Harvard Forest Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement