Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries Contact Visit Databases Search Collections Herbaria Digital Collections Use Policies Sending Material to the Herbaria Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Publications About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Libraries Libraries' Collections Archives Collections Digital Collections Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Libraries Staff Online Exhibits Harvard's Online Library Catalog (HOLLIS) News & Events News Events People About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities HOME / RESEARCH / Floristics & Monography Floristics is the science of identifying the diversity of plants across a given geographic region. Monography is the comprehensive global treatment of a taxon or clade of interest. The Harvard University Herbaria have a long history in these pursuits, beginning with the most famous early contributions by Asa Gray, who was interested in the flora of North America and its biogeographic connections to Eastern Asia. Today, active floristic research pursued in the field and Herbaria is focused in Asia, South America, and New England. These efforts are helping to address a range of topics, from characterizing poorly known regions of the world, such as the Hengduan Mountains of China, to understanding fine-scale impacts of recent global change across New England. Eastern Asia & the Hengduan Mountains David Boufford is focused on eastern Asia and the Hengduan Mountain region of China. The more than 200,000 collections made by Boufford and his collaborators also include silica-gel samples for cutting edge molecular study. The Hengduan website also includes the greatest number of documented photos of Chinese plants in the world. Climate Change & New England As part of a project to document changes in plant distributions related to climate change, Charles Davis and his collaborators are currently digitizing the more than one million specimens of vascular plants from across New England, the majority of which reside at Harvard. Neotropical Orchids in South America Gustavo Romero focuses on studies of several genera of neotropical orchids, and floristic work in the remote upper Orinoco (Venezuela) and Rio Negro (Brazil, Colombia, and Venezuela) river basins. Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Related Researchers David E. Boufford Charles Davis Gustavo A. Romero Herbaria p: 617-495-2365 f: 617-495-9484 huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu Libraries p: 617-495-2366 botref@oeb.harvard.edu 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 https://twitter.com/HarvardHerbaria https://www.flickr.com/photos/huh/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNiB6-JBqf3hz69NAXticBQ Affiliates Arnold Arboretum Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Harvard Forest Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement