Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries Contact Visit Databases Search Collections Herbaria Digital Collections Use Policies Sending Material to the Herbaria Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Publications About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Libraries Libraries' Collections Archives Collections Digital Collections Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Libraries Staff Online Exhibits Harvard's Online Library Catalog (HOLLIS) News & Events News Events People About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities HOME / Harvard Papers in Botany Harvard Papers in Botany (HPB) is a refereed journal that welcomes longer monographic and floristic accounts of plants and fungi, as well as papers concerning economic botany, systematic botany, molecular phylogenetics, the history of botany, and relevant and significant bibliographies, as well as book reviews. Harvard Papers in Botany is open to all who wish to contribute. For information on historical journals, see the About page. Manuscript Submission To help defray the rising costs of publication and support several online initiatives, manuscripts published in Harvard Papers in Botany are subject to a voluntary page charge of US $50.00 per printed page. More information is available for download. Manuscripts, including tables and figures, should be submitted on a CD or DVD, or via email as attachments. The text should be in a major word-processing program in a Windows, Mac, or compatible format. Authors should include a completed Submission Checklist with the submission. Authors should include approximate locations of tables and figures. Please note, authors writing monographs should include an Index to Numbered Collections at the end of their papers. The HPB submission deadline for the June issue is January 1, and for the December issue the deadline is July 1. For further details about format and layout, see manuscript preparation. For questions or comments, please contact: Gustavo Romero, Editor Harvard Papers in Botany Harvard University Herbaria 22 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 papers@oeb.harvard.edu p: (617) 495-2365 f: (617) 495-9484 Harvard Papers in Botany About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Herbaria p: 617-495-2365 f: 617-495-9484 huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu Libraries p: 617-495-2366 botref@oeb.harvard.edu 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 https://twitter.com/HarvardHerbaria https://www.flickr.com/photos/huh/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNiB6-JBqf3hz69NAXticBQ Affiliates Arnold Arboretum Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Harvard Forest Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement