Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries Contact Visit Databases Search Collections Herbaria Digital Collections Use Policies Sending Material to the Herbaria Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Publications About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Libraries Libraries' Collections Archives Collections Digital Collections Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Libraries Staff Online Exhibits Harvard's Online Library Catalog (HOLLIS) News & Events News Events People About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities HOME / RESEARCH / Taxonomy Taxonomy is the science of discovering, naming, and describing the species diversity on our planet. Ongoing research in this area involves focused taxonomic research, and especially the International Plant Names Index (IPNI). IPNI is a dynamic nomenclatural database containing essential bibliographical details on plant names. This resource forms the foundation for all downstream research in ecology and evolution. HUH and its partners, The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and the Australian National Herbarium, make these data freely available to the broader botanical community. IPNI A global authority of taxonomic names. Search the database here. Malpighiaceae nomenclature Malpighiaceae are a family of tropical trees, shrubs, and vines that constitute an important element in the forests and savannas of both the New and Old World tropics and subtropics. Working with Professor William Anderson and Dr. Christiane Anderson (UMICH), Professor Charles Davis has helped to develop an interactive website to make research in this family available to the broader community. This site provide updated nomenclature for hundreds of species in addition to a current phylogeny of the family, a list of the clades and genera recognized, descriptions and maps, and identification keys. Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Related Researchers Charles Davis Herbaria p: 617-495-2365 f: 617-495-9484 huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu Libraries p: 617-495-2366 botref@oeb.harvard.edu 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 https://twitter.com/HarvardHerbaria https://www.flickr.com/photos/huh/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNiB6-JBqf3hz69NAXticBQ Affiliates Arnold Arboretum Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Harvard Forest Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement