Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries Contact Visit Databases Search Collections Herbaria Digital Collections Use Policies Sending Material to the Herbaria Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Publications About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Libraries Libraries' Collections Archives Collections Digital Collections Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Libraries Staff Online Exhibits Harvard's Online Library Catalog (HOLLIS) News & Events News Events People About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities HOME / ABOUT / Research Funding Opportunities The HUH is pleased to offer resources to help researchers fund their work through travel grants and fellowships. The resources vary in focus, eligibility and application process. Please see the individual descriptions below for more details. For more information on our funding opportunites, please contact huhgrants@oeb.harvard.edu. HUH Travel Grant (PDF) The Harvard University Herbaria awards travel grants for research in plant, fungal, and algal biodiversity to non-Harvard researchers wishing to conduct research at the HUH. The principal objective of these grants is to stimulate systematic research on neglected taxa or little studied regions of the world. Of particular interest are taxa with numerous poorly described species in institutional collections. We also encourage use of our libraries. Proposals are reviewed twice a year; application deadlines are 15 October and 1 April. HUH Research Fellowship The Harvard University Herbaria Research Fellowship is a plant and/or fungal science fellowship awarded for two years under the mentorship of a Harvard University faculty member. The goal of the program is to facilitate collections-based research using resources at the HUH which include more than five million specimens of algae, bryophytes, fungi, and vascular plants with complementary Libraries and Archives. The collection includes herbarium sheet material of extant species as well as a paleobotanical and archaeobotanical collection and artifacts of economically important plants and fungi. Fellowships are awarded through a competitive review process. Applications are accepted annually online only through ARIeS in the Fall. Farlow Fellowship The Farlow Fellowship, a 1-year fellowship with renewal possible for up to 3 years, aims to facilitate research on and curation of the collections at the Farlow Herbarium, the HUH unit that contains more than 1.5 million specimens of fungi, bryophytes, algae, and lichens. Applications are sought from early career individuals with a research program involving collection-based taxonomy and/or systematics in groups represented in the Farlow collection, as well as a strong interest in the curation and stewardship of the collection. Applications are sought approximately every 3 years; the next application period is expected to be in Fall 2022. Friends of the Farlow Fellowships The Friends of the Farlow supports fellowships for graduate student and professional study at the Farlow. Visit the FoF website for details. Grants-in-Aid of Undergraduate Research The Museum of Comparative Zoology (MCZ), the Harvard University Herbaria (HUH), and the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University (AA) are pleased to award small grants in support of faculty-supervised research by Harvard College undergraduates. Funds from the HUH are primarily available to support projects in the field of plant biology. Priority is given to first-time applicants. Awards range from $500 to $4,000 and may provide support for the academic year (fall and spring semesters) or summer. About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities Herbaria p: 617-495-2365 f: 617-495-9484 huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu Libraries p: 617-495-2366 botref@oeb.harvard.edu 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 https://twitter.com/HarvardHerbaria https://www.flickr.com/photos/huh/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNiB6-JBqf3hz69NAXticBQ Affiliates Arnold Arboretum Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Harvard Forest Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement