Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries Contact Visit Databases Search Collections Herbaria Digital Collections Use Policies Sending Material to the Herbaria Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Publications About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Libraries Libraries' Collections Archives Collections Digital Collections Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Libraries Staff Online Exhibits Harvard's Online Library Catalog (HOLLIS) News & Events News Events People About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities HOME / LIBRARIES / USE OF THE LIBRARIES / Permissions The depth and breadth of the collections results in the vast majority of Botany Libraries material being either in the public domain or under copyrights not controlled by the Botany Libraries or Harvard University Herbaria. Permission to Photograph materials Researchers may photograph unrestricted materials for research purposes using a hand held camera or mobile phone. Flash photography, hand held scanners, and tripods are not permitted. Photography or recordings of moving images or audio is not permitted. Archives, rare books, and fragile materials may not be photocopied or scanned. Permission to Quote The Botany Libraries does not require that researchers request permission to quote from our collection's material unless Harvard holds the copyright, nor do we charge permission or use fees. Permission, however, may be needed from non-Harvard copyright holders. Researchers are responsible for investigating and following all applicable copyright rules and regulations. Permission to Publish The Botany Libraries encourage the use of our public domain digital images in scholarly and general publications without charge as a means of broadening accessibility to researchers and the general public. Permission is not needed to reproduce our public domain images but we request that researchers cite the source. To inquire about using non-public domain images or placing a digitization order please email botref@oeb.harvard.edu first. Library staff will let you know if you need to place a Hollis Special Request order and/or complete the Permission to reproduce and publish images form. Please note that the use of images acquired from the Botany Libraries for display on websites, DVD, CD-ROM, television broadcast, or other electronic media may require the Multi-Media Licensing Agreement which can be requested by emailing botref@oeb.harvard.edu. For material protected by copyright, certain uses (including but not limited to quoting, publishing, and reproducing) may require permission from the copyright holder. When permission is required, it’s the researcher’s responsibility to obtain such permissions. The following resources may be helpful in this regard: Copyright Term and the Public Domain in the United States, published by the Cornell University Copyright Information Center, can help researchers to determine if a work is in the public domain. Harvard University's Office of Scholarly Communications Fair Use Guide explains fair use and gives advice on determining if your use of a copyrighted item falls under the fair use statute. Botany Libraries Libraries' Overview Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Citations and Credits Archives Collections Digital Collections Online Exhibits Image Credit Index Contact Us Send inquiries, comments, corrections or updates to botref@oeb.harvard.edu Botany Libraries 22 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 phone 617.495.2366 Herbaria p: 617-495-2365 f: 617-495-9484 huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu Libraries p: 617-495-2366 botref@oeb.harvard.edu 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 https://twitter.com/HarvardHerbaria https://www.flickr.com/photos/huh/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNiB6-JBqf3hz69NAXticBQ Affiliates Arnold Arboretum Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Harvard Forest Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement