Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries Contact Visit Databases Search Collections Herbaria Digital Collections Use Policies Sending Material to the Herbaria Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Publications About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Libraries Libraries' Collections Archives Collections Digital Collections Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Libraries Staff Online Exhibits Harvard's Online Library Catalog (HOLLIS) News & Events News Events People About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities HOME / LIBRARIES / Libraries' Overview Announcement 2/24/2022: The Botany Libraries welcomes back all visitors to the reading room beginning Monday Feb. 28, 2022. Non Harvard ID holders will need to call 617-495-2366 upon arrival into the Herbarium lobby for access to the second floor. All visitors will need to follow the Harvard Library Visitor Access COVID-19 Guidance. The Harvard University Herbaria house five comprehensive libraries managed collectively as the Botany Libraries. These non-circulating reference collections are world-wide in scope and include many rare copies and special editions. Each of the libraries have archives that document the associated specimen collections. The Arnold Arboretum Library in Cambridge specializes in the identification and classification of Old World plants with emphasis on Asia. Subject areas cover systematic botany, floras of the Old World, taxonomy, dendrology, early forestry, and other materials on woody plants. This library's holdings appear in HOLLIS and HOLLIS for Archival Discovery as Botany Arnold (Cambr.) The Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library in Jamaica Plain supports the living collections. This library's holdings appear in HOLLIS and HOLLIS for Archival Discovery as Botany Arboretum. The Economic Botany Library of Oakes Ames specializes in materials related to economic botany or the commercial exploitation of plants. Subject areas cover ethnobotany, medicinal plants, hallucinogens and narcotics, crop plants, edible and poisonous plants, herbals and other rare pre-Linnean works, and Linneana. This library's holdings appear in HOLLIS and HOLLIS for Archival Discovery as Botany Econ. Botany. The Farlow Reference Library of Cryptogamic Botany specializes in organisms that reproduce by spores, without flowers or seeds. Subject areas cover fungi, bryophytes, lichens, algae, and pre-Linnean works. The library's holdings appear in HOLLIS and HOLLIS for Archival Discovery as Botany Farlow Library. The Gray Herbarium Library specializes in the identification and classification of New World plants with emphasis on North American plants. Subject areas cover systematic botany, taxonomy, floras of the New World, bibliography, the history of botany, and pre-Linnean works. The library's holdings appear in HOLLIS and HOLLIS for Archival Discovery as Botany Gray Herbarium. The Oakes Ames Orchid Library specializes exclusively on the identification and classification of the orchid family or Orchidaceae. The library's holdings appear in HOLLIS and HOLLIS for Archival Discovery as Botany Ames Orchid. Botany Libraries Main Reading Room Botany Libraries Libraries' Overview Use of the Libraries Archives Collections Digital Collections Online Exhibits Image Credit Index Contact Us Send inquiries, comments, corrections or updates to botref@oeb.harvard.edu Botany Libraries 22 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 phone 617.495.2366 Herbaria p: 617-495-2365 f: 617-495-9484 huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu Libraries p: 617-495-2366 botref@oeb.harvard.edu 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 https://twitter.com/HarvardHerbaria https://www.flickr.com/photos/huh/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNiB6-JBqf3hz69NAXticBQ Affiliates Arnold Arboretum Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Harvard Forest Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement