Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Herbaria & Libraries Contact Visit Databases Search Collections Herbaria Digital Collections Use Policies Sending Material to the Herbaria Research Taxonomy Floristics & Monography Plant & Fungal Phylogenetics Paleobotany Plant Speciation and Local Adaptation Forest Ecosystem Carbon Dynamics Publications About HPB Orders & Access For Authors Libraries Libraries' Collections Archives Collections Digital Collections Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Libraries Staff Online Exhibits Harvard's Online Library Catalog (HOLLIS) News & Events News Events People About History Mission Contact Visit Research Funding Opportunities HOME / LIBRARIES / USE OF THE LIBRARIES / Resources HOLLIS: Search Botany holdings in Harvard's online catalog, HOLLIS. Cambridge holdings appear as: Botany Ames Orchid: Oakes Ames Orchid Library Botany Arnold (Cambr.): Library of the Arnold Arboretum Botany Econ. Botany: Economic Botany Library of Oakes Ames Botany Farlow Library: Farlow Reference Library of Cryptogamic Botany Botany Gray Herbarium: Library of the Gray Herbarium Botany Gray/Arnold: Combined Gray/Arnold holdings HOLLIS for Archival Discovery: Explore collection guides, finding aids, and inventories to locate unique materials in Harvard's special collections and archives. How to use Harvard’s special collections and archives BHL: Search the digital collections of the Biodiversity Heritage Library, world-wide collaboration of natural history libraries committed to providing open access to select biodiversity literature. Most of the Botany Libraries scanned books and many archival items are available here. BHL Libguide Digital Collections: Free public access to digital objects from the Harvard collections, including art, documents, and audio/visual materials. Searchable across all objects. CURIOsity: Curated exhibits of digital objects from Harvard collections, with specialized search options. HUH Databases Botanists: Search for authors of botanical names, collectors of botanical specimens, and authors of botanical publications. Publications: Search for titles and abbreviations of botanical publications with authors, dates of publication and BPH and TL2 references. Specimens: Search for specimen records, primarily type specimens from the Harvard University Herbaria and New England Botanical Club served from our Specify6 specimen database. IPNI (International Plant Name Index). Search for names and associated basic bibliographical details of all vascular plants. TL-2 (Taxonomic Literature, 2nd ed.) offers comprehensive bibliographical and biographical coverage for systematic botany literature published between 1753 and 1940. The International Fossil Plant Names Index is a global registry of scientific names of fossil organisms covered by the International Code of Nomenclature for Algae, Fungi, and Plants (formerly International Code of Botanical Nomenclature) and International Code of Zoological Nomenclature. Harvard/Radcliffe Online Historical Reference Shelf provides searchable access to Harvard and Radcliffe annual reports from circa 1825-1995. Missouri Botanical Garden. The Peter H. Raven Library Catalog. New York Botanical Garden. The Mertz Library Catalog. The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. Library and Archives Catalog. JSTOR Global Plants (Access Requires a Harvard ID) Botany Libraries Libraries' Overview Use of the Libraries Hours Resources Services Permissions Citations and Credits Archives Collections Digital Collections Online Exhibits Image Credit Index Contact Us Send inquiries, comments, corrections or updates to botref@oeb.harvard.edu Botany Libraries 22 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 phone 617.495.2366 Herbaria p: 617-495-2365 f: 617-495-9484 huh-requests@oeb.harvard.edu Libraries p: 617-495-2366 botref@oeb.harvard.edu 22 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 https://twitter.com/HarvardHerbaria https://www.flickr.com/photos/huh/ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNiB6-JBqf3hz69NAXticBQ Affiliates Arnold Arboretum Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Harvard Forest Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement