Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Vaccine/Booster Clinic Calendar COVID-19 About Patient Portal c2ec283c66e63036a9e7901d61189130 Harvard University Health Services Get Care Find a Clinician Patients & Visitors Get Help Now Patient Portal Make an Appointment Locations & Hours Billing & Online Payment Care Coordination Eligibility & Insurance Medical Records & Immunizations New Students Patient Advocate Request a Referral Telemedicine at HUHS Announcements HOME / COVID-19 INFORMATION / Testing, Exposure, Isolation, & Quarantine As COVID-19 cases fluctuate in our community, locally and nationally, we have gathered a list of FAQs to help you navigate the policies and procedures related to testing, exposure, isolation, and quarantine. For the University's full guidance on exposure, quarantine, and isolation visit https://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus/testing-tracing/exposure-quarantine-isolation. For a complete list of the University’s coronavirus policies, procedures, and FAQ’s visit www.harvard.edu/coronavirus/faq. For a selection of documents designed to help navigate the testing, exposure, isolation, and quarantine processes please visit our COVID-19 document library. These documents are provided in English, Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese, and Spanish. We understand that as the pandemic evolves, we have updated our policies in response to and with guidance from the CDC and the Massachusetts Department of Public Health. Thank you for your flexibility and patience during this time. If there are additional recommendations, we will continue to monitor and update this page as needed. If you are a patient who is considered by your healthcare provider as being in a moderate to severe immunocompromised state, this requires you to take precautions that many other people do not have to consider in your daily life. View COVID-19 FAQs for Immunocompromised People Watch our Health and Wellness Educators speak about topics such as how to stay well during cold and flu season and answer your most commonly asked questions regarding COVID-19, contact tracing, and cold and flu symptoms. Healthy Harvard on Instagram Experiencing Symptoms What should I bring with me in case I have to isolate with COVID-19? If you have to isolate, it is recommended that you have the following items already in your room/apartment/home: A digital thermometer Face masks (3-ply surgical masks, for example) Hand sanitizer and tissues (2-3 boxes) Over-the counter medication (if you are able to take): For fever: Acetaminophen (Tylenol ®, Paracetamol ®, or Panadol ®). Ibuprofen (Motrin ® or Advil ®). Cough medicine: such as Guaifenesin (Robitussin ®) Throat lozenges: such as Cepacol ®, cough drops. For nasal congestion and stuffiness: Decongestant (such as Phenylephrine (Sudafed-PE ®), Nasal spray-Saline mist, Ocean ®). 5 days' worth of clean clothing and personal items: such as toothbrush, toothpaste, prescription medication (if applicable), clean sheets. Please note, when in isolation you are not able to do laundry. Optional: water bottles, and/or preferred electrolyte drinks, snacks. What do I do if I'm experiencing COVID-19 symptoms? We recommend that you stay in your housing/apartment/home and follow Harvard’s guidance, notify the Crimson Clear Team, and follow quarantine guidelines according to your vaccination status. If you are outside of Harvard’s Color testing system, please visit https://www.mass.gov/info-details/find-a-covid-19-test or access an at-home rapid antigen test or PCR test and notify the Crimson Clear Team if you have a positive result on an outside-Harvard Color test. If you are on the Harvard health plan you can also get 8 monthly antigen test kits for free from your insurance. Visit Express Scripts for more information. What do I do if I'm experiencing COVID-19 symptoms and am scheduled for an appointment at HUHS? Prior to your appointment at HUHS, please review the list of symptoms below. If you have any of these symptoms, or have tested positive for COVID within 10 days of your appointment, please call your provider's office before coming to HUHS. All routine healthcare appointments can be rescheduled to at least 11 days after a positive COVID test. Cough Chest pain Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing Fever greater than 100.4 degree F or feeling feverish / having chills New fatigue Muscle or body aches Abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea New headache Loss of taste or smell Sore throat New congestion Main Number for HUHS - (617) 495-5711 Counseling and Mental Health Services (CAMHS) - (617) 495-2042 Behavioral Health - (617) 495-2323 Law School - (617) 495-4414 Medical Area - (617) 432-1370 Exposure & Quarantine I'm concerned about getting COVID. How often can I test through Color? If you develop symptoms or have come in close contact with someone positive for COVID-19, please notify the Crimson Clear Team by submitting a health attestation through Crimson Clear and follow quarantine guidelines outlined below according to your vaccination status. Am I at high risk for COVID-19? The CDC has provided some additional guidance for individuals who may be considered high risk; please see the CDC guidance. If you are immunocompromised or at a high risk for complications, please contact your healthcare provider as soon as possible for close monitoring, and do not wait for symptoms to worsen. If you are hospitalized or need to discuss medical treatment options beyond the standard Tylenol and Motrin, please contact the HUHS COVID Response team to update them on your status. I’ve had the primary series of the COVID vaccine but have not had a booster. Will I have to quarantine if I am exposed? If you received the second dose of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine over 5 months ago and are not boosted, or if you completed the primary series of Johnson & Johnson over 2 months ago and are not boosted, you would be required to quarantine if you have been exposed to COVID-19. Eligible individuals who have not received their booster shot must now quarantine for five (5) days when they are exposed. If you are unvaccinated and learn you have had a possible or confirmed exposure to someone who is positive for COVID, it’s incredibly important to minimize your movement and exposure to others. Please notify the Crimson Clear Team and they can discuss your quarantine requirements and ability to self-quarantine. My roommate/housemate just tested positive for COVID. What should I do? Be sure both you and your infected roommate/housemate wear well-fitting masks. Monitor your symptoms and drop off a Color test. Report this exposure through Crimson Clear. Your quarantine instructions will depend on your vaccination status. If you have been boosted or you completed the primary series of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines within the last 5 months or completed the primary series of Johnson & Johnson vaccine within the last 2 months, you should do the following: If symptom free: Wear a mask around others for 10 days, especially around eating/drinking. Test with a PCR test on Day 1 and the morning of Day 5 of potential exposure. If you develop symptoms of any type, get a PCR test and stay home and quarantine, testing on Day 1 of symptom onset and Day 5. If the PCR test is negative on Day 5, AND symptoms have resolved (including fever free for 24 hours) you can be released from quarantine. If you have not been boosted and you have completed the primary series of Pfizer or Moderna vaccine over 5 months ago, or if you haven’t been boosted and completed the primary series of Johnson & Johnson over 2 months ago, or are unvaccinated: Whether you have no symptoms or mild/severe symptoms, stay home and quarantine for 5 days. Test with a PCR test on Day 1 and the morning of Day 5. If the PCR test is negative on Day 5, AND symptoms have resolved (including fever free for 24 hours) you can be released from quarantine. After that continue to wear a mask around others for 5 additional days past Day 5 (i.e., Days 6-10). When I am in quarantine, could I visit with a friend/visitor if they also are quarantining? If you live on-campus and you’re required to quarantine, you’ll need to stay in your room/apartment for the duration of your quarantine to minimize your movement and exposure to others. You are permitted to leave only to use the restroom, to continue with your prescribed testing cadence, for urgent medical matters/appointments, or to evacuate for a life-threatening emergency. You should not socialize with visitors or invite them to your residence hall/into your housing during the quarantine period. Positive Test Result & Isolation What is the difference between isolation and quarantine? Isolation is used for people with confirmed positive cases of COVID-19 while quarantine is for exposed close contacts of confirmed cases of COVID-19. What do I do if I use an at-home antigen test and get a positive result? While an individual is highly encouraged to get a confirmatory PCR within 48 hours of their at-home antigen test, an at-home antigen test is considered an acceptable confirmation of a positive test result. If you receive a positive test result on an external antigen test, please report the result through Crimson Clear. You will be expected to follow isolation guidance and will hear from a member of the contact tracing team if your positive test result is within 10 days of reporting. Proof of a positive test result is not needed. For additional details of antigen and PCR tests please see Next Steps After Testing Positive on an Antigen or PCR Test. I tested positive for COVID but have not heard from a HUHS Contact Tracer yet. Do I need to isolate-in-place? Yes, please isolate-in-place until you hear from a HUHS Contact Tracer because it’s incredibly important to minimize your movement and exposure to others. HUHS will contact you via your Harvard email about what it means to be positive and explain next steps. Contact Tracers rely on email for most communication, so please check your Harvard email for instructions about next steps. I tested positive for COVID and I am concerned. When should I call HUHS for an appointment? If you are having difficulty breathing that is more than a mild cough and/or congestion in your nose. If you are having chest pain or tightness in your chest when you breathe. If, despite taking fever reducers as directed, your fever returns for more than 2 days or remains above 102°F (or 38.8°C). If you have prolonged vomiting or diarrhea and feel faint or dizzy. If you are immunocompromised or at a high risk for complications, please contact your healthcare provider as soon as possible for close monitoring, and do not wait for symptoms to worsen. If you are hospitalized or need to discuss medical treatment options beyond the standard Tylenol and Motrin, please contact the HUHS COVID Response team to update them on your status. I tested positive but don’t have any symptoms. Do I still need to isolate in place? If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you must isolate in place until you are contacted by our HUHS Contact Tracing Team with instructions. If you have tested positive outside of the University’s testing program, please use Crimson Clear to report your positive test result and wait for our Crimson Clear Team to contact you via email or phone. Per the University’s updated guideline from the CDC and Massachusetts Department of Public Health, infected individuals who have no symptoms or mild symptoms that are resolving with no fever may end strict isolation after 5 days. After your isolation period, you must always mask whenever you leave your home or are around others for 10 days from positivity date. This means that you should not dine with others unmasked and not attend any mask-free activities for at least 10 days. If I have only mild symptoms, I can leave isolation after 5 days if they've resolved. What are considered mild symptoms? Mild symptoms are similar to that of a cold. If after 5 days you continue to have a fever or severe respiratory symptoms, continue to stay home until your fever resolves and your symptoms begin to improve. If you develop any symptoms after 5 days, report these through Crimson Clear. I’ve tested positive for COVID and have a fever and a cough. What can I do to take care of myself while in isolation? Drink plenty of fluids, like water and sports drinks, to prevent dehydration. Take fever reducers, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen, as directed. You can alternate if fever returns. Take cough medicine after taking fluids. Liquid cough syrup may help coat your throat and relieve some of the soreness from coughing. If you already use an inhaler for asthma, it is okay to use it as you normally would. How high is too high for my fever? Who should I call if I have any concerns about my symptoms? If despite taking fever reducers as directed, your fever returns for more than 2 days or remains above 102°F (or 38.8°C) please call HUHS at (617) 495-5711 for an appointment (or your care provider). Will someone from my School still reach out to me during my isolation for academic support? Yes. For students: a School representative will contact you regarding academic support, the specifics for supporting your quarantine period, and to address any other needed supports. How will HUHS support me during my isolation-in-place? Although you’ll be isolating in place, HUHS is here for you. Please see below on how to reach us. If you need to access via TTY, dial (800) 439-0183. If you are a student living in a School-operated residence hall or housing, your Resident Dean/Housing Manager can assist you with any dining services or questions about supplies. Medical issues - If you have any concerning symptoms such as elevated fever, shortness of breath, chest pain, difficulty breathing, feeling faint or dizzy, or vomiting, please call (617) 495-5711 to reach our Urgent Care Department or 24/7 Nurse Advice Line. They will provide further instructions for you to either present in-person or to go the nearest local hospital. Mental Health Issues - the CAMHS Cares Line is available 24/7 for all students who need emotional support by calling (617) 495-2042. This line should not be used for questions related to COVID symptoms or to make medical appointments. How will I be notified when my isolation has ended and how long should I be masking afterward? You will be notified by the HUHS Contact Tracing Team when your isolation period has ended. Please check your email inbox for a message. Please continue to wear a mask for 10 days (5 days past isolation period) while you are around others and continue to follow all Keep Harvard Healthy guidelines. If I am positive for COVID-19 and start to feel more severe symptoms, who should I call? If you start to experience more severe COVID symptoms, you should call the Urgent Care Nurse Line at (617) 495-5711. This line is open 24 hours a day/7 days per week and they will direct you to come to Urgent Care in person or go to the Emergency Room for evaluation. More severe symptoms may include: Difficulty breathing (more than a mild cough or nasal congestion) Chest pain or tightness Fever above 102°F (or 38.8°C) after 2 days despite continuously taking fever reducing medications Prolonged diarrhea, vomiting, or feeling dizzy/faint If you are experiencing any mental health concerns while in isolation, the CAMHS Cares Line is available 24/7 by calling (617) 495-2042. This line is for all students needing emotional support and should not be used for questions related to COVID symptoms or to make medical appointments. For these COVID-related issues, please utilize the Urgent Care Nurse Line. If you need to access via TTY, dial (800) 439-0183. If you are immunocompromised or at a high risk for complications, please contact your healthcare provider as soon as possible for close monitoring, and do not wait for symptoms to worsen. If you are hospitalized or need to discuss medical treatment options beyond the standard Tylenol and Motrin, please contact the HUHS COVID Response team to update them on your status. Can I take my regular medications if I have COVID-19? Yes, it is okay to take your regular medication, especially medication you may already use for asthma. What kind of mask is recommended if I test positive for COVID? Masks are critical in reducing the spread of COVID-19. We encourage the use of high-quality disposable masks, worn in a way that minimizes air gaps around the edges. A surgical-style mask or a cup-style protective mask such as a KN-95, layered under a form-fitting fabric mask, can ensure good filtration as well as an effective seal. ASTM or FDA-accepted masks offer greater assurance of filtration quality. If my roommates/housemates and I all have COVID, is it okay for us to eat together and not wear masks in our room/house? We highly encourage you to continue following all recommended guidance on isolating due to multiple COVID-19 variants that are circulating throughout the community. When I am quarantined or isolated, could I visit with a friend, even if they also have COVID? If you live on-campus and you’re required to isolate in your room/apartment, you’ll need to stay in your room/apartment for the duration of your isolation to minimize your movement and exposure to others. You are permitted to leave only to use the restroom, for urgent medical matters/appointments, or to evacuate for a life-threatening emergency. You should not socialize with visitors or invite them to your residence hall/into your housing during the isolation period. Do I need to test negative to leave isolation? At this time, the general public does not require a negative test to leave isolation. Please refer to CDC guidance if you are a healthcare provider. Harvard’s health care and child care workers have additional return to work testing. View the Return to Work Requirement. Does a negative test during isolation (i.e., before Day 5) get you out of isolation? No, you are required to isolate for at least 5 days, or until communicated by a HUHS Contact Tracer. After testing positive for COVID, you would resume your testing cadence after 90 days. Having an additional negative test prior to Day 5 of isolation does not enable you to end isolation early. After Isolation/Recovery Period I have just finished my 5-day isolation period. When will I know that I’m safe to be around others after having tested positive? Everyone, regardless of vaccination status, should stay home and isolate for 5 days. If you have no symptoms or your symptoms resolve after 5 days, you can leave your home once cleared by a HUHS Contact Tracer. After your isolation period, you must always mask whenever you leave your home or are around others for 10 days from positivity date. This means that you should not dine with others unmasked and not attend any mask-free activities for at least 10 days. If after 5 days of isolation, you continue to have a fever or severe respiratory symptoms, continue to isolate until your fever resolves and your symptoms improve. This means you may need to isolate for more than 5 days. COVID-19 Information COVID-19 Vaccine Information COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement FAQs Accessing HUHS During COVID-19 Coronavirus, COVID-19 Information Viral Testing Testing, Exposure, Isolation, & Quarantine COVID-19 Documents Contact Emergency 911 Urgent Care (617) 495-5711 Information (617) 495-5711 TTY Information 7 Days a Week; 8:00AM-6:00PM: (800) 439-0183 TTY Reference Guide Disclaimer: The information provided on our website is not intended to diagnose or treat any health problem or disease. It is meant to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between an individual and their clinician. Quick Links Locations & Hours of Operation Access the Patient Portal Immunization Compliance Information New Student Information HUHS Announcements Telemedicine at HUHS HARVie – Harvard Information for Employees Locations Harvard Square Clinic Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 75 Mt. Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 495-5711 Law School Clinic Pound Hall 1563 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 495-4414 Medical Area Clinic Vanderbilt Hall 275 Longwood Avenue Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-1370 CSS Styles by HWP 6fb592c3f223c4af23a1d3378583bd88 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement