Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Flexible Work Arrangements Flexible Work Arrangements Per Columbia policy, managers must review all requests for schedules that differ from normal business hours (usually 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.) and assess department work needs and resources before approving a Flexible Work Arrangement (FWA), including telecommutes. Expand all Collapse all FWA Process FWA Types FWAs include: Flextime Nine, Ten and Eleven-Month Employment Appointments Phased Retirement Telecommuting For more details on FWA types and to see how employee should make proposals, visit the FWA section of Manage Work Time. FWA Policies and Proposal Form In order to request a FWA, employees must complete an Employee FWA Proposal form and submit it to their manager for consideration. Each employee-initiated FWA proposal should be evaluated on its own merits. FWA Policy Telecommuting Policy Employee FWA Proposal form How to Review FWA Proposals Employees request FWAs for diverse and compelling personal reasons. Managerial focus must be on how a schedule change affects the organization, and on the potential value added by working differently. Review FWA request. Consult with department HR representative, HR Client Manager and/or the Office of Work/Life to prepare for meeting with the employee. Meet with the employee to discuss. Evaluate the FWA request. If considering denying, consult with department; HR representative, HR Client Manager and/or the Office of Work/Life. Accept or deny the request. Inform the employee as soon as possible. If request is denied, schedule a meeting with employee to explain the Business-based Decision. If request is accepted, schedule a meeting with employee to develop an implementation plan and discuss timekeeping. Review and confirm expectations and deliverables. Communicate the change to the department and any relevant business partners. Monitor the employee’s progress and remain supportive. Business-based Decisions Meeting business and operational goals under a proposed FWA arrangement is primary criteria for approving a FWA request. Managers use the FWA request, conversations with the employee and consultations with department HR representatives, HR Client Managers and/or the Office of Work/Life to make sound, value-based, organizational decisions. Objective criteria is considered to determine the viability of a specific arrangement: Business and department needs Job requirements The employee’s skills and performance history Manager-initiated FWA When business needs and operational goals require a staffing review, FWAs initiated by managers can be considered. Managers are required to consult with their HR client manager when considering implementing FWA as part of business planning. Manager-initiated FWA should not be used as a method for changing an employee's hours or salary. HR Manager Toolkit Workplace Management Time & Attendance Vacation Balances & Org Charts Personal Data Promotions, Transfers & Retirement Layoffs & Terminations Managing Salary & Pay Salary Changes & Adjustments Compensation & Salary Accounting Flexible Work Arrangements Performance Management Workplace Conduct Management Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close