Go to the U of M home page One Stop MyU: For Students, Faculty, and Staff Search Office of Human Resources Home Find a Job New Employees Benefits Wellbeing Working at the U Supervising Contacts COVID-19 Workplace Guidance Questions About Employment Using the Job Application System The Benefits of Working at the U A Commitment to Diversity Veteran Employment Student Jobs Graduate Assistant Employment Relocation Assistance Program WE ARE HIRING! External Candidates Students U of M Employees JOIN OUR COMMUNITY Competitive Benefits Commitment to Diversity AWARDS AND RECOGNITION We are proud to be recognized by the Star Tribune as a Top Workplace for 2021, as well as by Forbes as one of America’s Best Employers (2015, 2018, 2019), Best Employer for Diversity (2019, 2020), Best Employer for New Grads (2018, 2019), and Best Employer by State (2019). In addition, the U of M received the Seven Seals Award in 2019 from the Minnesota Chapter of the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve. In 2021 the University was ranked 14th for corporate diversity among other large employers in Minnesota by the Minneapolis-St. Paul Business Journal, as determined by percentage of total employees who are people of color. WHAT'S YOUR PURPOSE? Working at the University, you’ll be a vital part of our mission of education, research, and community outreach. Watch this video to learn about the life-changing contributions we make to Minnesota and the world. Video of Today, you’ll meet the University of Minnesota CONNECT WITH US UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA TITLE IX STATEMENT As required by Title IX, the University does not discriminate on the basis of sex in any of its education programs or activities, including in admissions and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX can be directed to the University’s Title IX Coordinators or to the U.S. Department of Education, Office of Civil Rights. Please see the University of Minnesota’s Title IX Statement and the University’s policy for information about: (1) how to contact the Title IX Coordinators on the University’s campuses; (2) how to report or file a formal complaint of sexual harassment, gender-based harassment, sexual assault, stalking or relationship violence; and (3) the University’s procedures for responding to reports and formal complaints. Notices of Intent to Hire H-1B/E-3 Employees For Students, Faculty, and Staff One Stop MyU © 2022 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement Report Web Disability-Related Issue Current as of May 31, 2022