Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Retirement & Financial Planning Support Staff - Voluntary Retirement Savings Programs (VRSP) Support Staff - Voluntary Retirement Savings Programs (VRSP) The VRSP is a defined contribution 403(b) plan that lets you contribute from 1% to 80% of your eligible pay on a pre-tax and/or Roth basis, in half percentages, through convenient payroll contributions. Eligibility begins on date of hire. You are always 100% entitled to the value of your own contributions. The IRS sets a maximum contribution limit each year, which applies to combined contributions, pre-tax and Roth: The 2022 maximum contribution is $20,500 (plus $6,500 if you are age 50 and over, for a total of $27,000). The Social Security wage base will increase for 2022 from $142,800 to $147,000. You have a wide range of funds to choose from for investing your savings, available through TIAA and/or Vanguard. Remember: Save a dollar amount closer to your desired annual retirement savings goal. VRSP elections can be made in half percentages. Make Sure You Are Signed Up. Not sure if you are participating in the VRSP today? The simplest way to check is to look at your payroll statement. Expand all Collapse all Notices For Local 241, TWU Contributions: The Columbia University Retirement Plan—Local 241, Transport Workers Union of America is a Defined Benefit Plan. The University makes contributions to the Plan for you as soon as you become eligible. If you do not select your investment funds for the VRSP, your contributions will be invested in the appropriate Qualified Default Investment Alternative (QDIA) with TIAA and Vanguard. You may change your investment fund options at any time. If you do not select an investment carrier, your funds will be invested with Vanguard. For New Hires It is your responsibility to ensure that your annual contributions do not exceed the IRS limit for the calendar year. If you have already contributed to another qualified pre-tax retirement plan this year, please be sure to review those contributions so you can elect the appropriate per-paycheck percentage. Expand all Collapse all Your Contributions Pre-tax Contributions Contributions deducted from your pay before federal income taxes (and, in most areas, state and local income taxes) are applied. Your pre-tax contributions and their investment earnings will not be subject to taxes as long as they remain in your VRSP account. Roth Contributions After-tax contributions, which means you pay taxes on Roth contributions along with the rest of your current pay. Because you pay taxes on your Roth contributions when they go into the VRSP, you’ll pay no taxes on Roth contributions when they are paid out to you from the Plan, subject to certain rules. Catch-up Contributions If you are age 50 or older, you may contribute an additional amount—up to $6,500—on a pre-tax and/or Roth basis to your VRSP. You become eligible for catch-up contributions on January 1 of the year you turn 50. Log in to the CUBES to make this election. Retirement Savings & Financial Planning Support Staff Eligibility University Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Savings Program Resources & Legal Documents News Events FAQs Related Resources Support Staff Retirement Brochure TWU 241 Lamont Maintenance Contract 1199 SEIU UHC Workers East SSA Area Contract Local 2110 Contract Local 100 Faculty House Contract VRSP Hardship Withdrawl Retirement Forms TIAA - Direct Transfer to Vanguard TIAA - Cash Withdrawal Form TIAA - Moving Funds TIAA - Request For Hardship Withdrawal TIAA - Rollover To a Non-Columbia Plan TIAA - Special Tax Notice for Plan Payouts Vanguard - VRSP Rollover Vanguard Termination Request Form Vanguard Termination Form - VRSP Vanguard - Asset Transfer Form Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close