Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Welcome Orientation & New Hire Info New Hire Checklist New Hire Checklist Welcome and congratulations on your new role! To help guide you through your first few weeks, please review the following information to help you make a successful transition. Some of these tasks can be completed prior to your start date. If you have any questions, please reach out to your hiring manager and/or your HR Manager for assistance. Expand all Collapse all Checklist Before You Arrive New Hire Paperwork Requirements to complete your hiring process are: Employment Eligibility: On or before your first day of work, you need to complete Section 1 of the I-9 Form. Within three business days of your start date, visit an I-9 Service Center to complete Form I-9, Section 2. Remember to bring the appropriate original documents with you, as listed in Section 1 of the I-9 online. Taxation: Fill out your W-4 form along with your IT2104 form or IT2104.1 form and give them to your hiring manager. Your Columbia Email (UNI) Your Columbia email is needed to log into security-protected systems at the University, including for benefits enrollment. Work with your hiring manager to obtain and activate your UNI, which is your Columbia computing account. Register and Attend New Hire Orientation Register for an orientation session on either the Morningside or Medical Center Campus as appropriate per your role and location. University ID Card Your University ID card will provide you access into buildings on campus as well as to special discounts and resources only accessible to members of the Columbia community. Access the ID Center to find out more about how to obtain an ID Card. Campus Information Get to know more about the Columbia campuses and take a tour once you arrive. Check out this 3D map of Morningside Heights and get more neighborhood information. Once You Arrived Benefits Enrollment You have 31 days to enroll in your plan if you are benefits eligible. Please refer to the Benefits section for detailed information. Officers may also view the New Hire Benefits Orientation video. Once you have activated your Columbia email (UNI), you can log in to CUBES (Columbia University Benefits Enrollment System) with your UNI and password and make your benefits elections. You may also call the HR Benefits Service Center at 212-851-7000 from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, if you have any questions about electing your benefits. Review MyColumbia MyColumbia is a portal that enables faculty and staff to access the information and password-protected resources quickly and easily in a central location. MyColumbia includes your personal information, tax documents and online direct deposit registration. After you log in with your UNI and password, please click the links along the top navigation to go to the areas you need. You can sign up to directly deposit your pay into your savings account, checking account or both, by logging into the myColumbia portal with your UNI and password. Please see the direct deposit instructions to learn more. Meet with Your New Manager Ensure that you set up a meeting with your primary manager to orient you fully into the new job, department/center culture and performance expectations during your first few months in the new role. Identify any required training with your manager. Compliance Training Anti-harassment, Discrimination and Title IX Training – Compliance training on sexual harrassment and discrimination Research Compliance & Training Courses – Searched via the Training Finder System For anyone working with minors, Protection of Minors training is required Professional Development See Learning & Development for online training to learn software, technology and business skills. Check out all in-person courses designed to help promote individual development as well as work and team productivity. Perks & Discounts Don’t forget to check out the many discounts & perks you will have access to as a Columbia employee. Additional resources are also available to you through the Office of Work/Life. Columbia faculty and staff are also eligible for discounted pricing on the University's fitness facilities. Welcome to Columbia University Orientation & New Hire Info New Hire Orientation online Checklist I-9 and E-Verify Employment Overview Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close