Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Background Checks Background Checks Columbia uses the vendor HireRight to conduct background checks, which are governed by Columbia University Policy. Expand all Collapse all Conducting Background Checks Background Check Process Columbia University is committed to providing a safe and secure environment for our community, including students, visitors and employees, as well as safeguarding the assets and resources of the University. In support of this effort, any applicant for a University position who receives a conditional offer of employment, will undergo a background check. Once an employee has accepted the offer in HireRight, you can initiate the background check process. The applicant will receive an email from HireRight with a secure link. The estimated turnaround for a background check completion averages ten business days. Some checks may take longer depending on prompt collection of information and the number of resources needed to be contacted. Columbia University Human Resources serves as the office of record for the background check results and maintains strict confidentiality. Departments do not receive any details of the background check, only a notification of whether the results do or do not meet University policy. Estimates for Completion As of March 2022: Domestic background checks are taking 2 weeks on average*. International background checks are taking 1 month. *Assumes no criminal activity. Effective immediately, please expect clearance notification to come directly from HireRight. If more than one background check package was ordered for a candidate, a HireRight notification per package is needed before moving forward to next steps in the hiring process. Please contact the Background Check team at [email protected] with any questions. Policy & Guidelines Policy Background Checks are governed by the Columbia University Background Check Policy. If you have any questions regarding the process after reading the policy, please contact [email protected] Guidelines Before submitting a request for a background check, we encourage you to review the University’s Background Check Policy Guidelines. This document describes the background check process, roles and responsibilities, the specific background check requirements for each role, the adverse action process, and how to handle transfers, rehires and promotions. Getting Access to the HireRight System Columbia uses the vendor HireRight to conduct background checks. HireRight login Note: your username and password expire every ninety days. If your password has expired, Please contact the Background Check team at [email protected] or call HireRight at 866-915-6030. Request or Remove Access to HireRight Please complete the HireRight Access form. Knowledge Center Step-by-Step Background Check Application Process How to Initiate a Background Check in TalentLink How to Initiate a Background Check on the HireRight Platform How to Initiate a Drug Screening Request How to Initiate an A La Carte Background Check How to Check on the Status of a Background Check Uploading Documentation Expand all Collapse all FAQs How will the candidate be contacted by HireRight? Your candidate will receive an email asking their permission to do the background check. The email will include a hyperlink the candidate needs to click to begin the process. The hyperlink expires in five days, after which you will need to initiate another background check if the candidate has not responded. Therefore, please let your candidate know that they can expect a time-sensitive email from HireRight and that they have five days to respond. Why is my domestic background check taking longer than expected? A number of factors can influence how long it takes for a background check to clear. For example, if the candidate has lived in multiple states, each of those states needs to be contacted and clearance needs to be received from multiple districts. Verifications for the highest degree earned and employment verifications may experience delays due to nonresponsive institutions/contacts. In these cases, candidates are encouraged to assist with contact information, redacted pay stubs and/or tax forms or IRS transcripts. What documents can the candidate provide for verification? Employment can be verified through a number of ways: 1. The candidate can provide employer contact information including the name of the HR Representative/Manager, title, email address and phone number. 2. The candidate can provide pay stubs and/or tax documents (e.g., W2, 1099) covering months and/or years of employment. Please ensure the candidate redacts any monetary amounts on documents provided, as we are solely verifying employment information. 3. Additionally, the candidate can request tax transcripts directly from the IRS. The candidate can go to their local IRS office. The IRS will print for free a Wage and Transcript Form for the years request while you wait, or The candidate can access the IRS website at: http://www.irs.gov/Individuals/Get-Transcript 4. Education verification can be verified with a copy of the candidate’s highest completed degree or a transcript. Do we need to background check transfer employees? Current employees whose position changes as a result of a transfer, promotion, or reclassification may be required to undergo a background check in cases where one was not conducted when that employee was initially hired, or if a new background check is needed because of the nature of the position. For Union employees, please review the respective Collective Bargaining Agreement. Do we need to background check former employees? Rehires with a break in service of more than six consecutive months will be required to undergo a background check. HR Manager Toolkit Recruiting & Hiring TalentLink Staff Search Planning Staff Job Posting Conducting a Staff Search Position Management Hiring Process Background Checks I-9 Form Required Hiring Documents Onboarding Temporary Staffing Academic Appointments Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close