Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Information for Faculty and Staff COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Information for Faculty and Staff Guidance Central COVID-19 resource including returning to campus information Vaccination How and where to get vaccinated in New York New Work Environment Explore the resources for embracing our new work environment. Research Activities FAQs on conducting research, research operations, and sponsored projects Campus Visitors Visitor guidelines for Spring 2022 Travel Columbia travel guidelines for summer 2022 Expand all Collapse all Key Resources How to Work Remotely Find technical resources and assistance in setting up remote working from your home: Remote Working Toolkit 10 Tips to Enhance Well-Being When Working Remotely 3 common myths about working from home, busted Practical tips for managing your financial well-being HR Managers: Go to Remote Working Guidance Updated:12/29/2020, 1:00 p.m. Leave of Absence Learn about the types of Leaves of Absence if you cannot work — and the required approval processes. Take a Leave of Absence HR Managers: Go to Managing Leaves of Absence. Updated:12/29/2020, 1:00 p.m. Sign up for direct deposit If you have not already, sign up for direct deposit of your paycheck via My.Columbia. Updated:12/29/2020, 1:00 p.m. Columbia Together Read faculty and staff original stories of resilience See images of working during the pandemic Give a shout-out to essential workers Frequently Asked Questions Campus Reopening Review a consolidated list of the most frequently asked questions related to campus reopening. Go to FAQs Benefits All Benefits FAQs, including those related to COVID-19 can be found on the Frequently Asked Questions - Benefits page. Telework Resources can be found on the Embracing Our New Work Environment website. Time Off/Flex-Time What options do I have to take a leave of absence? Learn about the types of Leaves of Absence if you cannot work — and the required approval processes. Learn more. HR Managers: Go the Toolkit for help with managing leaves of absence. (last updated: 12/29/2020) I am unable to report to work due to school closure, or another family situation related to COVID-19. How will I be paid? Columbia offers full-time and regular part-time employees a one-time allotment of up to 10 paid work days of COVID-Absence in these situations, in addition to any other available leave benefits under our existing University policies (including up to 56 hours under the New York Safe and Sick Leave Policy). Employees should submit requests for COVID-Absence to their managers. Learn more about other University leave policies. (last updated: 12/29/2020) I would like to alter my work schedule to travel during off-peak hours. What should I do? At the discretion of your School/Department leadership and your supervisor, you may request a flex-time schedule. For example, staggering the start and end time of your day to assist our city officials in reducing the amount of traffic at peak times on public transportation. All time reporting policies and processes remain in place, even if working an alternate work schedule. All University staff who can telecommute should speak to their manager to discuss options to telecommute. (last updated: 3/31/2020) What resources are available to help me adjust to working remotely? Technical assistance and professional resources to set up remote working Personal support and well-being resources (last updated: 3/31/2020) Child Care Information regarding caregiving resources can be found on the Work/Life website. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close