Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Events Strategies for Healthy Living with Diabetes (EAP Webinar) Events Past Event Strategies for Healthy Living with Diabetes (EAP Webinar) Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo August 17, 2021 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Webinar You may know diabetes is a common yet potentially serious condition suffered by more than 10% of the U.S. population, but did you know an estimated 7.3 million people in the U.S. have diabetes but are undiagnosed? This webinar will help you learn to identify possible complications of the disease—such as vision problems and heart disease—and offers steps you and/or your loved ones can take to live your best life. Diabetes is manageable. It's important to understand how it affects the body so you can live a healthy and happy life. This webinar is audio only; video will be off for participants. Register Now Following this webinar, participants will be better able to understand: the different types of diabetes and tests used to diagnose, how diabetes affects blood sugar (glucose), and strategies to help manage life with diabetes, including medications, eating right, physical activity and stress management. Go to our Well-being website to learn about the EAP and other resources. And check out Humana’s Columbia-specific website for more wellness guides. If prompted, log in (Username: Columbia; Password: eap). Upcoming Events Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close