Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Resources for Caregivers Resources for Caregivers If caring for family members and loved ones is part of your daily routine, you know the importance of having access to reliable, qualified and cost-effective resources. Your benefits can help with child, adult and elder care. Expand all Collapse all Resources Experts on Call Employees who are eligible for Columbia medical coverage have 24/7 access to a free and confidential Employee Assistance Program (EAP), provided through Humana. Through the EAP, you can: Receive short-term counseling on managing adult/elder care, coping with stress, avoiding burnout and more. Talk with a specialist who will research care options based on your situation and provide you with feedback within three business days. Obtain customized information and referrals to elder and adult care services in your or your loved one’s community. Explore elder care options such as assisted living facilities and in-home care. Learn about dementia, health care directives and caring from a distance. To reach an EAP specialist, call 1-888-673-1153 (TTY: 711). You can also find helpful information, guidance and resources on the Columbia-specific Humana website. If prompted, log in (Username: Columbia; Password: eap). Hover mouse over “What’s on your mind” tab for a list of topics, such as Emergencies, Parenting and Tools. Talk About It Many of us may spend more years caring for elderly parents than raising children. Involve your parents in planning for their future care while they remain able to participate in the discussion. Health Advocate Employees who are eligible for Columbia life insurance have access to Health Advocate, a resource to help you, your spouse, dependent children, parents and parents-in-law: Find the right doctors, hospitals and other health care providers Coordinate care and schedule follow-up visits, facilitate second opinions, transfer X-rays and medical records Work with insurance companies to clarify benefits and negotiate billing Locate elder care services that fall outside of traditional healthcare coverage, including assisted living and adult day care For more information, go to the Columbia Health Advocate page or phone them directly at 866-799-2725. Back-Up Plans Available Your sitter’s planning a vacation. An out-of-state family member falls ill. Your home health worker switches jobs. When the unexpected occurs and you need immediate access to child- or adult-caregiver resources, use Columbia’s Back-Up Care Advantage Program, provided by Bright Horizons. As an employee of Columbia, you have access to a variety of resources and support, including: Babysitters, nannies and housekeepers Elder care Center-based child care You can access this service by calling 1-877-BH-CARES (242-2737) or on the Bright Horizons Back-Up Care webpage. Registration in advance is recommended (Username: columbia; Password: backupcare [case sensitive]). Requests for care can be made 30 days to 24 hours in advance (availability of caregivers is not guaranteed). Each fiscal year, Columbia provides you with access to 150 hours of back-up care for children and adults and covers most of the cost. For more information, including copays for services, visit Columbia's Office of Work/Life’s Back-Up Care page. Columbia's Office of Work/Life Employees may receive information and services from Columbia’s Office of Work/Life, including the School and Child Care Search, the pre-K and Kindergarten Newsletter and the Back-Up Care program. Visit the Work/Life website for more details, programs and events. Leave of Absence In your role as caregiver you may be eligible for a paid or unpaid leave of absence from work. For assistance, contact the CUHR Leave Management Office at [email protected] Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close