Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Health & Welfare Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Protect what matters. The Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D) insurance plan covers employees and their family in case of unintentional ("accidental") death or dismemberment. The Plan is insured and administered by New York Life Group Benefit Solutions (NYL GBS), and is available to all active benefits-eligible Officers, Non-Union Support Staff (NUSS), Local 2110, SSA, and Local 100 members regularly working a minimum of 20 hours per week. AD&D coverage is paid entirely by the employee, for coverage amounts in units of $10,000. Please note that New York Life Insurance Company recently acquired Cigna Group Insurance (CGI). As part of this transition, Cigna has changed its name to New York Life Group Benefit Solutions. The transition does not impact your current coverage or access. Maximum benefit coverage: $1,000,000 for Employees $250,000 for Spouses $10,000 for Children Monthly costs are determined in increments of $1,000 of insurance. Rates are calculated based on $.015 per $1,000 of coverage for employee coverage and $.025 per $1,000 of coverage for family coverage. See the AD&D Coverage Overview sheet in Resources, below. To qualify for a dismemberment payout, you must lose a body part (a limb or finger) or the use of a body part or the ability to see, hear or speak. The Plan pays a set benefit amount—in cash—based on the type of injury. The Plan also pays additional benefits to the person or persons who receive the AD&D benefit, if the insured dies or suffers a covered dismemberment as a result of a covered accident while wearing a seatbelt, being protected by an airbag, if he/she lapses into a coma and in instances of exposure to the elements and/or disappearance (body not found). Resources: New York Life GBS - Voluntary Accidental Death & Dismemberment - Coverage Overview (pdf) New York Life GBS - Voluntary Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance Certificate (pdf) Health & Welfare Benefits Officers NUSS Local 2110 SSA Unions Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close