Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Embracing Our New Work Environment Flexible/Hybrid Working 101 Flexible/Hybrid Working 101 For those schools/units exploring more flexible ways of working, this page will provide guidance on how to successfully manage a hybrid workforce. How Do We Define Hybrid and Flexible Work? Please refer to the definitions below to understand the difference between a hybrid onsite/remote operating model and Flexible Work Arrangements. Remote work is work that happens anywhere that is not onsite. Hybrid work is work that happens regularly both onsite and remotely. The optimal hybrid mix of onsite and remote work can be planned and formalized, or shift as needed based on the work to be done and where it’s done best. Flexible Work Arrangements (FWAs) are individualized flexible work plans. FWAs are approved by managers through a fair and equitable process. FWAs can be applied to hybrid, full-time onsite, and full-time remote work models. Columbia's FWA policy. It might also be helpful to think about onsite/remote work and FWAs as two levels within a determined operating model: Level 1—Operating Model Depending on the unit, this could be a traditional operating model with essentially everyone working 100% on campus, or a flexible operating model that combines mostly onsite, full-time remote, and hybrid work (a flexible combination of onsite and remote work). Determination of the operating model is the responsibility of the unit, taking into account the particular jobs or functions involved. Does not require an FWA. Determined in the unit, by the unit. Level 2—Flexible Work Arrangements The established policy/process that supports a place or time variation from the unit's determined operating model. An FWA would change the onsite/hybrid/full-time remote status at the individual level. Determined in the unit for an individual, but following the HR policy/process. For additional support, please visit: Manager Guidance Best in Flex Webinars & Trainings Home Flexible/Hybrid Working 101 Manager Guidance Best in Flex Webinars & Trainings Commuting to Campus Technology Support Return to Campus Protocols Related Resources Flexible Work Arrangements Policy Remote Work Supplies and Minor Equipment Policy Sustainable Columbia Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close