Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Benefits Health & Welfare Benefits Explore Your Benefits Columbia University offers a full range of benefits to help you and your eligible dependents stay healthy, build long-term financial security for retirement, and meet educational goals. Explore the Health and Welfare, Tax Savings, Tuition, Well-being and Voluntary Benefits options available. CUBES Making Changes to Benefits Vendor Contacts FAQs Glossary Virtual Visits Your Benefits Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Voluntary Benefits Well-being Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Retirees Discover Your Benefits Benefits News May 17, 2022 Submit PTS - The School at Columbia Applications, starting June 1, 2022 To ensure your Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS) benefit application is processed in timely manner, submit application(s) for the 2022-2023 school year to EBPA beginning June 1, 2022. Please do not send in advance. Tags Tuition News - OfficersPTS NewsBenefits May 17, 2022 Submit PTS - NYC Private Schools Applications, starting June 1, 2022 To ensure your Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS) benefit application is processed in timely manner, submit application(s) for the 2022-2023 school year to EBPA beginning June 1, 2022. Please do not send in advance. Tags Tuition News - OfficersPTS NewsBenefits February 23, 2022 Let your heart take the lead February is Heart Health Month Tags BenefitsHealth & WelfareWell-being Info More News Benefits Events Jul13Wed College Coach: Writing your Best College Essay Webinar 7:00 PM - 8:00 PM Aug9Tue College Coach: Preparing College Applications Webinar 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Sep1Thu Retirement Planning Workshop For Officers Ages 55+ Webinar 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM All Events MY CU Benefits Transcript MY CU Benefits Columbia University offers a comprehensive benefits package to support your every day needs and life events: health care, retirement savings,tuition, tax savings on commuting and child care, and more. With our upgraded CU Benefits Enrollment System, CUBES, we're making it easier for you to manage your benefits. Visit CUBES today and view the new, more modern design. Use CUBES anytime to report a Qualified Life Status Change such as marriage, the birth or adoption of a child, update Retirement Savings Plan elections, change Transit and Parking elections, print Tuition Program form, and update Life Insurance Beneficiaries. CUBES is also a place to learn about benefits programs and resources, access benefits summaries and vendor contacts, and see your current elections. CUBES is also a place to message the Columbia Benefits Service Center. And when BENEFITS OPEN ENROLLMENT comes this fall, use CUBES to access an enhanced cost estimator tool to help you choose a medical plan. Managing your benefits is getting easier with CUBES. Your benefits is getting easier with CUBES. Learning about your benefits helps you take advantage of them. Be on the lookout for Discover Your Benefits communications. Discover Your Benefits: Get tips on how Columbia benefits can help meet everyday needs like commuting and child care; help you and your family stay healthy; help pay for medical, dental, and vision services; help you save for the future; and much more. Learn more so you can make informed decisions. Do more by using CUBES. Get more from your Columbia Benefits. MY CU Benefits Disclaimer The Human Resources/Benefits website is intended only to provide information for the guidance of Columbia University Officers, staff and union employees. The writers of the content have exercised their best efforts to ensure accuracy of the information, but accuracy is not guaranteed. If there are any discrepancies between the information on the website, verbal representations and the Plan documents, the Plan documents will always govern. The information is subject to change from time to time, and the University reserves the right to change or terminate these Plans at any time. The information contained on the website is not intended to replace the plan documents, nor is the information in any way intended to imply a contract. Legal Notices Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close