Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Well-being Women's Health Women's Health Nothing is more important than your health and well-being. Women’s Health Programs, available through UnitedHealthcare (UHC), are open to all faculty, staff and covered dependents to help everyone achieve the best possible health. Expand all Collapse all Women's Health Resources Preventive Care Preventive care helps you stay healthy. Medical services that defend against health emergencies, illnesses and diseases—like annual check-ups, immunizations and screening tests—are considered preventive. If you are enrolled in a Columbia medical plan, in-network preventive services are covered at 100%, with no payment needed from you. The University’s medical plans are compliant with the ACA and federal guidelines pertaining to coverage for preventive services. UnitedHealthcare (UHC) follows the preventive immunization guidelines recommended by the CDC and the guidelines of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force A & B recommendations for determining what is considered preventive care. See U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Recommendations. Preventive Services Examples of Preventive Health Services for Women: Preventive Breast Ultrasounds, when billed by a physician with a preventive diagnosis Digital Breast Tomosynthesis (DBT), also known as 3D Mammography Cervical cancer screening Pre-eclampsia screening, included in a prenatal visit Osteoporosis screening for women age 65 and older Expand all Collapse all Maternal Health Resources Family Building Benefit The University offers a newly-enhanced, Family Building benefit for all covered members and eligible dependents. The benefit includes fertility services administered by United Healthcare (UHC). There is no requirement to meet a definition of infertility or infertility criteria required for covered members or eligible dependents to access this benefit. Prior to initiating fertility services, you or an enrolled dependent must call Fertility Solutions (866-774-4626) to enroll. Fertility Solutions is a program administered by UHC that assists with education, guidance and referrals. Experienced fertility nurses offer support and guidance throughout the fertility process. Therapeutic services under the Family Building benefit may include Assisted Reproductive Technologies (ART), including Reciprocal Fertility Services, and insemination procedures including artificial insemination and intrauterine insemination, when provided by or under the direction of a physician. Additionally, the benefit covers some associated donor medical expenses. Neonatal Resource Services If your baby is born preterm or with a serious health problem, Neonatal Resource Services can help with a dedicated team of nurse case managers, social workers and other services. Maternity Support Program The Maternity Support Program helps ensure you and your baby receive the best care, from pregnancy through the first months of the baby’s life. Video: The Importance of Nutrition During Pregnancy Video: Overview of Maternity Support Programs Well-being Emergency Travel Assistance Employee Assistance Program Ergonomics Program Health Advocate Mental Health Physical Fitness Preventive Care Sleep Resources Virtual Visits Wellness Coaching & Resources Women's Health Work/Life Programs Get Started Go to myuhc.com and log in with your Username and Password. Call 1-800-232-9357 to speak with a UHC advocate. Related Documents Maternity Support Fertility Solutions Neonatal Resources Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close