Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Learning & Development Consulting Services Consulting Services The Learning & Development (L&D) team offers customized learning solutions for schools and departments upon request. Individuals and teams can select from available Course Offerings or request a new custom designed program. Learning and organizational development solutions are available for both individuals and teams as well as for a school or department at large. Initiatives may include a single event, iterative sessions or a more comprehensive learning curriculum over a period of time. Solutions offer a blended learning or hybrid implementation to feature online learning, innovative team meetings, in-person workshops and guest speakers for presentations on various topics. Programs are designed using standard ADDIE or SAM instructional design methodologies, resulting in solutions tailored to Columbia University and aligned to the team’s strategic goals and performance planning initiatives. The Learning & Development team will use the instructional design methodology that is most useful for the proposed engagement or consulting service. Most projects and engagements use the SAM instructional design model. Sample topics include: Department and Team Retreats Strategic Planning Team Building Leadership Development Program Leading Change Workshop Expand all Collapse all Design & Program Options SAM Model SAM (Successive, Approximation, Model) is an acronym that represents an agile approach to instructional design. As a workshop, program or development solution is identified, it is quickly designed and refined as part of an iterative process. The SAM instructional design methodology offers a condensed delivery timeframe using three overlapping stages: Preparation: Conduct an expedited development needs analysis. Iterative Design: Design a workshop prototype and review with the client for further input and feedback, while proceeding to the Iterative Development phase. Iterative Development: Rotate through development, implementation and evaluation to launch successive versions over a brief period, leading to an initial product solution. Based on the pilot session or content review, the Team will further refine the solution for the next iteration. ADDIE Model ADDIE is an acronym that represents five linear stages in the instructional design model, which include: Analyze: Conduct a formal assessment of individual, team and/or organizational development needs. The Team will review current and desired behavior, existing gaps, timeline, design resources and logistics for project completion. Design: Design formal learning objectives, select assessment instruments, select content and activities, create lesson plans, identify subject matter experts and select media or technology (if applicable). Develop: Learning & Development team designers create possible storyboards or learning modules and test and revise the initial solution. Implement: Develop procedures and guides for facilitators and participants. Confirm learning outcomes, methods of delivery and test all planned outcomes and tools. Evaluate: Seek qualitative and quantitative feedback and consider short-term and long-term measures of success. Program Options Consulting services are personalized programs designed for you or your team. Development is not one size fits all, and consulting services engagements provide individual and team development that strengthens key competencies, develops leaders, empowers teams and help establish clear performance strategies. The Consulting Services Flyer has more information and a list of sample program offerings. Webform Request a Customized Program Name Uni (for faculty & staff) Email Phone Description Estimate Program Delivery Estimate Number of Participants Send Request Learning & Development Affiliate Registration Course Offerings Certificate Programs Consulting Services LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Team-Building Activities Contact Other Trainings & Sites LinkedIn Learning HR Training (ELM) Finance Training Security Awareness Training CU Libraries Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close