Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Learning & Development Affiliate Registration Affiliate Registration Fall 2022 workshop registration opens in September In the mean time, see our Summer Learning page for engagement ideas! Please review the Affiliate Registration & Cancellation Policy below, prior to registering for a workshop. Workshops are available to Columbia University affiliates, including: Barnard College, Jewish Theological Seminary, Manhattan School of Music, Teachers College, and other members of the University community. To Register: Affiliates may register for a course by creating an account in the Affiliate version of the Enterprise Learning Management system (ELM). Review the Create an Account in ELM job aid for detailed instructions on how to do this, paying special attention to the Security Key. Once your ELM account has been setup, please login to ELM. You may access the Register for a Course - Affiliates job aid for detailed instructions on how to register for one of our L&D workshops. Once your registration is confirmed in ELM, you will receive the virtual workshop URL and instructions on how to prepare for the session, the day or so prior to the session. Expand all Collapse all Affiliate Registration and Cancellation Policy Payment Payment: When registering for a course in ELM, you will be prompted to provide a credit card to process payment. Accepted cards include: Visa, Mastercard, American Express, and Discover. Refunds: Should you choose to cancel your registration, please note that it may take up to 3 months to process the reimbursement. Email [email protected] if you need further assistance. Cancellation and Pricing Course registrations should be canceled at least seven days prior to the scheduled workshop date to ensure the full cost is waived. If the cancellation is not received within seven days, the full cost of the course will be charged to the registrant. The cancellation period allows wait-listed participants an opportunity to attend. If you cancel a course at least seven days in advance, a refund will be processed for the cost of the course to be returned to your credit card. Reimbursements may take up to 3 months to process. Cancel a Course - Job Aid Waitlist In the event that a workshop is currently at capacity, you have the option to request a seat on the waitlist. You will be notified of this at your time of registration in ELM. As an affiliate, in the event that you request to be placed on the waitlist, you are required to provide payment via credit card. Your card will then be charged the full amount of the class. Should a seat not become available, or you choose to cancel your registration, you will then be issued a refund. Please note that reimbursements may take up to 3 months to process. Learning & Development Affiliate Registration Course Offerings Certificate Programs Consulting Services LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Team-Building Activities Contact Other Trainings & Sites LinkedIn Learning HR Training (ELM) Finance Training Security Awareness Training CU Libraries Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close