Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Personal Data Personal Data This section of the toolkit provides information on viewing and changing employee data (personal and job) and processing those transactions. Expand all Collapse all Personal Data Transactions Viewing Personal Data All of the faculty and staff information in the department(s) to which you have access will appear on the Job and Personal Information page in PAC. Here you can view personal information such as email address and birthday, view job information such as check address and job summary and edit other information such as address, phone number, and emergency contact. Viewing Non-Active Faculty & Staff On the Employee List, only active faculty and staff are displayed. To view faculty and staff who are not active (for example, on a Leave of Absence, Terminated, etc.), select an Effective Date when they were in active status: Go to the ”View Employee Personal Info” page within the Job and Information section of Manager Self-Service Change the date to one day before the non-active status went into effect (for example, if Joan Smith went on a Leave of Absence on 10/15/YYYY you would enter 10/14/YYYY) Press the "Go" button; the Employee List will refresh, displaying the active employees as of that date Click on the employee’s name and their information page will display (where you can generate a PAF) Viewing Information for an Employee with Multiple Positions in Different Departments (i.e. Casual Employees) Information for employees with multiple positions in different departments is accessible by the respective administrative department for each position. To verify whether an employee holds a position in another department, contact the HR Service Center. Pay Inquiries for an Employee with Multiple Positions in Different Departments Faculty and staff with multiple positions in different departments receive a single paycheck with their total pay from all departments. Only the DA who administers the employee’s primary position will be able to see the check in either the Department or Employee Payroll Reports in Manager Self-Service. If you believe there is a discrepancy with the pay, either an overpayment, under payment or missed pay, first contact the HR Service Center to verify the employee holds a position in another department. Upon determining a pay error occurred, follow the appropriate process to correct. Visit the Pay Error Corrections and Overpayments topics for additional information. For complete information about viewing employee records, consult the Manager Self-Service Training Guide. Processing Personal Data Changes A personal data change is submitted for an employee when the personal information must be updated in the employee's record. Practice Once a personal data change is known, submit the change along with the required documentation. Once it is entered into the PAC system, it is viewable in the Employee Personal Information section of Manager Self-Service and the employee can also see the change reflected in Employee Self-Service, if applicable. For each type of personal data that needs to be changed: If the original paperwork was correct, attach a copy of the original paperwork to the personal data change/correction PAF. No further documentation is required. If the original paperwork was not correct, or has changed, you must provide the following documentation to make the change: Name If the change is a spelling or format correction, no additional documentation is required If the change is an official name change, then the appropriate documentation is required (e.g., a social security card and either a marriage certificate or a court order) Sex: No documentation required Birthdate: Driver's license, passport or birth certificate Ethnicity: no documentation required Marital status: Marriage certificate, death certificate or court papers Education: Diploma or graduation letter Social security number: Social security card Visa/citizenship: I-9 Process Generate an active PAF for the employee from the Employee Personal Information page in the manager self-service section of the People @ Columbia (PAC) system. For more information on how to print PAFs, access the MSS Guide. Enter the action/reason codes and effective date at the top of the PAF (see chart below). In the appropriate sections of the PAF, draw/type a single line through information that needs to be changed and print/type the new information in the updated fields. Verify that the form is complete, sign it, attach the appropriate documentation and route it to the appropriate office for approval, along with the required supporting documentation for the transaction. Action / Reason Codes for Personal Data Changes Please note: The action/reason codes below will not appear on your Personnel Action Report in manager self-service, since these are personal data changes. The exceptions are DTA/SSN and DTA/VSA, which will appear as listed. Action/reason codes for Personal Data Changes Action Code DTA Reason Code Name Description Name change Action Code DTA Reason Code Sex Description Gender change Action Code DTA Reason Code Birthdate Description Birthdate change Action Code DTA Reason Code Ethnicity Description Ethnicity change Action Code DTA Reason Code Marital status Description Marital status and/or marital status date change Action Code DTA Reason Code Education Description Education change Action Code DTA Reason Code SSN Description Social security number change Action Code DTA Reason Code VSA Description Visa type and/or visa date change Action Code DTA Reason Code Citizenship Description Citizenship change Please refer to the How to Complete a PAF job aid for more information on completing the form, and the action/reason code job aid for a complete listing of all action/reason codes. HR Manager Toolkit Workplace Management Time & Attendance Vacation Balances & Org Charts Personal Data Promotions, Transfers & Retirement Layoffs & Terminations Managing Salary & Pay Salary Changes & Adjustments Compensation & Salary Accounting Flexible Work Arrangements Performance Management Workplace Conduct Management Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close