Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Welcome Orientation & New Hire Info Employment Overview Employment Overview Welcome to Columbia. As you get started, review the following core employment information and responsibilities. Expand all Collapse all Employment Basics Your Employment Group Your employment group determines how your position is managed in Columbia systems, including benefits and salary grades. Learn more about your employment group. Job Responsibilities The responsibilities of each non-academic position at the University are provided in a job description or job questionnaire. At Morningside campus, Human Resources Client Services reviews positions to determine the appropriate classification level. At the Medical Center and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, this function is assumed by the local Human Resources Office. Over time, the responsibilities of a position may change or grow. Some changes warrant an updated job description and a job reevaluation by the appropriate area. Doing more work will not, of itself, dictate a higher grade. The type and complexity of duties, level of responsibility and additional amount of skill and judgment necessary to do a job are among the factors considered. If your job is reevaluated and upgraded, you may receive a salary increase. If it is downgraded, your salary will remain the same while you are in the position. Your supervisor should be able to provide you with a copy of the job description or job questionnaire for your position. Employees covered under a collective bargaining agreement should consult the relevant agreement. Your Supervisor Your supervisor can address your questions concerning job responsibilities and departmental and University policies. Probationary Period - Support Staff New Support Staff will be on probation for the first 60 to 120 calendar days of employment (probationary periods vary based on the collective bargaining agreement). The probationary period is a time to learn new responsibilities, establish working relationships and determine whether or not the job is a good fit for you. Certain benefits do not accrue until the probationary period is completed. Your supervisor will let you know whether you have passed the probationary period. Hours of Work The regular work day for most support staff is 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., excluding a one-hour lunch period. This schedule results in a 35-hour week. Service and maintenance employees and certain other employees have different work hours. Certain offices and departments, because of the nature of their operation, may also require different work schedules. Specific schedules and changes should be discussed with your supervisor. Salary Increases Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements receive wage increases in accordance with the provisions of their respective agreements. For other employees, your salary and job performance are typically reviewed once a year by your supervisor or department head. Quality and quantity of work, changes in level of responsibility, interest, attendance and cooperation are among the factors considered in a performance review. Salary increases are based on your performance and on University and departmental budget allocations. All salaries for Officers of Instruction are subject to review by the relevant dean, department chair or vice president, as well as by the Office of the Provost on Morningside Campus or the Office of the Vice President for Health Sciences at Columbia University Medical Center. Salary review for all Officers typically occurs before July 1 of each year. Support staff members not covered by a collective bargaining agreement generally have salary reviews on the anniversary date of their hire or last promotion. Welcome to Columbia University Orientation & New Hire Info New Hire Orientation online Checklist I-9 and E-Verify Employment Overview Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close