Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Welcome Getting to Know Columbia University Getting to Know Columbia University For 265 years, Columbia University has been a leader in higher education in the nation and around the world. Learn about the University's history, take a self-guided walking tour of the main campus in Morningside Heights, New York City, check out the list of Nobel Laureates—including alumni, faculty, adjunct faculty, researchers and administrators—and did you know we are the administrators of the Pulitzer Prizes? Expand all Collapse all Highlights About the University Since its founding in 1754, Columbia University has been dedicated to teaching, research and clinical care. To promote an environment that allows everyone in the Columbia community to do their best work, be respected and have as positive an experience as possible, the University's Mission Statement and Statement of Ethical Conduct guide everything we do. Columbia University Organizational Chart Columbia University is an independent, privately supported, nonsectarian institution of higher education. Its official corporate name is “The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.” Academic activity at the University is primarily organized through its faculties and departments of instruction. To direct instruction and research that crosses departmental and faculty lines, the University establishes administrative boards, institutes, centers, laboratories and interdepartmental programs. Affiliated with the University, but corporately separate, are other educational institutions, hospitals and research institutes. Learn about the Organization and Governance of the University. The Campuses Columbia University’s main campus is situated on Morningside Heights in Upper Manhattan. The Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) is located two and a half miles north of the main campus in Washington Heights. In between the main campus and CUIMC sits Manhattanville, the University's newest campus. Across the Hudson River in Palisades, New York, is the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. And the Nevis Laboratories are located in Irvington, New York. The University also maintains an educational facility at Reid Hall in Paris, France. The intercampus shuttle is a great way to move between campuses. Go to the Public Safety department's Maps & Schedules for more. Sustainability At Columbia University we recognize that to be truly sustainable is to take a multi-faceted and multi-tiered approach. We are looking to tackle these issues through world-renowned research occurring right here on our campus, engaging staff leadership and individual participation. Every member of the Columbia community has a role to play in achieving our sustainability goals. Learn more about Sustainable Columbia. Welcome to Columbia University Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards & Email Orientation & New Hire Info Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close