Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Retiree Benefits Retirement Checklist Retirement Checklist Expand all Collapse all Officers Checklist Pre-Retirement Notify your department or school in writing at least 90 days before your retirement date. Contact any retirement plan carriers where you have your retirement assets to discuss options 90 days before retirement. To inquire if any necessary forms are required, please contact TIAA and/or Vanguard. If eligible for a defined benefit pension, request final calculation of your benefit and return the completed forms to the University. If you have a 457 Deferred Compensation Plan, contact Vanguard before retirement to discuss payment options. Contact the Columbia Benefits Service Center for a retirement counseling appointment. Advise if you are currently completing a degree program or have children that are or may be eligible for continued tuition benefits. Faculty should also contact the Office of Faculty Retirement for information on transitioning to retirement. If you are 65 or older, 90 days prior to your retirement contact the Social Security Administration at 800-772-1213 to request enrollment in Medicare Part A & B and inquire about Social Security payments. If you are under age 65 at the time of retirement, contact Social Security at least three months prior to your 65th birthday. How to enroll in retiree medical and dental benefits: Review medical plan comparison charts and premiums to elect your medical plan under Columbia University’s retiree medical plans. Complete and return your Medical Plan Election Form for Retirees and your Dental Plan Enrollment form. Post-Retirement FSA, Transit and Parking benefits should be reviewed in order to submit reimbursement for expenses incurred prior to retirement. Submit claims for reimbursement before March 31 of the year following retirement. Dental, life insurance and long-term care benefits can be continued after retirement. Respond to mailings received at home promptly. If you choose retiree medical coverage through the University, expect to receive premium coupons from EBPA to make monthly payments for the medical plan. If you choose retiree dental coverage, complete the required enrollment form and make payments to EBPA. Update your Columbia ID in order to maintain your continued association with Columbia and have access to discounts, library, gym facilities, class auditing, etc. Expand all Collapse all Support Staff Checklist Pre-Retirement Notify your department or school in writing at least 90 days before your retirement date. Contact any retirement plan carriers where you have your retirement assets to discuss options 90 days before retirement. To inquire if any necessary forms are required, please contact TIAA and/or Vanguard. Contact the Columbia Benefits Service Center for a retirement counseling appointment. If eligible for a defined benefit pension, request final calculation of your benefit and return the completed forms. Complete the Beneficiary designation form for the life insurance benefit provided by Columbia University. If you are age 65 or older, 60 days prior to your retirement, contact Social Security Administration at 800-772-1213 to request enrollment into Part A & B and inquire about Social Security payments. If you are under age 65 at the time of retirement, be sure to contact Social Security at least three months prior to your 65th birthday. How to enroll in retiree medical benefits: Review the medical plan options from Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield to familiarize yourself with the benefits. Complete the Retiree Medical Election form if you wish to elect the Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield coverage. Post-Retirement FSA, Transit and Parking benefits should be reviewed in order to submit reimbursement for expenses incurred prior to retirement. Submit claims for reimbursement within 90 days of your retirement. Life Insurance benefits can be continued after retirement. Respond to mailings received at home promptly. Retiree Benefits Prospective Retiree - Support Staff Prospective Retiree - Officers Current Retiree - Support Staff Current Retiree - Officers Resources Retirement Checklist Eligibility Making Changes to Your Benefits Retirement Workshops Understanding Medicare FAQs Retiree Contacts Health Advocate Re-Employment Employee Assistance Program Well-being Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close