Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Health & Welfare Officers - Health & Welfare Officers - Tax Savings Accounts Officers - Flexible Spending Accounts Officers - Flexible Spending Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) allow you to contribute pre-tax money to reimburse yourself for eligible healthcare and dependent day care expenses. You must enroll within 31 days of hire or a Qualified Life Status Change and you must also re-enroll each year during Benefits Open Enrollment to take advantage of FSAs. Expand all Collapse all Using FSAs New Rules for 2021 and 2022 What you need to know: Healthcare and Dependent Care FSA unused funds The complete balance of unused Healthcare and Dependent Care FSA funds from 2020 rolled over into 2021 Use 2020 FSA funds through December 31, 2021 The complete balance of unused Healthcare and Dependent Care FSA funds from 2021 will roll over into 2022 Use 2021 Healthcare FSA funds through March 31, 2022 Use 2021 Dependent Care FSA funds through December 31, 2022 Dependent Care FSA annual maximum contribution 2021: $10,500 (a temporary increase from $5,000) 2022: $5,000 Dependent care FSA eligibility 2021: age temporarily raised from 13 to 14, for 2020 funds, for use through December 31, 2021. More Updates Prescriptions are no longer required for certain over-the-counter (OTC) drugs and medications Menstrual care products are now considered qualified medical expenses How FSAs Work FSAs allow you to set aside pre-tax money to reimburse yourself for eligible expenses. Since your FSA contributions reduce your gross taxable income, you pay lower taxes and take home more money. If you elect an FSA, you contribute to it in equal installments each pay period throughout the calendar year. You cannot change your election amount during the calendar year unless you have a Qualified Life Status Change. Please refer to “Making Changes to Your Benefits” for more details. Keep in Mind If your medical expenses exceed 7.5% of your adjusted gross income and you itemize deductions, you may be better off deducting your expenses from your income tax. You may want to consult with a tax adviser or financial professional to determine which works best for you. Also, you may use the Dependent Care FSA, the federal tax credit or a combination of both for your eligible dependent care expenses. Your choice will depend on your family income and the number of dependents you have in eligible day care programs. Generally, if your family’s adjusted gross income exceeds $40,000, you may save more in taxes using the Dependent Care FSA. Please consult your tax adviser for additional guidance. Healthcare FSA A Healthcare FSA helps you pay for eligible healthcare expenses, including medical, prescription drug and dental copays and deductibles, as well as vision and hearing services. For a list of eligible expenses, please visit myuhc.com or www.irs.gov (Publication 502) The current IRS limit for the Healthcare FSA is $2,850* You can elect between $120 and $2,850* in this account to cover out-of-pocket eligible healthcare expenses for yourself, your spouse and your children, even if you do not elect to cover them under a University medical plan. However, a dependent's expenses only qualify if he or she is claimed on your taxes. The full annual election amount is available for claim reimbursement as of your account's effective date. If you are hired after January 1, you can elect to contribute the maximum contribution limit ($2,850*) provided you have not contributed during the year to an FSA with Columbia University. If you are married, your spouse may also contribute $2,850* to an FSA sponsored by his/her employer. Note: If you have a balance in your Healthcare FSA from 2021, it will rollover to 2022 and you will automatically be enrolled in a Healthcare FSA in 2022. *IRS limits are subject to change. Dependent Care FSA A Dependent Care FSA helps you pay for eligible child or adult day care expenses for your dependents, such as licensed day care centers and nursery schools, before school or after-school programs and home attendants. Note: for dependents’ health-related expenses, use the Healthcare FSA. The Dependent Care FSA helps you pay the cost of dependent day care services for an adult or child because you work or attend school. If you are married, your spouse must also work or go to school while you are at work in order to qualify for this coverage. You can contribute up to $5,000* to a Dependent Care FSA. If you are married, the IRS has several guidelines that might affect how much you can deposit: If your spouse also has a Dependent Care FSA at work and you file a joint tax return – your combined deposits cannot exceed $5,000* If you are married and file separate income taxes – the most you can contribute is $2,500* If your prior year W-2 earnings exceed $135,000* ($130,000 prior to January 1, 2022) Columbia Benefits may contact you to inform you whether your contributions must be capped as a result of mandatory IRS testing You can be reimbursed for the cost of services provided for: Dependent children under the age of 13. If your child will turn 13 during the year, you can submit claims only for expenses incurred up to the child’s birthday. You may be eligible to disenroll from the Dependent Care FSA once your child reaches age 13 as part of a Change in Dependent Care Cost Other dependents, including a parent, spouse or spouse’s child who is physically or mentally unable to care for himself or herself and who qualifies as a tax dependent Your reimbursement for dependent care cannot exceed the balance in your account at the time of your claim. If the money in your account is insufficient to pay your claim, the balance will be paid later as your pre-tax payroll contributions accumulate in your account. When you incur an eligible dependent care expense, you can use your Health Care Spending Card to pay for the expense at participating locations. The card will only accept expenses up to the balance in your account at the time of use. Note: If you have a balance in your Dependent Care FSA from 2021, it will roll over to 2022 and you will automatically be enrolled in a Dependent FSA in 2022. Eligible Dependent Care Providers: Qualified child or adult day care centers Babysitters Summer day camps Nursery schools, pre-schools, before-school and after-school programs Person who cares for an elderly or disabled person that you claim as a dependent on your tax return Note: You must be able to identify the name, address and Social Security Number (SSN) of the person who provides the dependent care. If you use a child or adult day care center, you must provide the Taxpayer Identification Number. For additional information, see IRS Publication 503. Child Care Benefit Eligible Officers can elect to receive up to a $4,000 contribution from Columbia to a Dependent Care FSA. If you elect this benefit during the year because of a Qualified Life Status Change, you will receive a prorated portion of the benefit. To be eligible for this benefit, you must meet all of the eligibility criteria below: Be a full-time, benefits-eligible Officer with an Annual Benefits Salary of less than or equal to $135,000* ($130,000 prior to January 1, 2022). Have a dependent child under the age of 6 (age 5 prior to January 1, 2022) and not yet attending kindergarten who: Has been verified by the Columbia Benefits Service Center as an eligible dependent; and Meets the IRS definition of a tax dependent Elect to participate in the Child Care Benefit as a new hire, during the annual Open Enrollment period or if you experience a Qualified Life Status Change. There is a limit of a single benefit per family regardless of the number of eligible children, and regardless of whether both parents are eligible employees. If you receive the Child Care Benefit, you can also contribute personal pre-tax payroll contributions to your Dependent Care FSA. The total contributions between the Dependent Care FSA and the Child Care Benefit cannot exceed the $5,000* annual maximum. *IRS limits are subject to change. Healthcare FSA vs. Health Savings Account (HSA) Feature Do I need to be in a specific medical plan to participate? FSA No, you can be enrolled in any of the University’s medical plans, or have coverage from another source. HSA Yes, you must be enrolled in the University’s HDHP medical plan to participate. Feature Is there an IRS maximum annual contribution? FSA Yes Healthcare: $2,850* HSA Yes Employee: $3,650 Family: $7,300 Those 55 and older can contribute an additional $1,000* annually. Feature When will my annual election be available? FSA The full annual election amount is available for claim reimbursement as of your account’s effective date. HSA HSA funds are sent as soon as administratively possible after each payroll to Optum Bank. Feature Will my savings roll over each year? FSA Yes Unlimited in 2021 to 2022. Up to $550 in future years* HSA Yes Unlimited Feature Will I earn interest on my savings? FSA No HSA Yes Feature Are withdrawals for eligible expenses tax-free? FSA Yes HSA Yes Feature Will I get a debit card? FSA Yes HSA Yes Feature Do I keep the money if I leave the University? FSA No Option to continue Healthcare FSA only through COBRA HSA Yes Feature Can I also have an FSA? FSA N/A HSA No Dependent Care FSA only * IRS limits are subject to change. Important IRS Note The IRS does not permit you to elect both a Healthcare FSA and an HSA. If your spouse has one of the two—for example, through another employer—you cannot elect another type of tax-savings account. If you have a balance in your Healthcare FSA from 2021, it will rollover to 2022 and you will automatically be enrolled in a Healthcare FSA in 2022. However, if you would like to contribute in 2022, you must enroll in the Healthcare FSA during Open Enrollment. *IRS limits are subject to change. Health Care Spending Card After you elect an FSA, UHC will mail you a Health Care Spending Card in your name. This card is linked to the Healthcare and Dependent Care FSA accounts you elect. When you incur an eligible healthcare or dependent care expense, such as prescription drugs or office visit copays, you can use your Health Care Spending Card to pay for the expense at participating locations. If you do not use your card at the time of purchase, keep your receipt(s). You may need to submit a claim to UHC so you can 1) be reimbursed for the out-of-pocket expense from your FSA; and/or 2) to substantiate your expenses with UHC if you are manually filing a claim. Convenient Automatic Reimbursement If you are enrolled in a University-provided medical and/or dental plan, you will be automatically reimbursed for most medical, prescription, vision and dental out-of-pocket expenses. This convenient automated feature processes claims—and then automatically sends Healthcare FSA participants reimbursement checks for their out-of-pocket costs if those claims were submitted to the Columbia University health plans. Opting out of automatic reimbursement If you prefer to manage your FSA funds and choose which expenses are reimbursed, you can opt out of the claim auto-rollover at any time by logging in to www.myuhc.com. If you opt out, you will need to file reimbursement claims online or manually with UHC. Note: You must opt out of the claim auto-rollover each year. Eligibility Regarding Same-Sex Domestic Partners IRS regulations do not allow you to use FSA funds for expenses incurred by or on behalf of same-sex domestic partners, or their children, unless they qualify as your legal tax dependents. Create an Account on myuhc.com If you are covered under a Columbia-provided medical plan: Go to myuhc.com and click on “Register Now.” Your UHC ID card includes information you will need to register. Or, you can register using your Social Security Number and date of birth. Click on “View Account Balances,” then select “Flexible Spending Account(s).” Don’t Have a Health Plan with UHC? You do not need to be a member of a Columbia health plan to participate in an FSA. To manage your FSA expenses, you can register using your Social Security Number as your member ID and date of birth. Under group/policy number, enter “902784.” Optum Online Store Select from hundreds of health products at the Optum Store. Regardless of medical plan enrollment, you may use your Flexible Spending Account (FSA) and Health Savings Account (HSA) benefit. The online store carries over-the-counter medications and physical health products, including: Cold, allergy and sinus Feminine care and family planning Baby and childcare Diagnostic test kits High-tech health devices Have questions? FAQs have you covered. Important Note on Leaving the University If you leave the University or become ineligible for benefits, you can only be reimbursed for expenses incurred prior to your employment end date or the date you become ineligible for benefits. Any remaining funds would be forfeited. Health & Welfare Benefits Officers - Health & Welfare Eligibility Dependent Eligibility Medical Dental Vision Prescription Drug Tax Savings Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts Health Savings Account Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program Life Insurance Accidental Death & Dismemberment Disability Insurance Voluntary Benefits Well-being Related Documents FSA Claim Form Eligible FSA Expenses Dependent Care Reimbursement Form FSA Brochure FSA Online Claim Guide FSA Direct Deposit HSA vs. FSA Comparison Chart UHC Flexible Spending Account Plan Benefits Tools CUBES Making Changes to Your Benefits Vendor Contacts FAQs - Benefits Glossary What Is My Employment Group? Benefits Policies Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close