Skip to Main Content Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Visit the Institute A Statement of Solidarity 2020–21 Annual Report All Annual Reports People Director Governing Board Institute Faculty 2021-22 Fellows Seminar Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Collaborative Humanities Fellows Staff Centers/Initiatives Black Visualities Initiative Brown University Humanities Initiative Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Center of Excellence Collaborative Humanities Initiative Economies of Aesthetics Environmental Humanities at Brown Humanities in the World Political Concepts Funding Opportunities Opportunities Calendar Courses/Certificate Fall 2022 Courses Undergraduate Collaborative Humanities Courses Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Collaborative Humanities Seminars All Past Courses Media Blog: The Humanities in Practice Meeting Street Podcast YouTube Channel Connect Search Cogut Institute for the Humanities Economies of Aesthetics Directed by Peter Szendy, David Herlihy Professor of Humanities and Comparative Literature Breadcrumb Home Initiatives and Centers Sub Navigation In This Section Black Visualities Initiative Brown University Humanities Initiative Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Center of Excellence Collaborative Humanities Initiative Economies of Aesthetics Environmental Humanities at Brown Humanities in the World Political Concepts Economies of Aesthetics Directed by Peter Szendy, David Herlihy Professor of Humanities and Comparative Literature Economic categories—debt, exchange, value, and so on—have often been dramatized by writers, filmmakers, artists, and musicians. Shylock in Shakespeare’s Merchant of Venice, the Banker in Berg’s Lulu, Scorsese’s The Wolf of Wall Street: many a fictional character has been inspired by the vicissitudes of finance. But economy is not only present in novels, screenplays, or operatic librettos as an element of their plot: it also pervades their very texture—their textual, filmic, or sonic fabric. After Saussure, who described the linguistic web of significations as a system of fluctuating values between words, Deleuze wrote that “money is the reverse of all the images that cinema shows and edits on the obverse.” In sum, there is an intrinsically economic dimension to the languages of art. Aesthetic practices thus capture various aspects of economy. They represent them, engage with them. The title of this initiative—Economies of Aesthetics—refers first of all to these multiple facets of economy that somehow belong to the field of arts. But there is another, more critical side to this endeavor. Aesthetics could also be taken in a Kantian sense: time and space as the conditions of possibility for any experience. Economies of Aesthetics should then be understood in a quite different way: revisiting Kant’s transcendental aesthetics, we will reflect on space and time as subjected to violent appropriations by economic logics and agendas. The Economies of Aesthetics initiative will host a variety of events: conferences, lectures, workshops, seminars, exhibitions, concerts, screenings, and readings. April 5-6, 2019 | Narratives of Debt Contemporary critical theorists explored the question of debt in an interdisciplinary perspective. The conference examined the various ways of narrating—witnessing—the condition of being indebted and the historical rise of indebtedness as a mode of governance, each narrative entailing decisions about justice, ethics, politics. Visit Page Open details for April 5-6, 2019 | Narratives of Debt News from Brown Paris exhibition showcases Brown professor’s research on the economy of images March 5, 2020 “The Supermarket of Images,” an exhibition on view at the Jeu de Paume through June 2020, explores how images shape and change people’s lives. Read Article Open details for Paris exhibition showcases Brown professor’s research on the economy of images Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women 2020–21 Pembroke seminar, led by Peter Szendy, explores Narrating Debt. June 1, 2020 Debt itself also has to be considered as a narrative, i.e. a performative fiction that organizes time by linking past, present, and future in a diegetic chain. Hence, the first word in the proposed title for the seminar, “Narrating Debt,” should be considered both as a verb (the object of which is debt) and as an adjective (that qualifies debt as being intrinsically narrative). Read Article Open details for 2020–21 Pembroke seminar, led by Peter Szendy, explores Narrating Debt. Duke University Press Feminist cultural studies journal differences publishes Narratives of Debt special issue. December 1, 2020 The issue is guest edited by Peter Szendy and features contributions by Arjun Appadurai, Anthony Bogues, Emmanuel Bouju, Silvia Federici, Mikkel Krause Frantzen, Raphaelle Guidée, Odette Lienau, Catherine Malabou, Vincent Message, Laura Odello, Peter Szendy, and Frederik Tygstrup. As the problem of debt grows more and more urgent in light of the central role it plays in neoliberal capitalism, scholars have analyzed debt using numerous approaches: historical analysis, legal arguments, psychoanalytic readings, claims for reparations in postcolonial debates, and more. Contributors to this special issue of differences argue that these diverse approaches presuppose a fundamental connection between indebtedness and narrative. They see debt as a promise that refers to the future—deferred repayment that purports to make good on a past deficit—which implies a narrative in a way that other forms of exchange may not. The authors approach this intertwining of debt and narration from the perspectives of continental philosophy, international law, the history of slavery, comparative literature, feminist critique, and more. Read Article Open details for Feminist cultural studies journal differences publishes Narratives of Debt special issue. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Visit the Institute A Statement of Solidarity 2020–21 Annual Report All Annual Reports People Director Governing Board Institute Faculty 2021-22 Fellows Seminar Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Collaborative Humanities Fellows Staff Centers/Initiatives Black Visualities Initiative Brown University Humanities Initiative Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Center of Excellence Collaborative Humanities Initiative Economies of Aesthetics Environmental Humanities at Brown Humanities in the World Political Concepts Funding Opportunities Opportunities Calendar Courses/Certificate Fall 2022 Courses Undergraduate Collaborative Humanities Courses Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Collaborative Humanities Seminars All Past Courses Media Blog: The Humanities in Practice Meeting Street Podcast YouTube Channel Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Economies of Aesthetics Open details for Economies of Aesthetics Bookmark this Page