Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Health & Welfare TWU - Health and Welfare TWU - Dental Coverage TWU - Dental Coverage As a TWU member, you have three dental plan options: The EmblemHealth Preferred Dental Benefits Plan B (“EmblemHealth Dental”), the Aetna Columbia Dental Plan, or the Aetna Dental Maintenance Organization (DMO) plan. Expand all Collapse all EmblemHealth Dental Overview This plan covers preventive, basic and major services. You may choose to use participating EmblemHealth dentists or go to a nonparticipating dentist. If you use a participating dentist, no forms are required If you use a nonparticipating dentist, you pay the provider then file a claim for reimbursement You’ll be reimbursed up to the allowance shown on the EmblemHealth Dental fee schedule for covered services, available from EmblemHealth You may pay the difference between the total charge and the amount the Plan covers For a list of participating dentists, go to: emblemhealth.com/find-a-doctor/directory; select “Dental Preferred;” enter your preferred location to search for participating providers nearby. For more information, call EmblemHealth: 212-501-4443. Coverage Chart EmblemHealth Dental Plan Overview Benefit Preventive and Diagnostic Services (examinations, cleanings, X-rays, fluoride treatments,* space maintainers*) In-Network 100% Out-of-Network Reimbursement subject to established plan schedule Benefit Basic Services (extractions, root canals, gum disease, oral surgery, anesthesia, pain relief, denture repair, tests, lab exams) In-Network 100% Out-of-Network Reimbursement subject to established plan schedule Benefit Major Services (dentures, crowns) In-Network 100% Out-of-Network Reimbursement subject to established plan schedule Benefit Maximum Annual Benefit In-Network $1,200 Out-of-Network $1,200 * For dependent children only. Expand all Collapse all Aetna Dental Overview The University offers two comprehensive dental plans through Aetna. Both plans cover the same range of services. No matter which plan you choose you can locate providers, review your dental benefits coverage, and get cost estimates at aetna.com. Aetna Columbia Dental Plan: Choose from a broad range of dentists in three categories, including Columbia University College of Dental Medicine faculty and alumni—the “Columbia Preferred Dental Network”, or dentists in the national Aetna PPO network. You may also see an out-of-network dentist, although your cost may be significantly higher. Aetna Dental Maintenance Organization (DMO): Under this plan, monthly premiums are generally lower and there is no deductible, or annual or lifetime benefit maximums, for most major services. You must choose a primary care dentist from the Aetna DMO network. Referrals are needed for specialists and there is no out-of-network coverage. Aetna Dental Comparison Chart View Aetna Dental Plan Comparison Chart Using the Aetna Dental Network If you see an Aetna-participating dentist, you will not be billed for fees that exceed the Aetna-negotiated amount. To locate an Aetna participating dentist, go to Vendor Contacts. Using the Columbia Preferred Dental Network When you use a dentist who participates in the Columbia University network, you receive a greater benefit for services. To locate a Columbia Preferred dentist, go to Vendor Contacts. Columbia Preferred dentists are located throughout the tristate area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Columbia Preferred dentists accept reimbursement for services covered at 100% as payment in full. You are not responsible for paying any fees that exceed the network-negotiated fees. You also do not have to submit any claim forms when you use a network participating dentist. Columbia Preferred Dental Plan Facilities Website: cudentalassociates.columbia.edu Columbia Dental Associates Morningside Associates 1244 Amsterdam Avenue (near 121st Street) New York, NY 10027 212-342-2300 and 430 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-662-4887 Columbia Dental Associates Medical Center Practice 100 Haven Avenue New York, NY 10032 212-342-0107 Columbia-Presbyterian Eastside Dental Faculty Practice Columbia Doctors Midtown 51 West 51st Street Suite 350 New York, NY 10019 212-326-8520 Columbia Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery Vanderbilt Clinic 622 West 168th Street 7th Floor New York, NY 10032 212-305-4552 Using the Aetna DMO Network Everyone enrolled in the Aetna Dental Maintenance Organization (DMO) plan must go to providers in the Aetna DMO network. To keep your dental care on track, consider selecting your primary care dentist (PCD) now, in advance of your regular checkup or whenever you next require dental care. Referrals are needed for specialists and there is no out-of-network coverage. If you have not registered on Aetna’s website, create a user account at aetna.com. After logging in, search for primary care dentists under “Find care and pricing”. Choose your primary care dentist online or by calling Aetna at 800-773-9326. A primary care dentist (PCD) helps guide your dental care. You and each family member must each choose a PCD from the Aetna DMO network (does not have to be the same PCD). If you go to a dentist other than your selected PCD, you could end up paying more. See your PCD for regular exams and to get referrals if you need specialty care You can change your PCD once a month on your member website. Switch by the 15th day of the current month. The change will start the first day of the next month. Pay your share of the cost. This may be a copay, which is a set dollar amount. Or it may be coinsurance, which is a percentage of the dentist’s charge. Have a flexible spending account (FSA)? You can use the funds to help with these costs. No deductible, no claims forms and no yearly dollar limits. To locate an Aetna DMO participating dentist, go to Vendor Contacts. Prior to January 1, 2022, the DMO is available in the following U.S. states: California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, North Carolina, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and Texas. The DMO is not available outside the U.S. Effective January 1, 2022, the Aetna DMO is available only within certain zip codes. If the DMO is not an available option for you on CUBES, it means that your home address is in a zip code where the DMO is not offered. The DMO is not available outside the U.S. Expand all Collapse all Monthly Pre-Tax Contributions Full-Time Employees 2022 Monthly Pre-Tax Contributions for Dental Available to Full-Time TWU Members Only Yourself EmblemHealth Dental $0 Aetna Columbia Dental Plan $30.00 Aetna DMO $12.57 Available to Full-Time TWU Members Only You Plus One EmblemHealth Dental $0* Aetna Columbia Dental Plan $74.00 Aetna DMO $35.83 Available to Full-Time TWU Members Only Family EmblemHealth Dental $0* Aetna Columbia Dental Plan $118.00 Aetna DMO $35.83 *Dependent children can only be covered for EmblemHealth Dental through the end of the calendar year in which they turn 19. Dental ID Cards Aetna will mail a letter confirming your enrollment—not an ID card. Share a copy of this letter with your dentist, or simply give your name, date of birth and member ID number (or your Social Security Number). If you prefer to have an ID card, go to Aetna’s website to download and print. Health & Welfare Benefits TWU - Health and Welfare Eligibility Dependent Eligibility Medical Dental Vision Prescription Drug Tax Savings Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program Life Insurance Voluntary Benefits Well-being Dental Providers Contact Information Related Documents EmblemHealth Dental Certificate EmblemHealth Preferred Dental Plan B Aetna Dental Claim Form Benefits Tools CUBES Making Changes to Your Benefits Vendor Contacts FAQs - Benefits Glossary What Is My Employment Group? Benefits Policies Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close