Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Most everyone wants to get outside during warm summer days. When you do go out in the sun, don't forget to protect your skin (with sunscreen, clothing and a wide-brimmed hat) and stay hydrated. Hot Tip for Keeping Cool: It takes 7 to 10 days for your body to adapt to a change in temperature. If you usually exercise indoors or in cooler weather, or if you’re new to exercise, be extra cautious when you exercise in the heat. Start slow. Take breaks. And help your body cool down by drinking water frequently. Expand all Collapse all Prepare for Summer Skin cancer check Kick off your summer with a…skin check. Skin cancer is the most common type of cancer in the U.S. A screening by a dermatologist can help spot issues early, preventing this disease or catching it at an early stage. Your dermatologist visit will either be covered with a copay if you’re in a Choice Plus plan, or it will count toward your annual deductible and then covered with coinsurance if you are in the High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP). Let your doctor know if you notice anything out of the ordinary, such as: Spots or moles that change, itch or bleed New spots or moles Also make your doctor aware of: Past severe sunburns, especially during childhood A personal or family history of skin cancer Artificial sunlight exposure, such as use of tanning beds More than Skin Deep Skin cancer that is recognized and treated early is often curable. Left untreated, it can spread to other parts of the body and become more serious and difficult to treat. Not all sunscreens are created equal When you reach for sunscreen, look for: SPF 15 or higher Avobenzone, zinc oxide and/or titanium dioxide Water resistance Broad-spectrum coverage (blocks ultraviolet A and B rays) In general, sunscreens with at least SPF 30 are reimbursable through a Healthcare Flexible Spending Account (FSA) or Health Savings Account (HSA). For specifics, go to myuhc.com or call 1-800-232-9357. For information on sunscreen ratings, check out the Environmental Working Group (EWG)’s Sunscreen Guide. QUICK TIP: Sunscreen expires! Toss anything you’ve had for over 2 years. Are your allergies in bloom? Don’t let allergies spoil your summer. See a doctor to get tested for your triggers. Your Columbia medical plan covers allergy testing Consider allergen-proof pillows; the difference in cost between regular and allergen-proof pillows can be reimbursed from a Healthcare FSA or HSA when your doctor deems them medically necessary. Wear oversized sunglasses to keep pollen out of your eyes on windy days. The cost of prescription sunglasses can be paid using an HSA or FSA. Plan activities and exercise past sundown when pollen counts are lower School's Out Summer presents new schedules and routines. If your children have allergies, be sure they have access to their medications at camp, on vacation and while traveling. If you can't take the heat... …you may be suffering from heat exhaustion. Symptoms can include muscle cramps, dizziness, headache, confusion, excessive thirst and a weak, rapid pulse. To avoid overheating when outdoors, wear light colors and lightweight clothing, take breaks in the shade and make sure you stay hydrated—especially if you are engaged in sports or other physical activities. If you or someone else appears to have heat exhaustion, spray yourself or them with cool water and seek out an air-conditioned space. If there’s no improvement within an hour, call 911 and seek emergency medical treatment. Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close