Skip to Main Content Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Visit the Institute A Statement of Solidarity 2020–21 Annual Report All Annual Reports People Director Governing Board Institute Faculty 2021-22 Fellows Seminar Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Collaborative Humanities Fellows Staff Centers/Initiatives Black Visualities Initiative Brown University Humanities Initiative Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Center of Excellence Collaborative Humanities Initiative Economies of Aesthetics Environmental Humanities at Brown Humanities in the World Political Concepts Funding Opportunities Opportunities Calendar Courses/Certificate Fall 2022 Courses Undergraduate Collaborative Humanities Courses Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Collaborative Humanities Seminars All Past Courses Media Blog: The Humanities in Practice Meeting Street Podcast YouTube Channel Connect Search Cogut Institute for the Humanities Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Promoting forms of cross-disciplinary work and community oriented toward the most challenging questions facing humanities research today. Breadcrumb Home Courses Sub Navigation In This Section Fall 2022 Courses Undergraduate Collaborative Humanities Courses Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Collaborative Humanities Seminars All Past Courses Cogut Collaborative Humanities Fellowship The Cogut Collaborative Humanities Fellowship supports doctoral students at any stage of their pursuit of the certificate. Students can hold the fellowship in the second, third, or fourth year of their doctoral program. Read more Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Promoting forms of cross-disciplinary work and community oriented toward the most challenging questions facing humanities research today. Collaboration is built through research practices dedicated to thinking together across disciplines and geographical locations. The program advances forms of inquiry through teaching models and student practices that experiment with group presentations, collaborative online discussions, co-authored seminar papers, and other forms of intellectual partnership. The doctoral certificate is part of the Institute's Collaborative Humanities Initiative and is directed by Amanda Anderson. Objectives An expanded sense of intellectual community for doctoral students in the humanities and the humanistic social sciences. An intensive form of interdisciplinary training, with emphasis on collaborative research, critical reflection on humanistic methods, and the development of collaborative skills. A valuable and distinctive credential for graduate students to advance their professional careers. 87 doctoral students enrolled in one or more collaborative humanities seminars in 2020–21 16 student home departments were represented in 2020–21. 31 certificate recipients to date since the origin of the program 40 collaboratively taught seminars between 2017 and 2022 49 Brown University faculty members between 2017 and 2022 25 faculty home departments and programs Requirements The Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities entails the completion of four courses and participation in the Collaborative Public Workshop, an event that concludes the program's capstone seminar each spring. HMAN 2400-level seminars are open to all students at the same time as they fulfill a requirement of the certificate. HMAN 2400 Seminars HMAN 2500 Workshop HMAN 2400 Seminars Three HMAN 2400-level seminars must be completed for credit. These seminars are organized around a key interdisciplinary topic, with an emphasis on theoretical and methodological questions. Collaborations are built into the course requirements and may include group presentations, collaborative online discussions, co-authored seminar papers as well as other forms of intellectual partnership. Courses in the HMAN 2400 series are open to all students at the same time as they fulfill a requirement of the certificate. The completion of two seminars in the HMAN 24*** series is a prerequisite to apply for enrollment in the certificate and the capstone Project Development Workshop. HMAN 2500 Workshop Taught in the spring semesters, the Project Development Workshop follows the completion of at least two seminars in the HMAN 24*** series and admission to the certificate program. Projects in development for this workshop can be individual or collaborative and might include a dissertation chapter, an article on method/theory, or a stand-alone essay related to the larger field. All those enrolling will submit a proposed project and formal application to the certificate program before the start of the semester. In addition to workshop sessions on projects, students perform a number of collateral academic roles: for example, they might nominate and introduce a key text considering larger questions of disciplinary and interdisciplinary method that was formative for their scholarly development; they might serve as first questioners for papers workshopped by others; and they might interview one of their peers and prepared an introduction to their work. The semester concludes with the annual Collaborative Public Workshop in which students offer public presentations of their project and enter in conversation with Brown University faculty and scholarly guest respondents. By providing training and preparation for roles that are crucial to the practice and fabric of academic life, yet are seldom the object of formal study and reflection, the Project Development Workshop reimagines the conditions and extends the limits of an interdisciplinary and collaborative research space. Collaborative Humanities Seminars Collaborative Humanities are organized around a key interdisciplinary topic, with an emphasis on theoretical and methodological questions together with collaborative practices. Courses in the HMAN 24*** are open to all students at the same time as they fulfill a requirement of the certificate. The Project Development Workshop is offered in spring semesters. Explore Admission to the Certificate We welcome indications of intent to pursue the certificate at any time. Formal application to the program normally takes place either in the fall, at the moment that a student prepares to enter the spring semester Project Development Workshop (HMAN 2500) after completion of at least two HMAN 24*** courses, or in the spring, in conjunction with applications for the Cogut Collaborative Humanities Fellowship. Fall Application Cycle Spring Application Cycle Cogut Collaborative Humanities Fellowship The Cogut Collaborative Humanities Fellowship supports doctoral students at any stage of their pursuit of the certificate. Students can hold the fellowship in the second, third, or fourth year of their doctoral program. Read more Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Visit the Institute A Statement of Solidarity 2020–21 Annual Report All Annual Reports People Director Governing Board Institute Faculty 2021-22 Fellows Seminar Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Collaborative Humanities Fellows Staff Centers/Initiatives Black Visualities Initiative Brown University Humanities Initiative Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Center of Excellence Collaborative Humanities Initiative Economies of Aesthetics Environmental Humanities at Brown Humanities in the World Political Concepts Funding Opportunities Opportunities Calendar Courses/Certificate Fall 2022 Courses Undergraduate Collaborative Humanities Courses Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Collaborative Humanities Seminars All Past Courses Media Blog: The Humanities in Practice Meeting Street Podcast YouTube Channel Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Open details for Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Bookmark this Page