Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Tuition Programs Officers - Reduced Employee Rate on Tuition Exemption Officers - Reduced Employee Rate on Tuition Exemption As a supplement to the Tuition Exemption Benefit, a reduced Employee Rate for tuition costs may be available, depending on your eligibility, for undergraduate and graduate courses at Columbia University. This employee tuition rate is available before waiting periods for Tuition Exemption are met, as well as after waiting periods for Officers taking a number of courses that exceeds the Tuition Exemption course limits. This is not a reimbursement or remission program; a portion of your tuition (35%) is simply exempted. However, you are responsible for the remaining tuition (65%) and all fees — course fees, textbooks and housing fees, etc., where applicable. Expand all Collapse all Eligibility For You Who Is Eligible Most regular, full-time, salaried Officers are eligible for this Employee Rate of 65% of tuition costs. The reduced rate is available in two instances: Before the two (2) year Tuition Exemption Benefit waiting period is met, the 65% Employee Rate can help cover the cost of courses outside Tuition Exemption. After the waiting period is met, the 65% Employee Rate can help cover the cost of courses over the Tuition Exemption Benefit limit. Those officers who are ineligible include: Visiting Officers of Instruction or Research Part-Time Officers Officers not on Columbia's United States payroll What's Covered The Reduced Employee Tuition Rates Program pays 35% of the undergraduate or graduate tuition costs, at Columbia only, for Officers each term. This means the Officer is responsible for 65% of the tuition costs. Post-baccalaureate certificate programs at Columbia University are considered graduate degree programs for Tuition Exemption Benefit purposes. The Program does not cover non-credit courses; course, lab or other school-specific fees; textbooks; housing fees; or tuition charged for auditing courses. Summer Term & Courses Not Covered Important Note About Summer Term Summer Term comprises several overlapping sessions. Individual summer sessions do not count as “terms.” The reduced Employee Tuition rate covers the available amount spread over the entire Summer Term, not the available amount for each session. For example, an Officer who is in a category eligible for the reduced Employee Tuition rate for one course would be able to receive the reduced Employee Tuition rate for one course during all the summer sessions. Courses Not Covered The following courses are not covered for any Officer by the Tuition Exemption Benefit OR by the 65% Employee Rate Program: Non-credit courses All courses at Teachers College or Barnard College Courses with no point/credit value Applied music courses (i.e., musical instrument instruction) Courses whose course number begins with the letter “Q” or “N,” unless such a course is taken to fulfill a degree requirement Any courses you audit All doctoral courses Changes in Employment Status View Table: Changes in Employment Status That May Affect Eligibility Expand all Collapse all How to Apply Application Process You must complete the application process for the reduced Employee Tuition rates at the beginning of each term. This means your Tuition Benefit Eligibility Form and other materials must be submitted to the appropriate office at your school during the Change of Program Period (see the Academic Calendar for details). If your application is not approved, you will be responsible for any tuition for courses you keep. Columbia University does not accept responsibility for denied coverage if you are found to be ineligible for the reduced Employee Tuition rate. Applying After you have been accepted as a student and registered for classes, apply for the reduced Employee Tuition Rate each term by completing the following steps: You will need to print, complete and sign your Tuition Benefit Eligibility Form in CUBES. Every Term: Log in CUBES with your UNI and password to print your Tuition Benefit Eligibility. If you are a graduate student taking courses related to your work, complete a Job-Related Graduate Course Certification form. This form must be completed by you and your supervisor signed in ink and dated by you and your supervisor. Attach the form to your Tuition Benefit Eligibility form. See information on Tax Treatment and Withholding During the Change of Program Period each academic term, please submit the completed and signed Tuition Exemption form and your signed original Job-Related Graduate Education Certification form (if it applies) to: [email protected]. In person drop off to: Morningside: Student Service Center in 205 Kent Hall CUIMC: Registration & Financial Services @ CUMC in 1-141 Black Building Dropping Courses & Exceptions If you do not want to continue a course, you should arrange with the appropriate School and the Registrar to drop it by the end of the first week of classes to avoid any possibility of financial responsibility. Note: Dropping all of your courses means withdrawing from the University. The University charges a $75 fee for all withdrawals from the University, and this fee is not covered under this Tuition Exemption Benefit Program. Tuition Programs Officers Primary Tuition Scholarship Program College Tuition Scholarship Program Tuition Exemption Reduced Employee Rate Job-Related Graduate Education Certification Tuition Tax Treatment College Coach Officers Tuition Exemption News Review Eligibility & Print Forms: Log in to CUBES Confirm access using multifactor authentication (DUO) Select "Tuition" in the menu On the Tuition Programs page, choose your program Resources Reduced Employee Rate Supplement to Tuition Exemption Tuition Exemption Benefit Policy Student in Good Standing Letter FAQs Work-Life Workshops In the event that the information contained on this page conflicts with any other published information, the policy prevails. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close