Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit HR Systems Training PAC Training PAC Training "PAC" is the acronym that stands for People @ Columbia which is the Human Resources system that integrates and processes all Human Resources, Benefits and Payroll transactions for Columbia University. Employees – Faculty and Staff use PAC to view (and edit some) personal data, view compensation data, and submit time and absence data (once your department is enrolled). Managers – Department managers view job and personal data for employees in their departments via MSS, generate reports, submit and approve transactions (per security role and access granted). Reporting managers can view Talent Summaries for their direct reports and approve timesheets and absences (once your department begins using PAC for Time and Absence). Initiators/Approvers/Central Administration – PAC Transactors, the Human Resources Processing Center (HRPC), HR Client Managers and Payroll perform various human resource actions related to hiring, pay processing, position and other data changes and processes including hire/rehire, additional compensation, and labor accounting transactions. To access PAC, log in to myColumbia, enter your UNI and password and then confirm your access with multi-factor authentication (DUO). For Managers and Transactors, PAC is accessed through the HR Manager Resources tab on myColumbia, then click "Go to PAC". Expand all Collapse all Resources Training Log in to ELM with your UNI and password and browse for HR System Training courses to view all available training. Click the blue "Enroll" or "Launch" button of a course to begin. There are courses for employees as well as the required training for Transactors. If you submitted a PAC Security Application for transactor access, the required courses will be assigned to your learning plan and you will receive system-generated emails with the login link to the training courses. Practice Using PAC You can practice using PAC in a Training Environment: Go to the training site Log in with your UNI and password This is a training environment and nothing entered into this version of PAC will be available in the Production site. Virtual Learning Sessions Virtual Learning Sessions for PAC Transactors and Managers will be held periodically. These sessions provide users who transact in the system the opportunity to ask questions about using PAC and overall HR processes. Note: Please ensure you have completed all the required training before attending a virtual session as these sessions are not full trainings, but rather an opportunity for you to ask questions. Session dates and times with sign-up information will be posted as they become available. Support There is always someone to help if you encounter a problem or have a question regarding PAC. Training Videos/Job Aids – provides guidance on how to perform necessary functions in PAC. Other Users – your colleagues may be able to answer many of your questions. Client Manager – your HR Client Manager can assist with University HR policies and procedures. HR Service Center – for information and assistance on system issues. HR-related inquiries or services, Submit an Inquiry or contact the HR Service Center at 212-851-2888. Expand all Collapse all PAC Access and Availability Request Access Faculty and Staff (except Zero Salary employees) receive access to Employee Self-Service in PAC without having to submit an application. To submit a new access request or to update or replace your existing access, other than Employee Self-Service, complete the PAC Security Application located in Service Now. If you have any questions regarding which roles you should be requesting, please speak with your manager. Certain transactor roles require completion of training courses and satisfactorily passing associated knowledge assessments before receiving access to PAC. Access the PAC Roles to Training Courses Guide for an overview of the required training per PAC role as well as recommended training courses. To delete access: Access is automatically deleted upon termination or transfer to another department. In addition, if a user is not changing positions, but needs to remove PAC access (or only certain PAC access), please submit an incident to ServiceNow and include the users UNI and the specific roles/departments to be removed. Once you have been approved for access and completed any required training, you will receive an email from PAC Security. Please contact the HR Service Center if you have any questions regarding your access. PAC Security Guidelines 90-Day Password Expiration: Columbia University requires that all users of the PeopleSoft application change their password every 90 days. This is a precaution to help protect the sensitive personal and payroll data of all faculty and staff. Changing your Password: To change your password, Visit Manage My UNI. Restriction from Accessing Your Own Job Record: You are not allowed to view your own job information in Manager Self-Service; your supervisor must generate any PAFs that are required for your position. Department Changes: If you transfer departments, your PAC access is automatically removed. This includes transfers between levels 6, 7, and 8 departments within the same home department (e.g., your position is moved from one level 8 department to another within the same division). To reinstate your access, please complete a new security application and request all required roles and departments once the transfer has been completed in PAC. PAC Hours of Availability The PAC application is available daily except for the time listed below: Thursday: 5 p.m. – 7 p.m. In addition, there may be system downtime periodically throughout the year to accommodate required system maintenance. This will be announced to users in advance through a notice on the MyColumbia portal. HR Manager Toolkit HR Systems Training PAC Training Related Documents PAC Recertification Handbook PAC Security Application – Manager Approval Process PAC Security Application – DAF Administrator Approval Process How to Access HR Manager Pages in PAC Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close