Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Human Resource Management Empowering a Community of Excellence Search form Search Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Menu Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs HRM CMS Documentation Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Search Search form Search Home April 2022 HRM Newsletter April 2022 HRM Newsletter April, 2022 Inside this Edition Verification of Employment Employee of the Month Nominations Hiring a Highly Paid Student Hourly Goal Alignment with Jayhawks Rising Goal Setting and Feedback Harassment Training Module – April 15 deadline Search Training Sessions FMLA 101: Who is eligible and what are supervisor responsibilities? Parental Paid Leave Expanded Mental Health First Aid (Virtual) Vacation Accrual Reminder Benefits Updates Liberation Conversation with Alok V. Menon – April 19 International Jayhawk Festival – April 19 Employee Recognition Ceremony- May 10 HR Calendar Healthquest Rewards Program Verification of Employment Buying a house or a car? The University of Kansas uses The Work Number® (TALX Corporation) to provide automated employment and income verifications for our employees. The Work Number is an automated service that provides you with the ability to quickly provide proof of your employment or income. You benefit from having control of the process, since you authorize access to your salary information. The Work Number provides verification services for over 50 million employees. It is widely and easily used by mortgage lenders, banks, apartment complexes and other verifiers who may need proof of employment or income. The Work Number should be used when you need employment or salary verification when buying or renting a home, purchasing, or leasing a car or applying for any type of loan or credit. Please contact Human Resource Management at hrdept@ku.edu, call 785-864-4946 or visit the Employment and Salary Verification webpage for more information. Employee of the Month Nominations Thank you to all who took the time to nominate individuals for Employees of the Month, and we encourage others to follow their example and nominate an exceptional staff member by completing the Employee of the Month Nomination Form. Winners receive a $750 award, a surprise visit from a member of the Provost’s Office, and they become a candidate for the 2023 Employee of the Year Award. Nominations need not come from an individual’s supervisor; anyone can nominate staff whom they feel go out-of-their way to help others or exceed the normal requirements of their jobs. This program is open to all regular staff with half-time or greater appointment, with a year of service at the time of nomination. Employees of most affiliated corporations are also eligible for this program. January – March 2022 Winners: Jama Salber Amanda Frank Oluwakemi Obadare Susan McGee Nolan Haire Megan Nemec Hiring a Highly Paid Student Hourly Some units have student hourly positions that require a higher rate of hourly compensation. With inflation and the current market, HRM will not require any formalized request form or justification under $20.00 per hour. If the position you are recruiting for requires a rate of $20/hr or higher, submit an email with an outlined justification to hrdept@ku.edu for review and approval prior to extending a verbal offer. As a reminder, the University of Kansas has a minimum hourly rate of $7.65 for all student hourly appointments. Goal Alignment with Jayhawks Rising As a reminder, the staff performance review period will now follow the fiscal year (July 1 – June 30) rather than the calendar year. The goals added for staff to the FY2023 Goal Plan will cover 18 months (January 1, 2022-June 30, 2023), rather than just the fiscal year, due to the timing of the transition. More details can be found on the HRM website. While both staff and supervisors of staff can establish goals within the system, ultimately setting goals and expectations is the responsibility of the supervisor. Starting with this new FY2023 Goal Plan, and subject to your leadership, Unclassified Professional Staff (UPS) and University Support Staff (USS) have the option to align their goals with the 13 objectives that make up the foundation of KU’s institutional strategic plan. The Jayhawks Rising Strategic Plan is organized around three institutional priorities and 13 objectives. Goal Setting and Feedback If not already done, supervisors should meet one-on-one with the staff they supervise to identify their goals and expectations for the new evaluation period. Annual goal setting ensures that staff know what is expected in their positions and clearly communicates priorities for work and the unit overall. If you goals and expectations have been established, this message can serve as a reminder for supervisors to check in with staff on progress and to provide feedback on their performance toward the responsibilities of their position and the expectations that have been identified. Human Resource Management has developed a video on Best Practices in Goal Setting and a presentation on Best Practices in Providing Feedback. We encourage staff and supervisors of staff to view these resources and. Goals are to be documented in writing on the staff member’s goal plan in MyTalent. It is also recommended that feedback be documented on the staff member’s goal plan as well. Follow these step-by-step instructions to establish goals in MyTalent and to document feedback. All available job aids and tutorial videos are on the Human Resource Management website. Harassment Training Module – April 15 deadline All University of Kansas faculty, staff and select affiliate staff must complete the Building Supportive Communities: Harassment Prevention 2022 learning module before Friday, April 15. The module takes approximately 40-45 minutes to complete. It will appear in your “To Do” tile after you log into the MyTalent system and will remain until you complete the module. You must go through the entire module. Simply logging in or partially completing the module will not register as “complete.” If you feel you cannot complete this learning module due to a past trauma or other reason, please contact the Office of Civil Rights & Title IX at 785-864-6414 or civilrights@ku.edu. If you experience technical issues, please contact Human Resource Management at hrdept@ku.edu. Search Training Sessions If you are planning to search for a student or staff member in the coming months, refresh your skills by attending HRM’s in-person or virtual training sessions. You can register by visiting the links below. If you are struggling to find a time that works in your calendar, email employ@ku.edu to make an alternate training request. Friday, April 15 | 2 to 4 pm | Zoom Tuesday, May 17 | 10 am to noon | Zoom FMLA 101: Who is eligible and what are supervisor responsibilities? The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) entitles an eligible employee to take job-protected leave due to the birth or placement of a child, care for a family member with a serious health condition or due to an employee’s own serious health condition (as defined by the FMLA). The protections provided by the FMLA include: The University will pay its portion of the employee’s health care benefits throughout the FMLA approved absences under the same conditions as if you continued to work. The employee will be reinstated to the same or an equivalent job with the same pay, benefits, terms and conditions of employment upon return from leave within the 12 weeks eligible under the FMLA. Any absences designated as FMLA qualifying cannot be considered as attendance issues for disciplinary action purposes. The FMLA, on its own is an unpaid leave, but is to be used concurrently with accrued sick or vacation time. Supervisors, if you are ever made aware that an employee you supervise has taken at least three consecutive absences due to their own illness or a family member’s, or has taken intermittent absences attributed to what could be a serious health condition, you have an obligation to alert Human Resources, so preliminary communication about FMLA can be shared with the employee. KU’s Human Resource Management will determine an employee’s eligibility based on the requirements set forth in the law. More specifics here, along with FMLA-related FAQs and video explanation. As always, inquire with hrdept@ku.edu Parental paid leave expanded The university’s Parental Leave policy provides paid leave to eligible employees due to the birth or placement of a child. The Parental Leave policy requires an employee have at least one year of qualifying service in order to receive paid leave. Considering that employees with less than one year of service may not have sufficient leave accrued to take paid leave due to the birth or placement of a child, the Shared Leave Policy was recently edited to include an exception. Specifically, “An employee who has worked for the University for a minimum of six months but not yet long enough to qualify under the Parental Leave policy, may be granted Shared Leave for the birth, adoption, or placement of a child.” For information about paid parental leave options, please visit the Human Resource Management website or contact hrdept@ku.edu or 785-864-4946. Mental Health First Aid (Virtual) Offered through a partnership between Human Resource Management--Learning & Development and Bert Nash Community Mental Health Center. Virtual Mental Health First Aid is a course designed to teach everyone how to recognize the signs and symptoms of a mental health or substance use disorder or crisis as well as the skills to be helpful and supportive to someone that is struggling. Participants are taught how to apply the 5-step Mental Health First Aid Action Plan in a wide variety of situations, from helping someone through a panic attack or to working with someone who may be suicidal. After signing up for this class, you will receive email linking you to a 2-hour pre-work session to accomplish on your own prior to the live Zoom class at the date and time you have selected. There is a $30.00 materials fee for this course. Contact hrdept@ku.edu with questions. Tuesday, April 19 | 12 – 5 p.m. | Zoom Monday, June 20 | 12 – 5 p.m. | Zoom Vacation Accrual Reminder Many eligible employees will not accrue vacation leave beginning with 23rd payroll period 4/17/22-4/30/22 (check date 5/13/22) as they have accrued the maximum 176 hours for the current fiscal year 2022. An eligible employee may earn up to 176 hours each fiscal year and may have a maximum balance of 304 hours at the end of each pay period. Once the fiscal year maximum accrual of 176 hours has been reached, the employee will not accrue again until the completion of the first payroll period of following fiscal year. (8 hours X 22 payroll periods = 176 hours) If an employee is at or near the 304-hour maximum vacation balance at the end of any pay period, they will not earn full accruals for that pay period. If an employee continues to accrue vacation after the 22nd payroll period, this means they have not accrued the full 176 hours. The employee would continue accruing the last four pay periods of the fiscal year until they reach 176 hours or until the end of the fiscal year, whichever comes first. Vacation accruals will restart on the first fiscal year 2023 payroll period which is 6/12/22-6/25/22 (check date 7/8/22). There are usually 26 payroll periods in a fiscal year. The Payroll Office Fiscal Year pay period calendars are located at: payroll.ku.edu. Human Resource Management vacation page hyperlink. Sick leave does not have an accrual maximum or balance limit. Benefits Reminders The 2022 KU Pre-Retirement and Financial Planning webinars are now available on-demand via the KU Human Resources webpage linked below. 2022 KU Pre-Retirement & Financial Planning On-Demand Webinars There’s still time to schedule your on-campus Biometric Screening at KU Memorial Union! 2022 KU Biometric Screening Dates Liberation Conversation with Alok V. Menon – April 19 Join us, on April 19th for an evening of readings and conversation with writer, artist, and performer, Alok Vaid-Menon (they/them) as we explore what it means for us to truly live in our joy and liberation. They will be reading excerpts from their book, Beyond the Gender Binary followed by a Q&A with the audience. First 25 students to arrive will receive a copy of their book Beyond the Gender Binary. Masks are strongly encouraged and recommended for this event. Alok is a a Queer writer, artist, and performer whose work explores themes of trauma, belonging, and the human condition. They are the author of several works including Femme in Public, Your Wound/My Garden, Beyond the Gender Binary, and creator of #DeGenderFashion: a movement to de-gender fashion and beauty industries. Sponsored by: Office of Multicultural Affairs, Department of Women, Gender & Sexuality Studies, Spencer Museum of Art, Academic Success, Student Union Activities, and Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging. DEIB is committed to providing access to all of our events. Please contact MytriceAllen@ku.edu to request accommodations. Two weeks’ notice is preferred. We hope to see you at any or all of these events. International Jayhawk Festival – April 19 from 3 – 6pm Event Details > The Sixth Annual International Jayhawk Festival will be held on Tuesday, April 19 from 3 to 6 p.m. in the Burge Union. The event is an opportunity for all Jayhawks to celebrate our global community and international engagement. The event will include free t-shirts, food, performances, activities and a study abroad fair. All are welcome. Employee Recognition Ceremony- May 10 Mark your calendar for the annual Employee Recognition Ceremony, to be held May 10th at 1:30 PM at the Kansas Union Ballroom! Awards and acknowledgments presented at the ceremony, include: Recognition of all Employees of the Month winners from the past year Employees of the Year The University of Kansas Service Award Team Awards More information, including the list of service award honorees, to come. If you have questions about the event, please contact HRM by email at hrdept@ku.edu or by phone at 785-864-4946. Need Help? Ask Us! Submit an Inquiry Quick Links Apply For A Job Benefits Health Insurance Hiring Process Holidays HR/Pay Login New Employee Packet Search Committee Login Tuition Assistance Vacation Leave Search for HRM Policies Search for Policies and Forms Visit the Policy Office for more information. HRM Calendars HR Pay Donate to Staff Emergency Assistance Fund KU Today 2022 Plan Rates & Comparison Chart Contact Human Resource Management hrdept@ku.edu 785-864-4946 Department of Human Resource Management University of Kansas Carruth O'Leary Hall, Room 103 1246 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045-7521 HR Intranet Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login