Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Employee Leave Employee Leave The following is an overview of the types of leaves employees may use for themselves. Expand all Collapse all Leaves of Absences for Employees Medical Leave (Non-Occupational) A leave of absence, not work-related, due to an employee’s own health condition is considered a non-occupational medical leave. Reasons to take this type of leave include an absence of more than one work week due to accident, injury, illness or a pregnancy-related disability. This leave may be taken for a set period of time (e.g., six weeks), as a reduced schedule (e.g., only working 28 hours per week) or intermittently (sporadic absences). Learn more Pregnancy-Related Leave A leave of absence due to pregnancy is considered a non-occupational medical leave of absence and should follow the same policy and procedures for a non-occupational medical leave. This leave may be taken for a set period of time (e.g., six weeks), as a reduced schedule (e.g., only working 28 hours per week) or intermittently (sporadic absences). Learn more Occupational (Work-Related) An occupational leave, also known as Workers’ Compensation, is leave of absence is a medical leave of absence due to workplace incident, accident or occupational illness (job-related). This leave may be taken for a set period of time (e.g. six weeks), as a reduced schedule (e.g. only working 28 hours per week) or intermittently (sporadic absences). Learn more Personal A personal leave is an unpaid leave of absence for personal reasons and is generally used in situations not covered by other types of University or federal/state/local laws or additional time provided beyond federal/state/local laws. Typical reasons for granting personal leave include: illness in the family, education or other compelling personal need. Learn more Long-Term Disability A long-term disability (LTD) leave of absence is available for Officers following a medical leave of six months or longer and requires an application process through the University’s LTD insurance provider. Learn more Military/Uniformed Service A military/uniformed service leave of absence is for employees who need time off for military service. Learn more Important Notice The Leaves of Absence section is intended only to provide information and guidance to departments for processing leaves for Columbia University Officers, staff and union employees. The writers of the content have exercised their best efforts to ensure accuracy of the information, but accuracy is not guaranteed. If there are any discrepancies between the information on the website, verbal representations and the Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBAs) or applicable University policies, the CBAs and applicable policies will always govern. The information is subject to change from time to time. The information contained on the website is intended to provide examples and does not replace the CBAs or University policies. HR Manager Toolkit Managing Leaves of Absence Employee Leave Medical Occupational Personal Long-Term Disability Military/Uniformed Service Family Leave Faculty (Non-Academic) Leave Processing Leaves FAQs Leaves Policies Leave Management Office 615 West 131st Street, MC 8703 Studebaker 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 Telephone: 212-851-0698 Fax: 212-851-7069 Email: [email protected] Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close