Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Health & Welfare Dependent Eligibility Dependent Eligibility For most University benefits, including Medical, Prescription, Vision, and Dental, dependents—your spouse or same-sex domestic partner, and eligible children—can be covered if you verify they meet certain requirements. Both Spouses Work at Columbia If you and your spouse both work for the University and are eligible for coverage, choose coverage in one of the following ways: One spouse makes the choice for the entire family, including eligible dependent children, if any. In this case, the other spouse selects “No Coverage”; or Each spouse enrolls separately and one spouse covers eligible dependent children. Expand all Collapse all Requirements to Cover Your Dependents Who is eligible? Legal spouse Legal marriage Same-sex domestic partner, provided your partner is: At least 18 years old; Not related to you by blood; Not legally married to another person; Of the same gender; Each other's sole domestic partner and intend to remain so indefinitely; Not domestic partner of someone else; Shares the same principal residence with you full-time and has done so continuously for the past 24 months; Shares financial responsibilities with you, such as co-ownership of property and joint financial accounts; Has power of attorney. Legally dependent children, including: Biological or adopted children Stepchildren Foster children Children for whom you have a court-appointed legal guardianship Dependent children are covered: Until the end of the month in which they turn age 26; For EmblemHealth Dental coverage, until the end of the calendar year in which they turn age 19* At any age if they have a physical or mental disability, provided that when they were diagnosed, they were covered dependents and it was prior to the end of the month in which they turned 26; If you're a newly eligible employee and your disabled child is older than age 26 when you are electing coverage, you may apply to cover your child when your coverage begins; If you're an eligible employee when your child meets this definition, you must apply for continued coverage before the end of the month in which he or she turns age 26. If a court has appointed you as the legal guardian for any child from birth to age 26. Please note that eligible children are defined differently for Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs), Health Savings Account (HSA), Tuition Benefits programs and Dependent Life Insurance. *Applies to Non-Union Support Staff and members of 2110, TWU and SSA. Who can I cover for Medical (including Prescription and Vision) and Dental? You do not have to cover the same eligible dependents for the medical and dental plans. For each plan, you have the choice of covering: Yourself only; Yourself and your spouse or eligible same-sex domestic partner; Yourself and a child or children; or Family: you, your spouse or eligible same-sex domestic partner, plus children. How do I make changes to dependent eligibility? To make a change to dependent eligibility, log in to CUBES with your UNI and password, choose "Change in Family Status?" and follow the prompts. When your dependent is no longer eligible, it is your responsibility to report this change to the Columbia Benefits Service Center within 31 days of the change. How do I verify dependent eligibility? The University is required to ensure only eligible expenses are paid from its plans. This requirement is consistent with IRS regulations that govern the operation of a qualified benefits plan. Verifying Dependent Eligibility If you are adding a dependent spouse, same-sex domestic partner, or child(ren) to your coverage, you are required to provide documentation before the dependent’s coverage is effective. If you are not able to provide proof your dependent is eligible for coverage, your dependent’s coverage will not be activated. To add your dependent at the time you enroll in your own benefits, or due to a Qualified Life Status Change, log in to CUBES with your UNI and password, and follow the prompts. After you’ve completed enrollment, an alert will appear on your record. Click “Alerts” to go to the Dependent Verification page to upload your documentation. If you have questions or cannot scan documents, contact the Columbia Benefits Service Center: 212-851-7000. Remember: You must enroll for benefits within 31 days of your date of hire or eligibility. Important: For security reasons, please remove all Social Security Numbers from paperwork—you should enter Social Security Numbers directly into CUBES when first adding your dependents. Types of Documentation Dependent Spouse Documentation* Civil/legal marriage certificate Dependent Same-Sex Domestic Partner Documentation* Any two of the following: Joint lease or mortgage Joint ownership of property Joint bank account statement Designation of the partner as primary beneficiary in your will, or designation of the partner as beneficiary for your life insurance or retirement benefits Assignment of power of attorney to your partner Dependent Child Documentation* One of the following: Child's birth certificate Adoption certificate/court order *If your document is in a foreign language, please submit a copy of the original document as well as a notarized English translation. The document must be translated by someone other than yourself or your family member. Social Security Numbers for Dependents Under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), the IRS requires all employers to collect the Social Security Number (SSN) for all employees and their dependents covered by benefits plans. SSNs are required to add a dependent to your coverage. If you have dependents who do not have SSNs, please call the Columbia Benefits Service Center: 212-851-7000. Health & Welfare Benefits Officers Postdoc Fellows NUSS Local 2110 SSA TWU Unions Benefits Tools CUBES Making Changes to Your Benefits Vendor Contacts FAQs - Benefits Glossary What Is My Employment Group? Benefits Policies Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close