Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits According to the World Health Organization, "Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity." Mental health encompasses our emotional, behavioral and psychological well-being—how we feel, act and think. It determines how we handle stress, make choices and contribute to our family and community. The stigma of mental health conditions, also called mental illness, has reduced but is still prevalent. False beliefs about mental health can cause challenges, preventing some people from seeking help. Most people who live with mental illness have, at some point, been blamed—or blame themselves—for their condition. Mental health conditions are no one's fault. And, people can usually be successfully treated. Expand all Collapse all Take Care of Your Mental Health Signs Mental Health May Need Attention There are many stressors that can affect mental and emotional well-being, and manifest to conditions that can affect thinking, mood and behavior. Experiencing one or more of the following feelings or behaviors may be reason to seek professional support: Having low or no energy, or unexplained aches and pains Smoking, drinking, using drugs or eating more than usual Pulling away from people and usual activities Experiencing severe mood swings Thinking of harming yourself or others Inability to perform daily tasks like taking care of your kids or getting to work or school Achieve Better Health Your health is as much about your mental and emotional well-being as it is about your heart and your bones. Social connections, laughter, pets, spirituality and managing your work/life can boost mental health and general wellness. Your benefits include counseling and substance abuse recovery services, and can help you effectively deal with a range of situations, such as: Anxiety and depression Coping with grief and loss Domestic violence Eating disorders Relationship problems If you have concerns about your mental health or the mental health of your loved one, it may be helpful to talk to someone, such as your physician. It can be scary to reach out, but it’s often the first step to healing and recovery. Benefits & Resources for You A wealth of free services and resources are available through the University to support you. Mental and behavioral health services are also covered by your medical plan. Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Access counseling, life coaching and more through our EAP (via Humana), a free, confidential service available to employees and their household members. Free, confidential 24/7 short-term counseling (by phone)through Columbia’s Employee Assistance Program: 888-673-1153. LifeCoach, a free, personalized coaching experience available to you by phone. To get started, call 855-290-2655. Apps available at discounted rates through the EAP (and also from the App Store or Google Play): Talkspace: Confidential and secure mental health support. Users can send text, video and audio messages to dedicated therapists from anywhere, at any time. Stop, Breathe & Think: Meditation and mindfulness programming to tackle life’s ups and downs. Five-Minute Journal: Simple, directed journaling exercises to help users focus on the good in their lives. Office of Work/Life The Office of Work/Life can help you manage your work and family life through the following services and programs: Back-up child and adult/elder care Breastfeeding support Housing and relocation Wellness and mental/emotional well-being Go to worklife.columbia.edu to learn more. University policies to support your overall well-being Explore workplace flexibility Take vacation and time off Other resources Mental Health America: Dedicated to helping all Americans achieve wellness by living mentally healthier lives. MentalHealth.gov: Learn about the causes, symptoms and how to cope with mental health, and how to get you or your loved one help. Benefits & Resources for Your Family A wealth of free services and resources are available through the University to support you. Mental and behavioral health services are also covered by your medical plan. To find an in-network provider nearby, go to columbia.welcometouhc.com/find-a-doctor. This page includes the list of Columbia Doctors who provide in-network services to University employees. ColumbiaDoctors Midtown, Department of Psychiatry Beginning June 1, employees may utilize the Columbia Day Programas an in-network benefit. This intensive group-therapy program—designed for people suffering from a variety of conditions, such as anxiety, depression, eating disorders and substance abuse—can assist with identifying symptoms and patterns of behavior, and decrease those symptoms using cognitive and behavioral skills. Contact ColumbiaDoctors at 212-326-8441 for more information. UHC Live and Work Well This site provides confidential help and resources when coping with personal challenges--such as divorce, obesity and health issues, and how to cope with anxiety, stress and depression. You can also access online resources to help reach your health goals, such as eating right or reducing stress and even get guidance from a coach via phone, secure email or live chat. Log in to myuhc.com and click “Coverage & Benefits.” Then, select “Mental Health” and “Mental Health and Substance Abuse benefit highlights” to learn more. Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close