Humanities Council Logo About Mission Priorities Participating Members Annual Brochure Location Programs View All Academic Programs Professorships and Fellowships Public Lectures Annual Humanities Colloquium Working Groups Global Initiatives Being Human at Princeton Faculty Bookshelf Funding View All Magic Grants for Innovation Team Teaching Grants Visiting Fellowships Professorships Working Groups Collaborative Humanities Faculty Outreach Grants Co-Sponsorships Events View All Gauss Seminars in Criticism Belknap Visitors Eberhard L. Faber IV Memorial Lectures Events Archive People News Menu About Mission Priorities Participating Members Annual Brochure Location Programs View All Academic Programs Professorships and Fellowships Public Lectures Annual Humanities Colloquium Working Groups Global Initiatives Being Human at Princeton Faculty Bookshelf Funding View All Magic Grants for Innovation Team Teaching Grants Visiting Fellowships Professorships Working Groups Collaborative Humanities Faculty Outreach Grants Co-Sponsorships Events Gauss Seminars in Criticism Belknap Visitors Eberhard L. Faber IV Memorial Lectures Events Archive People News Contact Sign up for the Humanities Council newsletter Sign Up Programs & Initiatives Certificate Programs Professors and Fellows Gauss Seminars in Criticism Belknap Visitors Lectures and Colloquia Reading and Discussion Groups Global Initiatives Being Human Funding Opportunities Magic Grants for Innovation Team Teaching Grants Visiting Faculty Research Professorships Working Groups Collaborative Humanities Faculty Outreach Grants Co-Sponsorships Humanities Council Mission Overview Participating Members Administration Annual Report Location We seek to foster creative scholarship, transformative teaching, and intellectual collaboration by bringing humanities departments and programs into dialogue with arts and sciences. People in the Humanities Council Administration Executive Committee Directors and Chairs Visiting Faculty and Lecturers Postdoctoral Fellows Affiliated Faculty All People The Council Chair and Executive Director lead an administrative team that is responsible for day-to-day operations and activities. Featured Story Council Announces 2022-23 Long-Term and Short-Term Visitors The Humanities Council is pleased to welcome eight Long-Term and four Short-Term Visiting Fellows to the University for the academic year 2022-23. Visiting fellows are distinguished writers, artists, and scholars from around the world, nominated by chairs of humanities departments with support from directors of interdisciplinary programs in the humanities. Long-Term Fellows will spend the […] All News Upcoming Events Thu, 9/8 · 4:30 pm—6:00 pm 16th Annual Humanities Colloquium Humanities Council Tue, 10/25 · 5:00 pm—7:00 pm Gauss Seminars in Criticism: Hortense Spillers Humanities Council April 4, 2023 · 5:00 pm—7:00 pm Gauss Seminars in Criticism: Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak Humanities Council All Events Participating Members A lively hub for innovation and collaboration, the Humanities Council connects 16 humanities departments and more than 30 interdisciplinary member programs, centers, and committees across the campus. Membership is open to the chairs and directors of all humanities departments, programs, and committees. Interdisciplinary Doctoral Program in the Humanities A joint Ph.D. program with team-taught courses, workshops and interdisciplinary reading groups. Society of Fellows in the Liberal Arts Postdoctoral fellows who spend three years on campus teaching and pursuing research. Ferris Seminars in Journalism Seminars in traditional and emerging media taught by the world’s most distinguished journalists. Humanistic Studies Offers the team-taught Humanities Sequences and Certificate Program in Humanistic Studies. Sign Up For The Humanities Council Newsletter Occasional news and announcements delivered to your inbox. Sign Up Leadership Esther Schor Chair Kathleen Crown Executive Director All People Joseph Henry House Map Princeton University Princeton, New Jersey 08544 Contact Tel (609) 258–4717 Email humanities@princeton.edu © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Scroll Up