Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Retirement & Financial Planning Student Workers - Voluntary Retirement Savings Program (VRSP) Student Workers - Voluntary Retirement Savings Program (VRSP) The VRSP is a 403(b) retirement plan that lets you contribute from 1% to 80% of your eligible pay, on a pre-tax (deducted along with any other taxes) and/or Roth after-tax (deducted from take-home pay) basis, up to the annual IRS limit. Eligibility begins on date of hire. You are always 100% entitled to the value of your own contributions. The IRS sets a maximum contribution limit each year, which applies to combined contributions, pre-tax and Roth: The 2022 maximum contribution is $20,500 (plus $6,500 if you are age 50 and over, for a total of $27,000). The 2021 maximum contribution is $19,500 (plus $6,500 if you are age 50 and over, for a total of $26,000). The Social Security wage base will increase for 2022 from $142,800 to $147,000. You have a wide range of funds to choose from for investing your savings, available through TIAA and/or Vanguard. Make Sure You Are Signed Up Not sure if you are participating in the VRSP? The simplest way to check is to look at your payroll statement. To enroll in the VRSP, log in to CUBES; select "Retirement" and follow the prompts. Expand all Collapse all Your contributions Pre-tax Contributions Pre-tax contributions to the VRSP are deducted from your paycheck with taxes withheld. Making pre-tax contributions allows you to defer paying taxes until you make a withdrawal from your retirement account. Roth Contributions A Roth contribution is money that you contribute to your VRSP after taxes. Roth contributions are taxable like the rest of your current pay. Because Roth contributions are deposited into a VRSP after taxes were deducted, withdrawals will be tax free, subject to certain rules. Retirement Home Retirement Forms TIAA - Direct Transfer to Vanguard TIAA - Cash Withdrawal TIAA - Moving Funds TIAA - Request For Hardship Withdrawal TIAA Rollover Form – To VRSP TIAA - Special Tax Notice for Plan Payouts Vanguard - Asset Transfer Form Vanguard Rollover Form - to VRSP Vanguard Termination Form - VRSP Vanguard Termination Request Form - Officer Vanguard - Asset Transfer Form Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close