Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Workplace Conduct and Training Compliance Training Compliance Training Columbia University is committed to providing a learning, living and working environment free from unlawful discrimination, and to fostering a nurturing and vibrant environment for students. Compliance training courses for employees reinforce respect for the fundamental dignity and worth of everyone in our community. Expand all Collapse all Anti-Harassment, Discrimination and Title IX Training Overview The online training course Columbia University Anti-Harassment, Discrimination and Title IX Training was developed in accord with Columbia's Employee Policies and Procedures on Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence and Stalking. The course is a requirement of employment for all new Officers of Administration and Support Staff. Policy Go to Columbia's Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action website for EOAA Policies and Procedures on discrimination, harassment, sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking. Note: The training course Doing the Right Thing has been replaced. All new Officers of Administration and Support Staff are required to take the Columbia University Anti-Harassment, Discrimination and Title IX Training course. Anti-Harassment Training FAQs Q: How long is the course? A: The course takes about one hour to complete. You may stop and start as often as you like. The system will record where you left off. You must complete the course within 30 days of course assignment.. Q: How will I know when I need to take the course? A: You will receive an email from [email protected] assigning you to the training. Q: I am a supervisor. Do I take the same course as my staff? A: Yes. There is one course for both supervisors and staff. Q. Does the course have audio? A. Yes. Please use your headphones or speakers to hear the narration. Q. I am visually and/or hearing impaired. Can I access the course? A. Yes. Please use the Chrome/NVDA assistive technology. Q. How do I print a certificate of completion? A. Once you complete the course: Log into Columbia.sabacloud.com Click on "My Learning Plan' Click on the green circle representing your completed courses Next to the course name, click on "Print Certificate" Launch the Training Course Note: To access the Anti-Harassment, Discrimination and Title IX Training course, you must receive an email from Columbia University notifiying you that you are due to take the training. Expand all Collapse all Protection of Minors Training Overview Who should take the course? Officers assigned by their supervisor Other members of the University community who interact with, supervise, chaperone or otherwise oversee minors in programs and activities on campus and/or sponsored by the University. If you suspect child abuse or maltreatment: If a child is in immediate danger, call 911 Call the New York State Child Abuse & Maltreatment Hotline: 1-800-342-3720 (obtain name and ID number of representative) and Call the University's Department of Public Safety: 212-854-5555 (Morningside), 212-853-3333 (Manhattanville), 212-305-7979 (Medical Center). Share name and ID number of representative. Resources The University's Protection of Minors website has resources, news, training materials, legal information and mandated reports. Policy Read the University's policy on reporting suspected abuse and maltreatment of minors. Webcast or Live Training Webcast (30 Minutes) There is a 60-minute, online Protection of Minors training available to all those who work with minors. Email Ursula Bollini [email protected] to make arrangements to participate. Workplace Essentials Workplace Conduct Compliance Training Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close