Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Human Resource Management Empowering a Community of Excellence Search form Search Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Menu Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs HRM CMS Documentation Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Search Search form Search Home Learn & Develop Performance Mgmt. Performance Management Information about KU's performance management processes and procedures, including evaluation forms and templates. What is Performance Management? An ongoing, continuous process of communicating and clarifying job responsibilities, priorities, performance expectations, and development planning that optimize an individual’s performance and aligns with organizational strategic goals. When people hear the words performance management, the annual evaluation may be their first thought. However, an effective performance management process involves much more than just the annual evaluation. Human Resources has established modules to assist in managing employee performance. Human Resources recommends in addition to setting goals at the beginning of the evaluation period and evaluating performance at the end of the evaluation period, that feedback sessions are held throughout the year. These meetings include: Initial Meeting: Goal Setting and Development Planning – During the first meeting, at the beginning of the evaluation period, the employee and supervisor will mutually develop goals that align directly with the goals of the department, school and university. A development plan that supports goal completion will also be developed and agreed upon. Quarterly Feedback Sessions (April, July, October for an annual evaluation period) – During the feedback sessions, the employee and supervisor will discuss the employee’s progress toward goal completion and any support that may be needed. Final Meeting: Annual Review – During the final meeting at the end of the evaluation period, the employee and supervisor will discuss overall performance and goals and development plan outcomes. Staff Evaluations Information about the UPS/USS performance evaluation process, including access to required evaluation forms and information about the annual goals/objectives setting process. NEW! Change in Staff Performance Evaluation Review Period Change in Staff Performance Evaluation Review Period from Calendar Year to Fiscal Year. Starting in Fiscal Year 2023. University Core Competencies University Leadership had identified nine University Core Competencies upon which all employees will be evaluated in the Performance Management System. Goals and Performance Improvement Plans Information about setting goals and creating performance improvement plans. Performance Management System & User Guides Information about the University’s Performance Management System and to access tutorial videos and job aids that cover the processes and functions of the system. The Performance Management System is rolling out in phases; departments within Administration and Finance are piloting the first phase for the 2015 calendar year. Graduate Student & Student Hourly Performance Evaluations Information about the performance evaluation process for graduate student employees (GRA/GTA/GA) and student hourly employees, including evaluation templates. Need Help? Ask Us! Submit an Inquiry Talent Development Login Quick Links Apply For A Job Benefits Health Insurance Hiring Process Holidays HR/Pay Login New Employee Packet Search Committee Login Tuition Assistance Vacation Leave Search for HRM Policies Search for Policies and Forms Visit the Policy Office for more information. HRM Calendars HR Pay Donate to Staff Emergency Assistance Fund KU Today 2022 Plan Rates & Comparison Chart Contact Human Resource Management hrdept@ku.edu 785-864-4946 Department of Human Resource Management University of Kansas Carruth O'Leary Hall, Room 103 1246 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045-7521 HR Intranet Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login