Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Retiree Benefits Current Retiree - Officers Current Retiree - Officers Tuition Benefits Current Retiree - Officers Tuition Benefits As a retired Officer of Columbia University, you and your eligible dependents have access to tuition exemption, primary tuition scholarship and college tuition scholarship benefits. Expand all Collapse all Tuition Programs Tuition Exemption Tuition Exemption for Retired Officers Upon retirement, Officers are eligible to receive tuition exemption to complete a degree program that was started before retirement. The Officer must maintain matriculation in the degree program in order to qualify for the benefit. To retire with this benefit, an Officer must be 55 years or older and have completed 10 years of continuous benefits-eligible service on or after age 45, and must have retired immediately after terminating employment with Columbia. See the Tuition Exemption Policy for eligibility details, how the benefit works and application procedures. Special Eligibility for Retirees: As a retiree of Columbia University, Officers are eligible to apply to audit certain courses at the Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Audit tuition and all fees will be exempted. Applicants are strongly encouraged to submit completed applications online at least one month prior to the start of the term at the School of Professional Studies. The Officer should indicate that they are a Columbia University retiree and scan and attach both sides of their Columbia retiree ID to the application. Only academic-year courses may be audited. Auditing is not allowed for the Summer Term courses. A limited number of courses are available to auditors. To view the courses open to auditors, please go to the Directory of Classes, Columbia’s online course bulletin. Officers can search for auditing courses by clicking “A” in the “Course Listings by Subject” box and scrolling down to where the auditing courses are listed or by clicking “A” in the “Course Listings by Department” box and scrolling down to where the Auditing department is listed. All courses eligible for auditing begin with the word “Auditing.” Officers may contact the Office of Admissions at the School of Professional Studies at 212-854-9666 or email [email protected]. Tuition Exemption for Retired Officers' Spouse or Same-Sex Domestic Partner Upon an Officer’s retirement, the spouse or same-sex domestic partner is eligible to receive tuition exemption only to complete a degree program for which they were eligible, and started before the Officer’s retirement. The spouse or same-sex domestic partner must remain continuously matriculated in the degree program. To retire with this benefit, an Officer must be 55 years or older and must have completed 10 years of continuous benefits-eligible service on or after age 45 and retire immediately after terminating employment with Columbia. Eligibility for graduate tuition depends on the Officer's hire date as a full-time, regular Officer of the University. Tuition Exemption for Retired Officers' Children Upon the Officer’s retirement, children remain eligible for the Tuition Exemption benefit for which they were eligible under the terms in effect (at the time the application is submitted) for active Officers. To retire with this benefit, an Officer must be 55 years or older and must have completed 10 years of continuous benefits-eligible service on or after age 45 and must have retired immediately after terminating employment with Columbia. Eligibility for graduate tuition depends on the Officers hire date as a full-time, regular Officer of the University. To apply for this benefit, see the Retired Officers Hired Pre-1993 Form or Retired Officers Hired Post-1993 Form. Phased Retirement Once an Officer begins phased retirement, he or she will be treated as an active full-time Officer for purposes of the Tuition Exemption benefit, until the retirement date. After retirement, he or she will be treated as described above. College Tuition Scholarship (CTS) The College Tuition Scholarship (CTS) program for retired Officers pays the lesser of 50% of the institution’s undergraduate tuition or 50% of the current year’s Columbia College undergraduate tuition, for up to eight semesters (or equivalent trimesters or quarters). See the CTS Policy for details of eligibility and how the benefit works. Upon the Officer’s retirement, children remain eligible for CTS benefits for which they were eligible under the terms in effect (at the time the application is submitted) for active Officers. To retire with this benefit, an Officer must be 55 years or older and must have completed 10 years of continuous benefits-eligible service after age 45. To apply for this benefit, see College Tuition Scholarship (CTS): Application & Checklist - Eligible Retired Officers. If you are a family member of a deceased eligible Officer, see College Tuition Scholarship (CTS): Application & Checklist - Family of Eligible Deceased Officers. Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS) The Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS) program for retired Officers pays between 10% and 35% of your dependent child’s tuition in grades K-8 at a private school within the five boroughs of New York City, based on qualifying family income, or 50% of your child’s tuition for grades K-8 at The School at Columbia University. Both you and the child must live within the five boroughs of New York City. See the PTS Policy for details of eligibility and how the benefit works. Upon the Officer’s retirement, children remain eligible for PTS benefits for which they were eligible under the terms in effect (at the time the application is submitted) for active Officers. To retire with this benefit, an Officer must be 55 years or older and must have completed 10 years of continuous benefits-eligible service after age 45. To apply for this benefit, see the Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS): Application & Checklist – Eligible Retired Officers. If you are a family member of a deceased eligible Officer, see Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS): Application & Checklist - Family of Eligible Deceased Officers. Contact Benefits Service Center The Benefits Service Center is always available to support you. Please contact the Benefits Service Center with any questions you may have on your tuition program benefits coverage and eligibility for you and your dependents. Hours of Operation: Monday - Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Email: [email protected] Phone: 212-851-7000 Student Financial Services Tuition Exemption Processing and Student Account Information Email: [email protected] Phone: 212-854-4400 EBPA College and Primary Tuition Scholarship application status and processing Hours of Operation: Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Email: [email protected] Phone: 888-456-4576 Retiree Benefits Current Retiree - Officers Medical Premiums Dental Benefits Medical Benefits - Under 65 Medical Benefits - 65 and Over Tuition Programs Retirement Programs Continued Association Employee Assistance Program Resources Retirement Checklist Eligibility Making Changes to Your Benefits Retirement Workshops Understanding Medicare FAQs Retiree Contacts Health Advocate Re-Employment Employee Assistance Program Well-being Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close