Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Workplace Conduct and Training Workplace Conduct and Training Maintaining a safe and healthy workplace, free from discrimination and harassment, ensures all members of our community can contribute to their fullest potential. Columbia conducts required training courses, and offers resources and programs that establish a welcoming environment for everyone who works and studies on our campuses. Expand all Collapse all Resources Compliance Training All employees are required to participate in compliance training courses related to anti-harassment, anti-discrimination, anti-gender bias and sexual harassment prevention. The courses are online and self-directed. Protection of minors training is also required of some employees, dependent on role. Go to Compliance Training Equal Opportunity & Affirmation Action To learn more about non-discrimination, policies, training and accommodations, visit the University’s Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) website. To report an incident, go to the Discrimination, Harassment, Gender-Based Misconduct Referral Form. Equal Opportunity & Affirmation Action Statement As an institution, Columbia University is committed to the principles of equity and excellence. It actively pursues both, adhering to the belief that equity is the partner of excellence. Columbia University's goal is a workforce and student body that reflects the diversity and talent of New York City, the larger metropolitan area, and the nation. In furtherance of this goal, Columbia has implemented policies and programs which seek to ensure that its employment and educational decisions are based on individual merit and not on bias or stereotypes. The University’s Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) has overall responsibility for the management of the University’s Employee Policies and Procedures on Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence and Stalking; coordinates compliance activities under these policies and the applicable federal, state and local laws; and is designated as the University’s Compliance Office for Title IX, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and other equal opportunity, nondiscrimination and affirmative action laws. Columbia University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action -- Disability/Veterans employer. Ombuds Office The Ombuds Office offers a confidential place to discuss workplace issues, academic concerns, issues relating to administrative paperwork and process, explanation and interpretation of policies and procedures, and many other issues or concerns. You can speak freely to us because we promise to keep our discussions confidential, and we are not part of any formal University process. We don’t take sides in disputes and operate independently of the Columbia administration, reporting only to the president. You control the process and decide when, or even whether, to take action. Learn more and contact the Ombuds Office. Grievance Procedures Officers of Administration and Non-Union Support Staff The University provides formal grievance procedures for its employees in the event of suspensions or discharge. Officers of Administration and Non-Union Support Staff must begin the grievance procedure within 30 days after the action (suspension or discharge) that precipitates the complaint. For more information, contact your supervisor or HR Client Services. Phone: 212-851-7008 Email: [email protected] Separate grievance procedures for Officers of Instruction and Research are listed in the Faculty Handbook. Support Staff in Collective Bargaining Agreements Those represented by a collective bargaining agreement must refer to the grievance procedure in that agreement and may may reach out to Columbia's Office of Labor Relations for assistance. Office of Labor Relations 622 W. 132nd Street, mail code 8710 Studebaker, 5th floor Phone: 212-851-4089 Fax: 212-234-1819 Discrimination & Harassment For complaints of discrimination and harassment, please contact Columbia's Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Compliance Office Columbia University is committed to operating with integrity in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies. The University expects the highest standards of ethical conduct from the members of its community and is dedicated to upholding its reputation as one of the top academic and research institutions in the world. Columbia's Office of University Compliance manages conduct relating to: Fraud and financial improprieties Research misconduct Discrimination or harassment Conflict of interest Breaches of confidentiality Inappropriate use of University resources Public Safety Columbia's Department of Public Safety is the place to report a crime or other emergency, find crime statistics and learn crime prevention tips. Emergency Numbers Morningside Campus: 4-5555 (on campus); 212-854-5555 Manhattanville Campus: 3-3333 (on campus); 212-853-3333 Medical Center Campus: 212-305-7979 To contact the New York City Police/Fire Department or Ambulance service, call 911. Environmental Sustainability From energy conservation to award-winning recycling and ReUse programs, Columbia is fully-dedicated to creating a greener, more sustainable planet. Sustainable Columbia, the University’s campus sustainability initiative, covers environmental issues on campus, including efforts to: Clean & Go Green Conserve water Reduce energy and electricity use ReUse and recycle Walk, bike, carpool and car share Workplace Essentials Workplace Conduct Compliance Training Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close