Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Managing Union Staff Managing Union Staff HR Managers should always first consult the Office of Labor and Employee Relations before dealing with grievances and performance issues. Please review this information on managing workplace performance and concerns for union staff, and training resources for managers of union staff. HR Managers must have a clear understanding of Collective Bargaining Agreements pertinent to their department's employees. Expand all Collapse all Workplace Performance & Conduct Manager Training The Learning & Development team provides in-person training workshops, customized programs and online learning resources for managers to help strengthen core professional skills. Go to our Learning & Development pages to view scheduled training, such as Managing Unionized Staff (offered periodically). In addition, you can contact the Office of Labor and Employee Relations for on-site, individualized training for managers. Probationary Period All newly-hired, newly-promoted and newly-transferred union employees are placed on a probationary period. Probationary periods vary in length according to a union group's collective bargaining agreement. Upon an employee's satisfactory completion of the probationary period, he or she is considered a regular employee (unless the job is stated to be temporary). A probationary period may be extended under certain circumstances. The length of a probationary period extension also varies across union groups. Please consult the appropriate collective bargaining agreement. Termination of employment while on probation or extended probationary period must be approved by the head of the department, and must be indicated in writing to the employee. Copies of the letter must be shared with the Office of Labor and Employee Relations and the respective union. Grievance & Discipline Grievance Procedure for Union Support Staff Procedures for handling union support staff concerns and grievances are covered in each collective bargaining agreements. Managers of union staff should be familiar with the content of the applicable union contracts. For additional information and guidance, please contact the Office of Labor and Employee Relations. Discipline Procedure for Union Support Staff All employees are expected to adhere to generally accepted rules of conduct and organizational behavior. Please review the Administrative Code of Conduct and Statement of Ethical Conduct Policy for a statement of these basic principles. If the work performance or conduct of a union support staff member does not meet acceptable standards, please contact the Office of Labor and Employee Relations for guidance. HR Manager Toolkit Labor Relations Managing Union Staff Labor Relations Contacts Union Contacts Collective Bargaining Agreements Unemployment Insurance Guide Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close