Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Welcome Columbia Benefits and Pay Columbia Benefits and Pay Columbia University offers competitive pay and a comprehensive benefits package, including medical and dental plans, tax savings accounts, retirement savings plans, tuition benefits, life insurance and disability coverage—to name just a few. Expand all Collapse all Your Benefits & Pay Benefits Overview We are committed to providing faculty and staff with valuable benefits and resources to help support their health and well-being. The University offers a full range of benefits to help you and your eligible dependents stay healthy, build long-term financial security for retirement, meet your educational goals and much more. Whether you're a new or prospective employee, we encourage you to learn more about the benefits, programs and resources on the Benefits home page. Using CUBES - Benefits Enrollment System CUBES, Columbia University's benefits enrollment system, gives you secure access to personalized information about your benefits. The site is available 24/7 from any computer with Internet access. Important: You must enroll for benefits within 31 days of your date of hire. After your new hire information is processed, you will receive an automated email at your Columbia email address confirming that you may log in to CUBES and enroll in benefits. Go to CUBES and enter your UNI and password. Then, confirm your access using multi-factor authentication (DUO). If you do not know your UNI and password, go to http://uni.columbia.edu. For further assistance with DUO or your UNI and password, please contact the CUIT (Columbia University Information Technology) Service Desk: 212-854-1919 or email [email protected]. Select “Get Started” to begin the election process. Then, select “Choose on My Own” to make your benefits choices Please be sure to “CHECKOUT” to finish the enrollment process and review your Benefits Details page. Carefully review your Benefits Details page before exiting CUBES. If you see a problem or want to make a change, simply go back into the online system and modify your election. You may print this confirmation if you would like a paper copy of your benefits enrollment. Now is also a good time to review your retirement investments. Select “Retirement” on the top navigation to review and/or make changes. Please be sure to “Save and Continue.” Print your confirmation from the Voluntary Retirement Savings Plan Summary page if you would like a paper copy. If you have questions, contact the Columbia Benefits Service Center: 212-851-7000 or [email protected] Pay, Timesheets & Personal Data Check your pay and personal information on myColumbia. Log in with your UNI and password and then confirm your access using multi-factor authentication (DUO). If you do not know your UNI and password, go to http://uni.columbia.edu. For further assistance with DUO or your UNI and password, please contact the CUIT (Columbia University Information Technology) Service Desk: 212-854-1919 or email [email protected]. For more on managing your work time and time off, speak with your manager and review Workplace Essentials for more information. Your Benefits My CU Benefits Transcript MY CU Benefits Columbia University offers a comprehensive benefits package to support your every day needs and life events: health care, retirement savings,tuition, tax savings on commuting and child care, and more. With our upgraded CU Benefits Enrollment System, CUBES, we're making it easier for you to manage your benefits. Visit CUBES today and view the new, more modern design. Use CUBES anytime to report a Qualified Life Status Change such as marriage, the birth or adoption of a child, update Retirement Savings Plan elections, change Transit and Parking elections, print Tuition Program form, and update Life Insurance Beneficiaries. CUBES is also a place to learn about benefits programs and resources, access benefits summaries and vendor contacts, and see your current elections. CUBES is also a place to message the Columbia Benefits Service Center. And when BENEFITS OPEN ENROLLMENT comes this fall, use CUBES to access an enhanced cost estimator tool to help you choose a medical plan. Managing your benefits is getting easier with CUBES. Your benefits is getting easier with CUBES. Learning about your benefits helps you take advantage of them. Be on the lookout for Discover Your Benefits communications. Discover Your Benefits: Get tips on how Columbia benefits can help meet everyday needs like commuting and child care; help you and your family stay healthy; help pay for medical, dental, and vision services; help you save for the future; and much more. Learn more so you can make informed decisions. Do more by using CUBES. Get more from your Columbia Benefits. MY CU Benefits Retirement Programs Retirement Programs Transcript Whether you’re new to the university or looking to enhance your retirement savings, there’s a lot to cheer about, including a host of great benefits like the Columbia University Retirement Savings Programs—an easy way to save for your future. The university offers two retirement plans to help you plan and save: The Columbia University Voluntary Retirement Savings Plan, or VRSP, and the Officers’ Retirement Plan. You are eligible to participate in the VRSP beginning on your date of hire. To start participating, you must be employed by and receive a paycheck from Columbia University. You can contribute from 1% to 80% of your eligible pay on a pre-tax and/or Roth basis, in half percentages up to the IRS annual contribution limit, in addition to catch-up contributions The IRS limit applies to your combined pre-tax and Roth contributions. For new hires, the university will match yourpre-tax and Roth savings combined to a maximum of 3% of eligible pay. For all participants in the VRSP, you are always 100% entitled to the value of your own contributions. If you are a benefits-eligible officer of the university, you will be eligible for the Officers’ Retirement Plan. The university makes all of the core contributions to this plan based on your age and service with the university. The university’s retirement savings programs are designed to supplement retirement income, along with your additional savings, investments and Social Security benefits. Whenever you want, you can change your contribution level, your retirement provider and your investments simply by logging in to the Columbia University Benefits Enrollment System, also called CUBES, or contacting the Columbia Benefits Service Center at (212) 851-7000. You have a wide range of funds to choose from for investing the university’s core and matching contributions through the provider you select, either TIAA or Vanguard. Contributions are invested through your choice of the two companies, each with a variety of investment options. You are always entitled to the full value of the university’s matching (if applicable) and core contributions. Let’s look at each of your choices, starting with TIAA. For over 100 years, TIAA has provided financial services exclusively to not-for-profit institutions. TIAA offers a range of investment products, including fixed and variable annuities that can provide guaranteed lifetime income. As a new hire, TIAA will offer you access to a financial consultant who can work with you over time to plan out your financial future at no extra cost. TIAA financial consultants provide one-on-one counseling on campuses, by phone or online video conference, as well as at local office locations in New York City. Your other option is The Vanguard Group.Vanguard is one of the world’s largest investmentmanagement companies with more than $5.7 trillion in assets under management. Vanguard offers quality investments, dedicated client service and competitive costs. To make an appointment with Vanguard for a review of your personal situation on one of the university’s campuses, visit meetvanguard.com. Both TIAA and Vanguard have dedicated customer service and provide vital tools, guidance and education to help you make important decisions about your financial journey. We hope this video has been helpful in introducing you to your two retirement provider choices. Whether you’re just starting your adventure, or you’re already down the path,taking steps to reach your financial goals is an important part of the journey. Visit the university’s human resources website to learn more about the program and each provider’s offerings. You should consider the investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses carefully before investing. Go to TIAA.org/Columbia for current product and fund prospectusesthat contain this and other information. Please read the prospectuses carefully before investing. Welcome to Columbia University Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards & Email Orientation & New Hire Info Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close