Skip to Main Content Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Visit the Institute A Statement of Solidarity 2020–21 Annual Report All Annual Reports People Director Governing Board Institute Faculty 2021-22 Fellows Seminar Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Collaborative Humanities Fellows Staff Centers/Initiatives Black Visualities Initiative Brown University Humanities Initiative Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Center of Excellence Collaborative Humanities Initiative Economies of Aesthetics Environmental Humanities at Brown Humanities in the World Political Concepts Funding Opportunities Opportunities Calendar Courses/Certificate Fall 2022 Courses Undergraduate Collaborative Humanities Courses Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Collaborative Humanities Seminars All Past Courses Media Blog: The Humanities in Practice Meeting Street Podcast YouTube Channel Connect Search Cogut Institute for the Humanities Visit the Institute Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section Visit the Institute A Statement of Solidarity 2020–21 Annual Report All Annual Reports Visit the Institute The Cogut Institute is located in Pembroke Hall at 172 Meeting Street, between Thayer and Brown Streets, on the Brown University campus. Office Hours Our office is open 8:30 am – 5:00 pm throughout the academic year, and 8:00 am – 4:00 pm during the summer term. If you are planning to visit, please call ahead to assure that someone will be available to assist you. Accessibility Pembroke Hall can be accessed via a ramp on the side of the building facing the Pembroke Campus. See Brown University's Accessibility Map. By Car From the east: Follow I-195 West, exit at South Main Street (exit 2), and proceed to the traffic light at College Street (large courthouse at corner), where you will turn right. When College Street ends at Prospect Street, you will be facing the Brown campus. Turn left on Prospect. Follow Prospect until it crosses Bowen Street. Turn right on Bowen and proceed to the intersection with Thayer. Turn right on Thayer and go two blocks until you reach Meeting Street. Turn right onto Meeting Street and proceed up the block. Pembroke Hall is the red brick building with the tall chimneys on your right. From the west, north and south: Follow I-95 to I-195 East, exit at Downtown Providence (exit 1), and follow exit ramp along river. At second light (College Street), turn right. Proceed through the next light (South Main Street) and up hill as above. From the northwest: Route 146 leads to I-95 and then to I-195. Then follow above North-South directions. By Bus, Train, and Plane Kennedy Plaza, the local bus service hub, and Union Station, home to trains from Amtrak and the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA), are both downtown, just a short walk or taxi ride from campus. T.F. Green Airport is 10 miles south, in Warwick, RI. Parking on Campus Visitor parking is available on campus. Parking meters are rigorously enforced. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Visit the Institute A Statement of Solidarity 2020–21 Annual Report All Annual Reports People Director Governing Board Institute Faculty 2021-22 Fellows Seminar Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Collaborative Humanities Fellows Staff Centers/Initiatives Black Visualities Initiative Brown University Humanities Initiative Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Center of Excellence Collaborative Humanities Initiative Economies of Aesthetics Environmental Humanities at Brown Humanities in the World Political Concepts Funding Opportunities Opportunities Calendar Courses/Certificate Fall 2022 Courses Undergraduate Collaborative Humanities Courses Doctoral Certificate in Collaborative Humanities Collaborative Humanities Seminars All Past Courses Media Blog: The Humanities in Practice Meeting Street Podcast YouTube Channel Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Visit the Institute Open details for Visit the Institute Bookmark this Page