Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Events RESPECT: Find Out What It Means to Your Workplace (a seminar for managers) Events Past Event RESPECT: Find Out What It Means to Your Workplace (a seminar for managers) Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 19, 2019 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM Studebaker building, 622 W. 132 St., New York, NY 10027 - Conference Room 367 If you’re a manager and you're interested in learning how to promote respect and incorporate it into everyday worklife, join us for R-E-S-P-E-C-T: Find Out What It Means to Your Workplace. After participating in this seminar, you will be better able to: Understand the importance of demonstrating respect for employees and colleagues Utilize communication skills that demonstrate respect for others Give performance feedback to employees whose behaviors do not show respect for others To RSVP to the seminar, please email Andrew Jacobson at: [email protected] Can’t attend in person? Try these... 3 tips for demonstrating respect in the workplace: Create a culture of support People who respect each other help each other Listen to each other Communication is the core of workplace relationships too Use people's ideas to change or improve Visit Columbia's Well-being website to learn about the EAP and other resources. And check out Humana's Columbia-specific website for more. If prompted, log in (Username: Columbia; Password: eap). Coming up later this month: The Rest Of Your Life, a seminar about sleep, for all employees. Invite to follow. Is there a topic you’d like to see in a future EAP seminar or communication? We'd love to hear it. Email Andrew Jacobson at: [email protected]; subject line: Topic Ideas. Upcoming Events Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close