Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Tuition Programs TWU - Tuition Exemption TWU - Tuition Exemption The Tuition Exemption Benefit Program pays tuition costs, depending on your eligibility, for undergraduate and graduate courses at Columbia University, Barnard College and Teachers College. This is not a reimbursement or remission program; when you submit your eligibility form to your school, your tuition is simply exempt. Expand all Collapse all Coverage & Eligibility What's Covered As a member of TWU Local 241 (Maintenance & Custodial Employees, Security Officers and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Members), tuition for undergraduate or graduate courses is covered at 100%, up to a certain number of credits each term. Note that only tuition cost are covered. This benefit does not cover course fee and/or the cost of auditing a course. There is a two-semester waiting (seven months) to be eligible for this benefit. Benefits for Support Staff In general, the benefit for Support Staff applies during the academic year (September-May) to undergraduate and graduate classes at Columbia University, Barnard College and Teachers College. Members of collective bargaining agreements should review their agreement carefully for rules regarding summer term courses. Summer term courses are Columbia only. Courses given during work hours are not normally open to Support Staff; with the department head’s approval, however, staff may register for one such course each term if they arrange an alternate work schedule. TWU Full-time Support Staff: Six points, with less than one year; seven points, greater than one year TWU LDEO: Full-time Support Staff: Seven points per term Part-time Support Staff: Part-time Support Staff may receive tuition exemption for one course per term, up to three points during the first year and up to four points per term every year after that. The required number of hours in a regularly scheduled part-time work week may vary. For this and other details, part-time Support Staff must refer to their collective bargaining agreement. Benefit for Spouse or Same-Sex Domestic Partner and Dependents Eligible spouses, same-sex domestic partners and dependents may receive the unused portion of a Support Staff member’s benefit. Eligible family can only use the benefit for undergraduate and graduate classes at Columbia, not at Barnard or Teacher’s College. In addition, eligible dependent children may be enrolled at Columbia as candidates for a Bachelor’s, professional or higher degree—unless they have obtained admission to Columbia as a non-degree special student while enrolled in a similar degree program at another accredited college or university. To be eligible, you have completed four years of continuous service for TWU Local 241 or two years of continuous service for TWU Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. Courses Not Covered The Tuition Exemption Benefit does not cover the following course types for Support Staff or their family members: All short-term, intensive and fee-based courses in which the instructor is paid on the basis of the number of students registered in the course Courses with no point value Applied music courses (e.g., musical instrument instruction) Continuing education courses (i.e., those beginning with the letter "Q" or "N," unless such a course is taken to fulfill a degree requirement) Any audited courses Who Is Eligible A person on the payroll as a member of the full-time or part-time Support Staff is eligible for the Tuition Exemption Benefit once the waiting period is met. Note: The required number of hours in a regularly scheduled part-time work week may vary; union members need to consult the collective bargaining agreement for exact eligibility requirements. The Support Staff member must also be actively at work and not on any typle of leave of absence. The staff member must be covered under the following collective bargaining agreement: TWU Local 241- Maintenance & Custodial Employees, Security Officers and TWU at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO) Those in a position covered by a collective bargaining agreement should also consult that agreement for details about the program to ensure that they understand their specific eligibility requirements. In addition to being eligible for the Tuition Exemption benefit, the Support Staff must also be accepted into the school they wish to attend. Eligibility for Support Staff Family Members A person on the payroll as a member of the full-time or part-time support staff is eligible for the Tuition Exemption Benefit once the waiting period is met. Note: The required number of hours in a regularly scheduled part-time work week may vary; union members need to consult the relevant collective bargaining agreement for exact eligibility requirements. The support staff member must also be actively at work and not on any kind of leave of absence. The staff member must be covered under the following collective bargaining agreement: TWU Local 241 - Maintenance & Custodial Employees, Security Officers, and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO) Those in a position covered by a collective bargaining agreement should also consult that agreement for details about the program to ensure that they understand their specific eligibility requirements. In addition to being eligible for the Tuition Exemption benefit, the family member must be accepted into the school they wish to attend. When Eligibility Starts The support staff member and his or her spouse/same-sex domestic partner can apply for and receive the Tuition Exemption Benefit once the waiting period is met. Waiting periods apply: For TWU Local 241, including members from the Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO), new employees hired after 4/1/2013 must meet a two semester waiting period before being eligible to receive Tuition Exemption benefits for the following semester. The two-semester waiting period is administered as seven months. Dependent Waiting Periods The following waiting periods apply before dependent children are eligible for the Tuition Exemption Benefit: TWU (except LDEO): Dependents are eligible after the Support Staff member has worked four years. TWU (LDEO): Dependents are eligible after the Support Staff member has worked two years. Must be matriculated in a Bachelors, professional or higher degree program; no non-degree programs are eligible. In cases where the son or daughter are registered as a degree candidate outside the University system but are able to obtain admission as a non-matriculated special student at Columbia, Tuition Exemption will be granted. A Letter of Student in Good Standing is required. Changes in Employment Status Layoff If a Support Staff member is laid off during a term and he or she is either represented by a Union, the Tuition Exemption Benefit granted for that term will not be revoked. However, the staff member will not receive Tuition Exemption Benefit for any subsequent term. The union member should consult the collective bargaining agreement. Termination If a staff member’s employment terminates for any reason during a term in which he or she has been granted the Tuition Exemption Benefit, the staff member must refund the University for the remainder of the term. The accompanying “Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change” table shows how many exemption points are available if the staff member changes employment status during a given week of a term. Leaves of Absence Tuition benefits are not available for Support Staff who are on a leave of absence. If a staff member begins a leave during a term in which the Tuition Exemption Benefit has already been granted, he or she needs to refer to the “Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change” table below to see how many exemption points are available. Switch from Full-time to Part-time Staff members whose status changes from full-time to part-time during a term need to consult the “Full Time” column in the “Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change” table below to determine how many exemption points they are eligible to receive. Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change Number of points available for exemption: Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change Termination/Status Change Date Full-time Part-time Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change On or before the first day of class 0 0 Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change Weeks 1 and 2 1 1 Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change Weeks 3 and 4 2 1 Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change Weeks 5 and 6 3 2 Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change Weeks 7 and 8 4 2 Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change Weeks 9 and 10 5 3 Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change Weeks 11 and 12 6 3 Prorated Benefit Available Per Term Based on Termination or Job Status Change After week 12 7* 3 * TWU receive only 6 points per term during the first year of employment. Expand all Collapse all Tax Treatment Graduate-Level Studies Description According to IRS guidelines, tuition exemption benefits for graduate-level studies (course numbers 4000 & above) are exempt from taxation up to the federal limit of $5,250 in a calendar year. The value of tuition exemption benefits above the federal limit of $5,250 is treated as taxable imputed income, and taxes will be withheld from your paycheck. The University will spread the tax liability of Tuition Exemption benefits for fall classes over the October through December pay periods. The one exception to this IRS guideline is for graduate-level studies certified as “job-related,” per IRS-defined criteria. See guidelines on whether you qualify for the Job-Related tax exemption and for employee and supervisor instructions on how to certify. Job-Related Graduate Education Certification Forms Due to the impact of Covid-19, new Job-Related forms must be submitted by your Supervisor to [email protected], confirming it has been signed and certified as job-related per the IRS criteria reflected in the policy. Non-Degree Programs – New forms must be certified and submitted each term. Degree Programs – Forms must only be certified once (unless you change your degree program, or job); however, a copy of the supervisor-certified form must be submitted each term. Note: Forms must be submitted by the end date of the Change of Program End Period. Important: If you do not submit a Job-Related Graduate Education Certification Form demonstrating these courses are related to your work at the University, your paycheck will be taxed for the tuition value of courses exceeding the annual federal limit. How to Submit Forms Email: Columbia Programs Email: Morningside and Medical Center (CUIMC) Campuses, [email protected] If you have any questions about your student account, please contact SFS at [email protected]. Expand all Collapse all How to Apply Application & Checklist For complete details, see the Tuition Exemption Checklist. Basic Checklist to Apply: Confirm your eligibility and learn what’s covered Register for classes Review tax implications and job-relatedness Submit Completed Tuition Exemption Benefits and Job-Related Graduate Education Certification forms to Student Financial Services: Due to Covid-19 protocols, “in person drop-off” of Tuition Exemption and Job-Related forms has been temporarily suspended. Please submit your forms via the email addresses below: Columbia Morningside and Medical Center Campuses: [email protected] Barnard College: [email protected] Teachers College: [email protected] Due to Covid-19 protocols, all new JRGEC forms must be submitted by your supervisor by email to [email protected] to confirm the form has been signed and certified as job-related. Columbia University reserves the right to change or terminate the Tuition Exemption Benefit Program at any time, consistent with its obligations under the National Labor Relations Act. Please note that this program does not cover courses taken outside Columbia University, Barnard or Teachers College. Consult your collective bargaining agreement for more information about tuition. Tuition Programs TWU Tuition Exemption Job-Related Graduate Education Certification Tuition Tax Treatment College Coach Tuition Exemption News Review Eligibility & Print Forms: Log in to CUBES Confirm access using multifactor authentication (DUO) Select "Tuition" in the menu On the Tuition Programs page, choose your program Resources Collective Bargaining Agreements Tuition Exemption Benefit Policy Job-Related Graduate Education Policy Tuition Exemption Benefit Checklist Student in Good Standing Letter FAQs Work-Life Workshops & Events Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close