Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Learning & Development Summer Learning 2022 Summer Learning 2022 Participate in self-paced learning via LinkedIn Learning, or explore the Resource Library and Team Building pages for activities to inspire and engage yourself and your staff. Have a specific idea in mind, and want to use the summer to run a workshop for your team/department/school? Take a look at our Consulting Services page, and inquire about customized services. Email [email protected] if you need further assistance. Fall 2022 workshop registration opens in September Expand all Collapse all Learning Opportunities LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning provides video courses taught by industry experts in software, creative, and business skills. Visit our LinkedIn Learning page to explore Monthly Challenges and Recommended Learning Paths. Resource Library The Resource Library includes articles other resources that can be used to encourage growth and development for all employees at Columbia. Summer Book Club: 'Who Moved My Cheese?' 'Who Moved My Cheese?' by Spencer Johnson Length: 94 pages -- an easy read for your team this summer. About the book: Life doesn’t always turn out the way we think it will. When change happens, a lot of us have a natural tendency to resist that change. Why? Simply put, change can be scary; it represents the unknown, which challenges our sense of safety and security. Who Moved my Cheese? is a very simple story about change. It’s about seeing change, anticipating change, and adapting to change. "Cheese" is a metaphor for what you want to have in life -- whether it is a good job, a loving relationship, money, a possession, health, or spiritual peace of mind. The only constant in the world is change. Use these Discussion Questions & Team Building Activities to incorporate the reading of Who Moved My Cheese? into your team meetings. This is especially useful as we continue the quest to find balance and connection in the hybrid/remote work environment. Watch this animated summary of Who Moved My Cheese? on Youtube. Team Building Continue to foster team dynamics by facilitating one of our recommended team building exercises at your next team meeting. Consulting Services Customized learning solutions for teams/departments/schools are available upon request. Visit the Consulting Services page for more information. Additional Readings & Resources Resources for Managers Performance Review Prep Form for Managers One on One Meeting Prep Non-Monetary Rewards Resources for Individual Contributors Performance Review Prep Form for Staff One on One Meeting Prep Active Listening Skills Additional books to enrich your professional development: 'Leading from Anywhere: The Essential Guide to Managing Remote Teams' by David Burkus Leading from Anywhere provides everything you’ll need to survive and thrive as the leader of a remote team 'Crucial Conversations: Tools for Talking When Stakes Are High, Second Edition' by Kerry Paterson, Joseph Grenny, David Maxfield, Ron McMillan, and Al Switzler Suggested for anyone seeking ways to communicate with colleagues persuasively and effectively 'Get a G.R.I.P. on Remote Work: Tips and Techniques to Avoid "Zoomicide" and Other Hazards' by Andrew Silberman Beneficial reading for anyone looking for ways to deal with and overcome the challenges presented by remote work Watch Now: How to Lead Remote Teams Effectively How To Lead Remote Teams Effectively Learning & Development Affiliate Registration Course Offerings Certificate Programs Consulting Services LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Team-Building Activities Contact Other Trainings & Sites LinkedIn Learning HR Training (ELM) Finance Training Security Awareness Training CU Libraries Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close