Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Tuition Programs Officers - College Tuition Scholarship Officers - College Tuition Scholarship The College Tuition Scholarship (CTS) is available to full-time faculty and other Officers of the University (includes Officers of Instruction, Administration, the Libraries and Research) and their eligible children. Employment status may affect eligibility. There is a four-year waiting period for the benefit. Expand all Collapse all Eligibility Who Is Eligible? You are a regular, full-time, salaried Officer of Instruction, Administration, the Libraries and Research; and You or your spouse/same-sex domestic partner has a dependent child—a natural child, adopted child, or stepchild, or a child for whom one of you has legal guardianship—who is a candidate for an undergraduate degree at an accredited college or university other than Columbia or Barnard College; and The dependent child is age 26 or under at the time they begin matriculation* for their undergraduate degree; AND You were hired, appointed or promoted to an Officer on or before July 1, 2011, and have not had a break in service of more than 31 days after July 1, 2011, OR You were hired, appointed or promoted to an Officer after July 1, 2011, or have had a break in service of more than 31 days after July 1, 2011, and have completed four years of full-time continuous service. Officers Are Not Eligible If: You are a Visiting Officer of Instruction or Research, Postdoctoral Research Fellow or Postdoctoral Clinical Fellow *Matriculation refers to being officially accepted and enrolled in a degree program. This requires a commitment to the program at the time of admission and enrolling in the correct number of courses based on the rules of the program to remain in good academic standing. When Eligibility Starts Eligibility depends on an Officer’s hire date and years of service. For Officers hired, rehired, appointed or promoted after July 1, 2011: You are eligible to receive a CTS for the next full term following completion of four years of continuous full-time service and meeting the other eligibility requirements as detailed above. For Officers hired, rehired, appointed or promoted on or prior to July 1, 2011: You are eligible to receive a CTS for the next full term, without regard to a service requirement, after you meet the eligibility requirements as detailed above. Note: To be eligible, dependent children must be age 26 or under at the time they begin matriculation for their undergraduate degree. After a child attains age 26, they must maintain matriculation status for the undergraduate degree started on or prior to age 26 to be eligible for CTS. Expand all Collapse all CTS Benefits What's Covered For eligible dependent children, a CTS benefit pays 50% of a student’s undergraduate tuition at accredited institutions outside of Columbia (up to an annually-defined limit of current year’s Columbia College tuition) for up to eight semesters. The child must matriculate into their degree program by the end of the month in which they turn age 26. Study Abroad If an Officer’s child is registered for an undergraduate degree at an accredited college or university other than Columbia or Barnard College and takes a term to study abroad, the courses will be eligible for coverage under the CTS if another accredited Academic institution bills the tuition costs. The term will count toward the eight-semester limit of eligibility for the CTS, unless it is a Summer Term. Third Party Study Abroad Programs, not billed through the college or university, are not covered. Summer Terms The CTS program will cover a student for summer terms. This is in addition to the eight (8) semesters (or equivalent number of trimesters or quarters) already allotted, provided that the summer courses are taken after the dependent child has matriculated for the first semester of study and the summer courses are taken during those years in which the student is eligible for the eight semesters of fall or spring term CTS. The dependent child must provide written proof from their college or university on the institution’s letterhead that they are a student in good standing, and that the summer courses are required as part of his or her academic program. (See: Student in Good Standing Letter). Summer Terms at Columbia In addition to CTS, dependent children of Officers and their spouses or same-sex domestic partners may be eligible for Tuition Exemption as non-matriculated students in Columbia’s Summer Session. The child must provide written proof from their college or university on their institution’s letterhead that they are a student in good standing, and that the courses must be taken as part of his or her academic program. The child may also receive Tuition Exemption if accepted as a Visiting Student in Special Students Program during the Fall and Spring Terms. The student’s college need not grant point credit for the courses taken, and these terms do not count toward the eight-semester limit of eligibility for the CTS. Expand all Collapse all How to Apply Checklist You apply for the CTS programs by following instructions in the Checklist and submitting your completed application via EBPA after July 1 for the start of a new fall term. EBPA is our third party administrator that processes CTS applications and calculates CTS benefits payments based on CU guidelines. CTS Checklist How to Submit Submit application to EBPA after July 1 for the start of a new undergraduate school year. Go to secure.ebpabenefits.com; click “Reimbursement Accounts”; enter information; upload documents; or Send via fax: 603‐773‐4425; or Send via mail: EBPA, P.O. Box 1140, Exeter, NH 03833‐1140. For application status and payment processing questions, please go to EBPA Contact Us at https://www.ebpabenefits.com/contact-us or call EBPA customer service: 1-888-456-4576. Processing timeframes: EBPA will review your uploaded documents within 2-3 business days to confirm completeness of the application prior to processing. CTS application processing begins after all required documentation is received and may take up to 15 business days to complete. Expand all Collapse all Employment Changes Affecting Eligibility Layoff If you are laid off during a term, your child's CTS for that term will not be revoked. However, he or she will not be eligible for a CTS for any subsequent term. Involuntary Termination Involuntary Termination or Involuntary Transfer to Part-Time Employment If you are involuntarily discharged or released, or involuntarily transferred—other than for cause—from a full-time to a part-time appointment during a term, the CTS benefit for the current term will not be revoked. However, the Officer will not be granted CTS benefits for any subsequent term. If your employment is terminated for cause, you will be required to pay back a portion of the CTS benefit for the current term, according to the tables under Voluntary Resignation. Note that the day of the month is not relevant for this purpose. (Eligibility officially ends at the close of business on the last day of your active, full-time employment with the University.) Voluntary Resignation Voluntary Resignation or Voluntary Transfer to Part-Time Employment If you resign, are discharged or released, or switch from a full-time to a part-time appointment during a term, you must refund to Columbia a portion of any CTS benefit received for that term. The table under “Proportion of Scholarship Retained by School Terms” outlines the portion of CTS you are entitled to retain if you leave in a given month. Note that the day of the month is not relevant for this purpose. Eligibility officially ends at the close of business on the last day of your active, full-time employment with the University. Proportion of Scholarship Retained by School Terms - School with Three Terms Month of Separation January Proportion of Scholarship Retained 25% Term Spring Month of Separation February Proportion of Scholarship Retained 50% Term Spring Month of Separation March Proportion of Scholarship Retained 75% Term Spring Month of Separation April Proportion of Scholarship Retained 100% Term Spring Month of Separation May Proportion of Scholarship Retained 25% Term Summer Month of Separation June Proportion of Scholarship Retained 50% Term Summer Month of Separation July Proportion of Scholarship Retained 75% Term Summer Month of Separation August Proportion of Scholarship Retained 100% Term Summer Month of Separation September Proportion of Scholarship Retained 25% Term Fall Month of Separation October Proportion of Scholarship Retained 50% Term Fall Month of Separation November Proportion of Scholarship Retained 75% Term Fall Month of Separation December Proportion of Scholarship Retained 100% Term Fall Proportion of Scholarship Retained by School Terms - School with Four Terms Month of Separation January Proportion of Scholarship Retained 33% Term Winter Month of Separation February Proportion of Scholarship Retained 66% Term Winter Month of Separation March Proportion of Scholarship Retained 100% Term Winter Month of Separation April Proportion of Scholarship Retained 33% Term Spring Month of Separation May Proportion of Scholarship Retained 66% Term Spring Month of Separation June Proportion of Scholarship Retained 100% Term Spring Month of Separation July Proportion of Scholarship Retained 33% Term Summer Month of Separation August Proportion of Scholarship Retained 66% Term Summer Month of Separation September Proportion of Scholarship Retained 100% Term Summer Month of Separation October Proportion of Scholarship Retained 33% Term Fall Month of Separation November Proportion of Scholarship Retained 66% Term Fall Month of Separation December Proportion of Scholarship Retained 100% Term Fall Leave of Absence Officers on any paid or unpaid leave of absence are still considered to be full-time Officers and their otherwise eligible children continue to qualify for the CTS. Promotion to Officer If a support staff employee is promoted to an Officer after July 1, 2011, eligibility for the CTS benefit will depend on whether the new Officer has met the four-year service requirement. Full-time continuous service as support staff immediately prior to promotion counts toward the four-year service requirement before Officers’ children may qualify for CTS. Retirement Upon the Officer’s retirement, children remain eligible for CTS benefits for which they were eligible under the terms in effect (at the time the application is submitted). To retire with this benefit, an Officer must be 55 years or older and must have completed ten (10) years of continuous benefits-eligible service after age 45. Death If a deceased Officer had completed ten (10) years of continuous benefits-eligible service at death, the otherwise eligible dependent child of the Officer, or of the Officer’s spouse or same-sex domestic partner, is eligible for a CTS under the terms in effect for active Officers at the time the application is submitted. If a deceased Officer had completed less than ten (10) years of continuous benefits-eligible service at death, the otherwise eligible dependent child may receive a CTS only to complete a degree program started before the Officer’s death. Tax Treatment Under current Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations, a CTS only counts as taxable income when it benefits the dependent child of a same-sex domestic partner. Tuition Programs Officers Primary Tuition Scholarship Program College Tuition Scholarship Program Tuition Exemption Reduced Employee Rate Job-Related Graduate Education Certification Tuition Tax Treatment College Coach Resources CTS Policy CTS Checklist Student in Good Standing Letter Grants, Awards, and Scholarships Letter FAQs Application - Eligible Retired Officers Application - Family of Deceased Officers Work/Life Workshops & Events Review Eligibility & Print Forms: Log in to CUBES Confirm access using multifactor authentication (DUO) Select "Tuition" in the menu On the Tuition Programs page, choose your program Submit Application to EBPA On the EBPA website, click on "Reimbursement Accounts" and enter your information and upload your application and supporting documentation PDFs. College Tuition Scholarship News In the event that the information contained on this page conflicts with any other published information, the policy prevails. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close