Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Voluntary Benefits Identity Theft Protection Identity Theft Protection Identity Theft insurance covers expenses incurred to restore your identity or recover a stolen wallet. This benefit includes 24/7 monitoring of your identity, credit, and bank and investment accounts—sending out real time alerts when necessary—to take the worry and hassle out of combating identity theft and related fraud. The University's Identity Theft protection is provided by LifeLock. How it works Pay for coverage with payroll deductions. You, your spouse and eligible children can be covered (unique to the University's plan) In case of identity theft, the plan pays up to $1,000,000 as stolen funds reimbursement, coverage for lawyers and experts and/or personal expense compensation. Take policy with you if you end University employment. More Information Identity Theft - LifeLock - Benefit Information LifeLock with Norton video: LifeLock Identity Theft Protection Transcript Today's digital world has a dark side. Everyday things like shopping, banking and even browsing online can expose personal information and make employees vulnerable to cybercriminals. There's a victim of identity theft every 2 seconds. Of the identity theft victims who contacted the ID Theft Resources Center in 2018: 32% felt that the incident caused problems for them at their place of employment (either with their boss or coworkers). 42% noted that as a result of their identity theft,they are in debt. 85% felt worried, angry and frustrated because of their identity theft. We believe that even though the digital world can be threatening, employees should feel safer. So as cybercrime has evolved, we've evolved too. LifeLock with Norton Benefits Plans. LifeLock has added the power of Norton to create an employee benefit that's easy-to-use protection against today's new threats. This benefit includes: Identity Theft Protection Device Security Password Manager Dark Web Monitoring Using new LifeLock with Norton benefit plans is easy. Sign Up. It only takes a few minutes to install. We can scan & alert. If we detect a potential threat to your identity, we alert you by text, email or phone. We defend. With Norton Security you get protection against cybercriminals stealing personal information from your devices. We resolve. If you become a victim of identity theft we'll work to fix it. We reimburse. We'll reimburse funds stolen due to identity theft up to the limit of your plan. It's all backed up by our million dollar protection package. LifeLock. Having protection for your identity and devices shouldn't be an option, it should be a benefit. Enroll Today Voluntary Benefits Accident Insurance Auto Insurance Critical Illness Insurance Home Insurance Hospital Indemnity Insurance Identity Theft Protection Pet Insurance Universal Life with Long-Term Care Insurance If you have questions, call Farmington, the University’s Voluntary Benefits administrator, Monday to Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 866-494-4498 Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close