Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Well-being Mental Health Mental Health Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 EAP May Webinars: Understanding and Supporting Teen and Adolescents Mental Health Register EAP May Webinars: Understanding and Supporting Children's Mental Health Register Previous Next According to the World Health Organization, "Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity." Mental health is important at every life stage. It encompasses our emotional, behavioral and psychological well-being—how we feel, act and think. It determines how we handle stress, make choices, and contribute to our family and community. The University is committed to supporting the mental health and well-being of you and your loved ones. We offer a range of resources, from education to support, to help everyone live healthy, fulfilling lives. Services & Resources Find Mental Health Professionals Find trained and skilled mental health professionals, clinics, support groups, and public services providing care. Employee Assistance Program Learn about mental health symptoms, resources, and treatments on the EAP website. Login: columbia Password: eap Virtual Therapist Use TalkSpace—online messaging therapy—to connect confidentially with a professional therapist. 15% discount for University employees. Self-care App Diffuse stress, anxiety, and depression through on-demand coaching techniques. Premium services are free to UHC members. Wellness Coaching Call a UHC wellness coach free of charge for one-on-one advice and recommendations: 1-800-478-1057. Emotional Well-being Programs Check out the University's Office of Work/Life well-being resources and programs focused on emotional health and stress relief. Sleep and How to Improve It Sufficient sleep is a known factor in good health and well-being. Discover paths to good sleep. Self-Help Videos Coping in Uncertain Times Coping in Uncertain Times Avoiding Emotional Fatigue Avoiding Emotional Fatigue Hotlines Crisis: 1-800-273-8255 Call if you feel you are a threat to yourself or someone else. Suicide: 1-800-273-TALK (8255) Call if you are feeling in despair. There is someone to hear you. EAP: 888-673-1153 (TTY: 711) Call the 24-hour Hotline for confidential counseling and referrals. Notice: This website does not provide mental health diagnosis nor treatment. If you are in crisis, call 911 or the emergency hotlines above. For ongoing mental health care, contact a therapist or make an appointment with a clinical psychiatrist. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close