Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Retiree Benefits Prospective Retiree - Officers Prospective Retiree - Officers Expand all Collapse all What Happens to My Benefits When I Retire? Medical, Prescription & Vision Coverage Medical, prescription and vision benefits are available upon retirement if you have satisfied the eligibility requirements. To be eligible, Officers must be 55 years or older and have 10 or more years of service with the University. For more information on eligibility, see Eligibility for Retiree Benefits. Also see Retiree Medical-Life Insurance Plan Medical plans for retired Officers vary depending on if you retire before or after age 65. For more information, see: Retired Officers Medical Benefits Under Age 65 Retired Officers Medical Benefits Age 65 and Over Premiums See the current year premiums chart for all medical plans Dental Coverage Dental coverage is available upon retirement if you have satisfied the eligibility requirements. To be eligible, Officers must be 55 years or older and have 10 or more years service with the University, after age 45. For more information on eligibility, visit Eligibility for Retiree Benefits. See details on dental coverage Tax Savings Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) Healthcare and Dependent Care FSAs cease upon retirement. You will have until 90 days following your retirement date to submit claims for expenses incurred in the current year up until your last day worked. To submit a claim, complete the UHC Healthcare FSA Claim Form and/or the UHC Dependent Care FSA Claim Form and submit the form and receipts to UnitedHealthcare through www.myuhc.com. If you have any questions, call UnitedHealthcare at 800-232-9357 or go to www.myuhc.com. Medical plan options for Retired Officers vary based on your age at retirement. For more information, see: Health Spending Account (HSA) If you were enrolled in a High Deductible Health Plan, you were eligible to participate and set aside tax-free funds using an HSA (if you were enrolled in the High Deductible Health Plan), provided you were not enrolled in Medicare Part A or B at that time. The money from your HSA remains yours even after you retire from Columbia—to be used for qualified medical expenses, dental and vision care, prescription drugs, COBRA premiums and post-retirement Medicare coverage. If you wish to withdraw HSA funds to pay for non-qualified expenses, you will pay taxes on that distribution, along with an additional 20% penalty if you are under the age of 65. Optum Bank is the administrator of the HSA. You may contact Optum Bank at 800-791-9361 or at www.optumbank.com. Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (T/PRP) Your transit and parking reimbursement benefit will cease upon retirement. You will have until 90 days following your retirement date to submit claims for expenses incurred in the current year up until your last day worked. To submit a claim, complete the EBPA Transit/Parking Reimbursement Form and send it to EBPA. If you have any questions, call EBPA at 888-456-4576 or go to www.ebpabenefits.com. Life Insurance If you are currently participating in Columbia's Life Insurance plan, your group coverage will end upon retirement. You are entitled to convert your coverage to an individual life insurance policy from Cigna for any amount up to your current group coverage. You cannot be denied life insurance coverage due to your health status. This means that you do not need to complete an evidence of insurability (EOI) form when converting coverage. As part of this transition, Cigna has changed its name to New York Life Group Benefit Solutions. The transition does not impact your current coverage or access. Cigna Life will automatically send you a conversion notice and application when your retirement is processed. If you wish to convert your policy, you must complete the application and return it to Cigna. You are eligible for a life insurance benefit. The amount of life insurance depends on your union affiliation, upon retirement. Please refer to your collective bargaining agreement for details. Long-Term Care Insurance If you are enrolled in Long-Term Care (LTC) Insurance, you will pay your premiums directly to the LTC insurance provider. For more information, see the provider contact information. Long-Term Disability Your group long-term disability coverage will terminate upon retirement. Retirement Programs Both your contributions to your Voluntary Retirement Savings Plan (VRSP) and the University’s contributions to your University Retirement Plan will cease upon retirement. However, your funds will remain available. Learn more about accessing your retirement funds Tuition Programs Tuition benefits are available upon retirement if you have satisfied the eligibility requirements. To be eligible, an Officer must be 55 years or older and must have completed 10 years of continuous benefits-eligible service as a regular, full-time Officer on and after age 45 and must have retired immediately after termination of employment with Columbia University. The following tuition benefits are available after retirement: College Tuition Scholarship (CTS), Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS) and Tuition Exemption. If you will be entering phased retirement, you will be treated as an active full-time Officer for purposes of tuition benefits until your date of retirement. Learn more about tuition benefits for retired Officers Phased Retirement Officers of Administration who are age 55 or over, have completed 10 years of service with the University, and are contemplating retirement may explore the possibility of a Phased Retirement in which your workload is gradually decreased instead of going immediately into full retirement. Please contact your department’s HR Manager for more information. Continued Association You can continue you connection with Columbia University after you retire. By renewing your Columbia ID card, you will have access to libraires, the shuttle bus, and discounts at campus venues. The Dodge Fitness Center offers basic membership to retirees at a 50% discount. Learn more Employee Assistance Program Effective January 1, 2019, retired Officers may continue taking advantage of the University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP). The EAP is a network of services to help you and your household members cope with issues that you experience in everyday life. Provided by Humana, the EAP offers short-term confidential counseling and wellness resources, identity theft protection and convenience services. Learn more about the EAP Retiree Benefits Prospective Retiree - Support Staff Prospective Retiree - Officers Current Retiree - Support Staff Current Retiree - Officers See All Retiree Benefits Related Documents Medical Election Form for Officers Medical Indemnity Plan SPD UHC Choice Plus 100, 90, 80 Summary Plan Description for Pre-65 Retirees UHC Choice Plus 100 SPD for Post-65 Retirees Resources Retirement Checklist Eligibility Making Changes to Your Benefits Retirement Workshops Understanding Medicare FAQs Retiree Contacts Health Advocate Re-Employment Employee Assistance Program Well-being Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close