Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Labor and Employee Relations Labor and Employee Relations Columbia University is committed to fair and respectful interactions between all employees and management. The Office of Labor and Employee Relations manages all matters related to the University’s union staff. We provide resources and information to resolve conflicts, strategic planning on labor issues and professional consultations to the University community. Expand all Collapse all General Information The Office of Labor & Employee Relations The Columbia University Office of Labor and Employee Relations provides strategic leadership and guidance in matters related to the University’s unionized workforce, including: Interpretation and negotiation of 14 separate collective bargaining agreements for approximately 6,000 unionized staff. Managing contractual grievance processes. Managing Officer grievance procedure. Managing the University's New York State Unemployment Insurance Benefits process. Collaborating with schools and departments to investigate employee workplace complaints. Labor relations training for the University community. Union Office Contacts Local 32BJ, AFL-CIO 212-889-4100 Local 100, AFL-CIO 212-541-4226 Local 241, TWU, AFL-CIO, Maintenance and Custodial 212-851-1697 Local 241, TWU, AFL-CIO, Security Officers 212-851-1697 Local 241, TWU, AFL-CIO, Lamont Maintenance 212-851-1697 Local 1199, SEIU, AFL-CIO, Clerical Employees 212-261-2430 Local 1199 SEIU, AFL-CIO, Cafeteria Employees 212-261-2430 Local 1199 SEIU (SSA), AFL-CIO 212-305-4115 Local 2110, UAW, AFL-CIO 212-749-6703 Marine Engineer Benevolent Association (MEBA), AFL-CIO 201-433-7700 Masters, Mates and Pilots, MM&P 201-963-1900 Collective Bargaining Agreements (Union Contracts) 32BJ Service Employees Contract 1199 SEIU Medical Assistants Contract 1199 SEIU UHC Workers East SSA Area Contract 1199 SEIU Cafeteria Clerical Contract 2110 Technical, Office and Professional Workers Contract CPW-UAW Postdoctoral Research Scientists/Scholars and Associate Research Scientists/Scholars Licensed Deck Officers at Lamont - Mates Local 100 Faculty House Contract Marine Engineers' Beneficial Association Masters, Mates & Pilots Contract SWC-UAW TWU 241 Lamont Maintenance TWU 241 Security Officers Contract TWU Local 241 Maintenance Contract Unemployment Insurance Contact & Form Camille Nicholson Studebaker MC 8710 622 W. 132nd Street, 5th Floor New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-851-4089 Fax: 212-234-1819 Email: [email protected] Record of Employment Form Expand all Collapse all Resources For Managers Managing Union Staff Go to the Toolkit for information and guidance on Managing Union Staff. Professional Training Go to our Learning & Development pages to view the available training, such as the Managing Unionized Staff course (offered periodically). In addition, the Office of Labor and Employee Relations conducts on-site, individualized training for managers. Probationary Period All newly-hired, newly-promoted and newly-transferred union employees are placed on a probationary period. Probationary periods vary in length according to a union group's collective bargaining agreement. Upon an employee's satisfactory completion of the probationary period, he or she is considered a regular employee (unless the job is stated to be temporary). A probationary period may be extended under certain circumstances. The length of a probationary period extension also varies across union groups. Please consult the appropriate collective bargaining agreement. Termination of employment while on probation or extended probationary period must be approved by the head of the department, and must be indicated in writing to the employee. Copies of the letter must be shared with the Office of Labor and Employee Relations and the respective union. Grievance Procedure for Union Support Staff Procedures for handling union support staff concerns and grievances are covered in each collective bargaining agreements. Managers of union support staff should be familiar with the content of the applicable union contracts. For additional information and guidance, please contact the Office of Labor and Employee Relations. Discipline Procedure for Union Support Staff All employees are expected to adhere to generally accepted rules of conduct and organizational behavior. Please review the Administrative Code of Conduct and Statement of Ethical Conduct Policy for a statement of these basic principles. If the work performance or conduct of a union support staff member does not meet acceptable standards, please contact the Office of Labor and Employee Relations. Grievance and Discipline Procedures for Faculty The Office of the Provost manages grievance and disciplinary procedures for faculty, and serves as the University's affirmative action officer. Discrimination & Harassment For complaints of discrimination and harassment, contact the University's Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Compliance Training When Working with Minors HR provides mandatory training for managers and staff who interact with minors (underage students). In most cases, training is assigned to staff by a supervisor. Go to Compliance Training for more. For Union Members Professional Training HR Learning & Development provides training on everything from improving communications skills, to learning new software, to advancing your career. Workshops, webinars and online learning opportunities are available throughout the year. Go to the list of Course Offerings. Probationary Period All newly-hired, newly-promoted and newly-transferred union employees are placed on a probationary period. Probationary periods vary in length according to a union group's collective bargaining agreement. Upon an employee's satisfactory completion of the probationary period, he or she is considered a regular employee (unless the job is stated to be temporary). A probationary period may be extended under certain circumstances. The length of a probationary period extension also varies across union groups. Please consult the appropriate collective bargaining agreement. Grievance Procedure Procedures for raising grievances are covered in each union's collective bargaining agreement. Union members should be familiar with the content of their contract. Contact your union representative for more information and guidance. Discipline Procedure All University employees are expected to adhere to generally-accepted rules of conduct and organizational behavior. Please review the Administrative Code of Conduct and Statement of Ethical Conduct Policy for a statement of these basic principles. Unions may have additional procedures. Contact your union for details. For Officers Grievance, Compliance and Training For information on grievance procedures, compliance issues and training for Officers, go to Workplace Conduct & Training. Professional Training HR Learning & Development provides training on everything from improving communications skills, to learning new software, to successfully managing staff. Workshops, webinars and online learning opportunities are available throughout the year. Go to the list of Course Offerings. Compliance Training When Working with Minors HR provides mandatory training for anyone who manages, teaches or interacts with minors (underage students). In most cases, training is assigned by your supervisor. Go to Compliance Training for more information. For Faculty Labor issues governing faculty (Officers of Instruction and Officers of Research) are found in the Faculty Handbook. Professional Training HR Learning & Development provides training on everything from improving communications skills, to learning new software, to successfully managing staff. Workshops, webinars and online learning opportunities are available throughout the year. Go to the list of Course Offerings. Compliance Training When Working with Minors HR provides mandatory training for faculty who manage, teach or interact with minors (underage students). In most cases, training is assigned by your supervisor. Go to Compliance Training for more information. Expand all Collapse all Other Employee Services Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action 103 Low Library, MC 4333 212-854-5511 [email protected] Use this Referral Form for alleged discrimination, harassment or gender-based misconduct. Employee Assistance Program The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a network of free services, provided by Humana, to help you and your household members cope with issues experienced in everyday life. Services include short-term confidential counseling, wellness resources and tools to help you be successful in the workplace. Go to the Employee Assistance Program Login: Username: Columbia Password: eap Note: You do not have to be covered by a Columbia medical plan. Office of Work/Life The Office of Work/Life provides programs for all faculty, researchers, administrators, staff and students in their pursuit of productive and fulfilling professional and personal lives—from wellness, to family services, to recruitment and relocation programs. Visit Office of Work/Life Ombuds Office Whether you are a student, faculty member, staff or alumni, the Ombuds Office offers a confidential place to discuss workplace issues, academic concerns, issues relating to administrative paperwork and process, explanation and interpretation of policies and procedures and many other issues or concerns. The Ombuds Office doesn’t take sides in disputes and operates independently of the University administration. Visit the Ombuds Office Provost's Office The Provost has broad responsibility for ensuring University programs and faculty are of the highest quality. The Provost provides assistance to the Tenure Review Advisory Committee and authorizes all academic appointments, salaries and leaves. The Provost also reviews faculty grievances and serves as the University's chief affirmative action officer. More Information: Office of the Provost Student Unionization News Educational Agreements News Workplace Essentials Collective Bargaining Agreements Labor & Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary & Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take Vacation & Time Away Take a Leave of Absence Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct Contact Us Office of Labor & Employee Relations Manhattanville campus 615 West 161 Street Studebaker Building, 5th Floor New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-851-4089 Fax: 212-234-1819 Email: [email protected] Office hours: Monday - Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. To access the building, please bring your Columbia ID or a valid ID. Studebaker is a regular stop on the Intercampus Shuttle and walking distance from the 1 train at 125th Street. Columbia University Human Resources delivers effective, high-quality and trusted human resources guidance and services to the University community. Working collaboratively, we provide expertise and strategic solutions in all areas of human resource management in support of the University’s mission. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close