Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Retirement & Financial Planning Retirement Video Tutorials Retirement Video Tutorials CUBES Vanguard Log in TIAA Log in Calculators Goal Setting Video Tutorials Your Retirement Savings Plans - Faculty & Officers Learn about Columbia University's two retirement plan options for Faculty and Officers. Your Retirement Savings Plans Transcript Whether you’re new to the university or looking to enhance your retirement savings, there’s a lot to cheer about, including a host of great benefits like the Columbia University Retirement Savings Programs—an easy way to save for your future. The university offers two retirement plans to help you plan and save: The Columbia University Voluntary Retirement Savings Plan, or VRSP, and the Officers’ Retirement Plan. You are eligible to participate in the VRSP beginning on your date of hire. To start participating, you must be employed by and receive a paycheck from Columbia University. You can contribute from 1% to 80% of your eligible pay on a pre-tax and/or Roth basis, in half percentages up to the IRS annual contribution limit, in addition to catch-up contributions The IRS limit applies to your combined pre-tax and Roth contributions. For new hires, the university will match yourpre-tax and Roth savings combined to a maximum of 3% of eligible pay. For all participants in the VRSP, you are always 100% entitled to the value of your own contributions. If you are a benefits-eligible officer of the university, you will be eligible for the Officers’ Retirement Plan. The university makes all of the core contributions to this plan based on your age and service with the university. The university’s retirement savings programs are designed to supplement retirement income, along with your additional savings, investments and Social Security benefits. Whenever you want, you can change your contribution level, your retirement provider and your investments simply by logging in to the Columbia University Benefits Enrollment System, also called CUBES, or contacting the Columbia Benefits Service Center at (212) 851-7000. You have a wide range of funds to choose from for investing the university’s core and matching contributions through the provider you select, either TIAA or Vanguard. Contributions are invested through your choice of the two companies, each with a variety of investment options. You are always entitled to the full value of the university’s matching (if applicable) and core contributions. Let’s look at each of your choices, starting with TIAA. For over 100 years, TIAA has provided financial services exclusively to not-for-profit institutions. TIAA offers a range of investment products, including fixed and variable annuities that can provide guaranteed lifetime income. As a new hire, TIAA will offer you access to a financial consultant who can work with you over time to plan out your financial future at no extra cost. TIAA financial consultants provide one-on-one counseling on campuses, by phone or online video conference, as well as at local office locations in New York City. Your other option is The Vanguard Group.Vanguard is one of the world’s largest investmentmanagement companies with more than $5.7 trillion in assets under management. Vanguard offers quality investments, dedicated client service and competitive costs. To make an appointment with Vanguard for a review of your personal situation on one of the university’s campuses, visit meetvanguard.com. Both TIAA and Vanguard have dedicated customer service and provide vital tools, guidance and education to help you make important decisions about your financial journey. We hope this video has been helpful in introducing you to your two retirement provider choices. Whether you’re just starting your adventure, or you’re already down the path,taking steps to reach your financial goals is an important part of the journey. Visit the university’s human resources website to learn more about the program and each provider’s offerings. You should consider the investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses carefully before investing. Go to TIAA.org/Columbia for current product and fund prospectusesthat contain this and other information. Please read the prospectuses carefully before investing. Real Talk about Saving People share their personal stories about how they started saving for retirement early in their careers and participated in retirement plans. Real Talk about Saving for Retirement Transcript I was like wait I need to save money to retire when I got my first job out of college is when I realized this is really important to start saving for retirement one day we're gonna wake up and we're gonna be like how much money today I was in my 20s it was all about going out and spending every dime I made it was about having you know the coolest shoes and the most fun car instead of getting the sports car now I've gotten you know the regular sedan and really concentrated on getting money into that 401k I started saving in my employer sponsored plan from day one goes right into that retirement account if I never see it into my checking account nice can't spend it my employer is also matching the contribution towards thatso that's like a pretty money in my opinion now that I've been doing it for some time and I've been able to see that nest egg grow now I feel really accomplished and really proud and committed it's really an amazing opportunity and I honestly wouldn't understand why anybody would not contribute to their employers plan that money is going to compound and you'll never miss it it's one of those things where you just want to prepare now before it's too late and it might not seem that a few dollars here and there is gonna get you anywhere but when you want to start to see your savings grow and compound over time you'll realize that the choices you made 15 years ago will really pay off I'm not looking for any yachts or you know fancy Shore houses I want to enjoy my retirement I don't want to have to be on an overly tight budget the more you can put in the better off it is do not let money control your life you control money. Target Date Investing What is Target Date Investing and how does it work? This video reviews how to make the best retirement investing choices for your needs. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close