Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Contact Ask Human Resources Ask Human Resources Expand all Collapse all Employment, Pay, Tax Info, Personal Data & General Information: I have questions about... Hiring and personnel transactions (PAC) HR policies and procedures Job applications and employment Paychecks and direct deposit Personal data Changes to personal information Vacation and sick time Tax information (W2s, 1042s); tax treaty exemption General information Frequently Asked Questions I am a new hire and don’t have access to Self-Service in PAC. How do I obtain access? If you don’t have access to Self-Service in PAC, it is because you have not yet been set up in PAC. Please have your HR manager or Department Administrator submit your new hire paperwork (if not already submitted) to HRPC. HRPC can take up to 2 weeks to enter your information in the system. Once your credentials are loaded into PAC, you will have access to Self-Service. How can I update my federal/state/city taxes? Where can I submit my IT2104 Form? To make changes to the W-4 form, go to My.Columbia to view and/or update your HR data. For other forms, such at IT2104, please mail original copies to: Human Resources 615 West 131st Street 4th Floor Studebaker Mail Code: 8702 New York, NY 10027 How can I set up my direct deposit? Direct Deposit set-up instructions Video tutorial My check was direct deposited into the incorrect bank account. How can I fix this? If your check was deposited to a wrong (outdated) bank account, it is likely you updated your direct deposit information after payroll was already closed for processing. If the bank account is no longer a valid account, the funds will be returned to Columbia. Once the funds are received by Columbia, they will be redeposited using the updated banking information you have entered. Go to My.Columbia to view and/or update your HR data. How can I update my personal information (mailing address, marital status, education, etc.)? Ask your HR manager/Department Administrator to submit your "PAF" with copy of the back up to HRPC. How do I verify employment? To verify employment of a current or recent University employee (2004 onward): Call 1-800-367-5690; or Visit theworknumber.com (Employer Code: 1259) Learn more Contact us or submit a ticket Submit a ticket to the HR Service Center: Faculty & Staff Visitors Phone: 212-851-2888 Office Hours: Monday, Tuesday and Thursday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Wednesday 9:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. HRSC representatives are available to help you. HR Service Center COVID-19 Resources: Faculty & Staff Information HR Manager/Remote Working Expand all Collapse all Health Coverage, Leaves, Tuition, Retirement & Savings Accounts: I have questions about... Medical, dental, vision or prescription drug benefits Benefits during leaves of absence Retirement and/or retiree insurance Retirement savings accounts (TIAA or Vanguard) Tax savings accounts (FSAs, HSA, Transit/Parking Reimbursement) Tuition Well-being and life status changes Frequently Asked Questions The following are answers to the most common questions. See the Full List of Benefits FAQs. What retirement benefits do I have? Columbia University offers retirement planning and financial savings programs to help you plan for your future. Available programs may vary according to your employment group. Visit Retirement for more details Where's my health plan card? UHC ID cards have member information for medical, vision, and prescription drug coverage. You do not need separate cards for each benefit. After enrolling in a medical plan, it can take three weeks for a UHC ID card to arrive in your mail. If necessary, you can print a temporary UHC ID card two weeks after enrolling. Create an account on myuhc.com to print a temporary ID card. Use your Social Security Number, date of birth, and Group number 712790. How can I use my FSA funds? Dependent Care FSA funds can pay for eligible dependent day care expenses. Healthcare FSA funds can pay for eligible healthcare expenses. Learn more about FSAs Unless you opt out on MyUHC, amounts you owe for medical, vision, prescription drug and/or dental claims under the Columbia-provided plans will automatically deduct from your Healthcare FSA. After enrolling in an FSA, check the mail for a Health Care Spending Card (a debit card with a declining balance equal to your annualized contribution). This card is linked to your Healthcare and/or Dependent Care FSA accounts. It can be used at participating providers. If you do not use the card, you may submit a claim directly to UHC. You will receive a check at your home mailing address, or you can sign up for direct deposit. How does that Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program work? A monthly dollar amount of your choice, up to the annual IRS limit, is deducted pre-tax from your pay. Learn more about Transit/Parking Reimbursement Contact us Benefits Service Center Telephone: 212-851-7000 Secure Fax: 212-851-7025 Email: [email protected] Hours of Operation: Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Mailing Address: 615 West 131 Street, mail code 8703 Studebaker 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 BSC staff are available to help you. Benefits Service Center COVID-19 Resources: Healthcare benefits & COVID-19 FAQs Faculty & Staff information Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close