Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Human Resource Management Empowering a Community of Excellence Search form Search Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Menu Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs HRM CMS Documentation Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Search Search form Search Home Benefits Health Employee Health Insurance Employee Health Insurance The University of Kansas offers benefits eligible employees a comprehensive health insurance package that includes medical and prescription drug coverage, dental and vision coverage, an Voluntary Insurance Plans (Accident, Hospital Indemnity and Critical Illness). Complete information can be found at the State Employee Health Plan website. Eligibility All benefits eligible faculty and staff are eligible for employee health insurance. Cost KU contributes toward your semi-monthly health premiums. Your health insurance premiums are paid either pre-tax or post-tax and the total premium amount is determined based on the following: Whether you are a full-time or part-time employee The insurance plan(s) you select The dependents that are covered Any available credit under the HealthQuest Rewards Program Plan Detail To view current plan and premium information, please refer to the 2022 Enrollment Guide. Complete 2022 information can be found at the 2022 Enrollment Resourses on the State Employee Health Plan website Dependents Eligible To Be Covered Your lawful spouse, including common-law marriage Any eligible dependent child(ren) For additional information, as well as documentation requirements, please see the Active State Employee Guidebook located on the State Employee Health Plan website. Effective Date of Coverage For new employees hired on or after 01/03/2022, coverage begins on the date of hire. Enrollment is required within the first 31 days after the hire date. Enrolling as soon as possible will ensure your deductions to begin timely. Employees newly eligible for coverage, due to a change in employment status, coverage will begin the first of the month following the employement change. Employees are encourage to enroll as soon after hire as possible. This will assist in getting insurance cards to the employee in a timely manner and premiums being deducted timely. Enrollment Your enrollment in the health plan is voluntary. To enroll in the State Employee Health Program, you will access the secure Membership Administration Portal (MAP). Select your Regent University (University of Kansas) and you will be taken to your login screen. To sign into MAP, you will use your KU online ID and password, the same credentials you use to log into your work computer. Once in your Member Portal, go to "Enrollment & Events" tab and click in "Launch Enrollment". If you can't login, open link with a different browser (Copy and paste link: https://sso.cobraguard.net/seer_login.php ). If you are still experiencing issue, visit assistance section below. If you experience issues logging into MAP We strongly recommend you use a KU workstation or campus computer lab to enroll during Initial Enrollment to ensure you are using a compatible browser that is properly configured. If you experience issues logging in, first try opening link with different browser (Copy and paste link: https://sso.cobraguard.net/seer_login.php ). If this does not work, clear your browser’s cache. Clearing cache and cookies Please note: for all PC browsers, just hold Ctrl+Shift+Del. On a Mac, it's Shift+Command+Delete. After going through the process of clearing cache and cookies, you may need to restart your browser for the changes to take effect. Firefox Chrome Safari Internet Explorer If you need additional help or have questions, contact your IT support staff, or the KU IT Customer Service Center at 785-864-8080 or itcsc@ku.edu. In-person support is available at the Price Computing Center located at 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Go to rockcha.lk/ITCSChours for support hours. Additional Information Please visit Prepaid Summer Benefits and Coverage for Faculty and Staff to learn how summer benefit deductions will be taken for academic year faculty/academic staff who hold full academic year or spring semester regular appointments and who have an ongoing commitment for the upcoming fall semester. Benefits Affected by Out of Area Leaves and Sabbatical - Faculty and staff who leave the area for an extended period of time—on sabbatical, leave without pay, working overseas for the summer or other reasons—and who have concerns about their benefits should contact the Benefits Office at (785) 864-7402 or benefits@ku.edu To take any of the following actions, you will need to log in to MAP and access the necessary Forms under "Account Overview" and the "Forms" tab. If you have questions or need assistance, contact Benefits at (785) 864-7402 or benefits@ku.edu. The advance purchase of prescription drugs is authorized in certain circumstances and the RX State Advance Purchase Form must be completed and faxed back to Benefits at least 20 calendar days before the employee’s departure outside of the U.S. Employees and covered spouses who turn age 65 will need to complete the “TEFRA” Form in MAP to indicate the election to either i) remain in the SEHP or ii) to enroll in Medicare Parts A and B and drop the SEHP. To request consideration of covering a common-law spouse as a dependent (husband or wife) on your health insurance plan, you will need to complete the Common Law Marriage Form and upload supporting documentation in MAP. To communicate concerns, suggestions or requests concerning the SEHP, log into MAP and, under Account Overview, Mid-Year Benefits Changes Tab, click on Start a New Request and select the Communication Form. Note: Employees who are newly eligible for benefit plans offered by the State Employee Health Plan (SEHP), or who make changes in coverage because of life events, may see a delay from the time they enroll or initiate a change in MAP to when the premium is deduced from their paychecks. Premium changes will be reflected on paychecks after the SEHP processes the enrollment or change and sends that information to KU. As employees generally have 30 days in which to initially enroll or to request a change because of a life event, the premium change could be retroactive and result in multiple premiums deducted from a paycheck. If the retroactive premium adjustment will be greater than $500, the Benefits Office will send an email to inform you. To minimize retroactive premium deductions, you are encouraged to enroll or make mid-year changes as early in the 30 day period as possible. Related Documents & Forms Advance Prescription Drug Purchase (pdf) » Health Care Selection Form (TEFRA) (pdf) » MAP Initial Enrollment Instructions (pdf) Open Enrollment 2022 (document) Need Help? Ask Us! Submit an Inquiry Membership Administration Portal (MAP) Quick Links Apply For A Job Benefits Health Insurance Hiring Process Holidays HR/Pay Login New Employee Packet Search Committee Login Tuition Assistance Vacation Leave Search for HRM Policies Search for Policies and Forms Visit the Policy Office for more information. HRM Calendars HR Pay Donate to Staff Emergency Assistance Fund KU Today 2022 Plan Rates & Comparison Chart Contact Human Resource Management hrdept@ku.edu 785-864-4946 Department of Human Resource Management University of Kansas Carruth O'Leary Hall, Room 103 1246 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045-7521 HR Intranet Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login