Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Travel with Help from Your Columbia Benefits Travel with Help from Your Columbia Benefits This month we’re talking about ways your benefits can help you plan for vacations, stay-cations and business trips so you can leave your worries behind. Your benefits can take some of the stress out of travel. Check out the coverage and discounts that can support you while you plan your next trip, and when you get there. Did You Know? U.S. citizens made 41,773,808 international trips in 2018, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration, National Travel and Tourism Office (NTTO) Expand all Collapse all Travel Assistance Planning A Trip? Ways your Columbia benefits can help you plan: Save Money Go to the Discounts and Perks page; select “Shopping and Entertainment Discounts” from the drop-down menu for savings on hotels, shows, rental cars and more. The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) gives you access to a variety of discounts through SpendLess. Surf the website for opportunities to save on local and destination adventures, including hotels and how to find cheap gas prices. Register to Spend Less: Go to Humana’s website (Username “Columbia”; password “eap”). Click the “What’s On Your Mind” tab Select “Daily Living” from the drop-down menu Click the “Discount Center” link in the right-hand column Prepare for Travel Cigna Secure Travel is available to all employees enrolled in Cigna Life Insurance. Use the checklist to see immunization, visa and passport requirements. Review the resources for helpful embassy referrals, travel advisories and cultural information. The EAP offers information to help you plan and pack for your trip. If your travel requires vaccinations, your Columbia medical plan will cover them (your deductible and coinsurance will apply)—contact UHC with questions. To find out your current coverage elections for benefits such as life insurance, visit CUBES. Already at Your Destination? Your Columbia benefits can offer support during travel, in case you need it: Coverage for emergency medical services. All faculty and staff enrolled in a Columbia-provided medical plan are covered for emergency services while traveling outside of the US—contact UHC for details. Travel and emergency assistance services. Cigna Secure Travel (available to those enrolled in Cigna Life Insurance) also provides interpretation and translation referrals, physician, medical center, dentist and legal services provider referrals, assistance with lost/stolen luggage, prescription replacement and more. Learn more. Columbia Business Travel If you’re traveling internationally on Columbia business, check out Columbia’s Global Travel website before you depart for information regarding travel alerts, logistics, and other resources for international travelers, including the many services available when traveling for University-related business. Additionally, Officers of Administration and support staff must complete certain requirements before departure, such as registering their Columbia-related travel (also highly recommended for faculty and researchers). If you have questions, email [email protected]. Resources: Columbia Global Travel International SOS ISOS MyTrips Go to the University's Finance Gateway Global Support International Travel Guide and the CUIT International Mobile Services page for mobile device plans. Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close