Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Discover Your Employee Assistance Program Discover Your Employee Assistance Program Managing the demands of work and home is more challenging than ever. The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) can help you manage life's day-to-day stresses. From legal services to pet care, counseling services and life coaches—the EAP is tailored to meet the unique needs of you and your household members. Expand all Collapse all EAP Highlights Programs & On-call Specialists Connect with the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Call an EAP specialist 24/7 at 1-888-673-1153 (TTY: 711) who will help you with… Confidential counseling. Don’t suffer in silence. Receive up to three free counseling sessions over the phone from licensed Master’s or Ph.D.-level mental health and substance abuse professionals for stress, anxiety, relationships and other issues. Work-Life Balance. Consider asking the EAP for research and referrals for child care, adult/elder care, travel, pet care, movers, restaurants and more. Identity protection. The EAP offers an ID Theft Emergency Response kit, as well as a 60-minute consultation with an expert fraud resolution specialist who can help you reclaim your identity, dispute fraudulent activity and take steps to restore your credit. Financial and legal services. Beginning January 1, 2019, take advantage of free 30-minute consultations with attorneys, CPAs, mediators and financial counselors. If you decide to use their services after the initial call, you’ll get a 25% discount.* *Legal services provided by Humana, the University's EAP provider. Life Coach Speak with a LifeCoach at 1-855-290-2655 for help achieving work-life balance, managing your finances, adopting healthy habits, getting organized and more. Unlimited coaching sessions are available via phone, email or online chat. Coaches are available for scheduled appointments Monday through Friday, from 8:00 a.m.to 8:00 p.m. EAP Website EAP website: View a wide range of information on topics such as low-maintenance investing, relaxation techniques, bicycle safety, strengthening family bonds, Empty Nest Syndrome and pet health. You will need to log in with: Website: humana.com/eap Username: columbia Password: eap Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close