Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Main College College News About the Center Letter from the Director History of the Center Faculty Advisory Board Faculty Affiliates Staff Contact Information Calendar Event Calendar Faculty Funding Graduate Funding Public Programs Stanford Distinguished Professors Conferences & Symposia Lectures Edith Bleich Speaker Series Rosenstiel Program in Polish Heritage Book Talks Humanities at Home Humanities Hour Academic Programs Faculty and Dissertation Fellows David John Ruggiero Award Interdisciplinary Research Groups Seminars & Workshops Medieval and Early Modern Studies Concentration Ethics and Medical Humanities Pathway Inquiring Minds Publications Annual Reports Early Modern Women Contact Us About the Center Calendar Public Programs Academic Programs Publications Contact Us Search Event Calendar Past Events Faculty Grants Graduate Grants About the Center Letter from the Director History of the Center Faculty Advisory Board Faculty Affiliates Staff Contact Information Calendar Event Calendar Faculty Funding Graduate Funding Public Programs Stanford Distinguished Professors Conferences & Symposia Lectures Edith Bleich Speaker Series Rosenstiel Program in Polish Heritage Book Talks Humanities at Home Humanities Hour Academic Programs Faculty and Dissertation Fellows David John Ruggiero Award Interdisciplinary Research Groups Seminars & Workshops Medieval and Early Modern Studies Concentration Ethics and Medical Humanities Pathway Inquiring Minds Publications Annual Reports Early Modern Women Contact Us More Sites Main College College News Event Calendar Past Events Faculty Grants Graduate Grants About the Center Calendar Public Programs Academic Programs Publications Contact Us Home Event Calendar Event Calendar AAA Event Calendar Event Calendar Past Events Faculty Grants Graduate Grants The Center for the Humanities is proud to support a variety of events for the University of Miami and South Florida community. In addition to our own signature events such as the Stanford lecture series and Book Talks, you will find information on campus and Miami-area events that the Center is pleased to promote. Open All Tabs AUGUST 2021 Welcome back, 'Canes! SEPTEMBER 2021 Tuesday, September 14 @ 7:00 pm Humanities Hour Latine Off-Off-Broadway: An Intervention in US Theater History Lillian Manzor, Associate Professor, Modern Languages and Literatures Full description here! Access recording here! Friday, September 17, 9:00 am - 2:30 pm Faculty Fellows Symposium Full description here! Wednesday, September 29, 8:00 pm Book Talk Power and Pleasure: Court Life Under King John, 1119-1216 Hugh Thomas, Professor, History Full description here! Access recording here! OCTOBER 2021 Thursday, October 7, 7:00 pm Stanford Distinguished Professors Series An Evening with Critically Acclaimed Author Valeria Luiselli Full description here! Wednesday, October 13, 8:00 pm Book Talk The Origins of Early Christian Literature: Contextualizing the New Testament within Greco-Roman Literary Culture Robyn Walsh, Associate Professor, Religious Studies Full description here! Thursday, October 21, 5:00 pm Lecture Revision: The Only Writing that Counts William Germano Full description here! Friday, October 22, 12:30 - 2:30 pm Workshop Revising the Dissertation, Finishing the Book: a working seminar on scholarly writing William Germano Full description here! Thursday, October 27, 8:00 pm Book Talk Urban Ecology and Intervention in the 21st Century Americas: Verticality, Catastrophe, and the Mediated City Allison Schifani, Assistant Professor, Modern Languages and Literatures Full description here! NOVEMBER 2021 Thursday, November 10, 8:00 pm Training for Catastrophe: Fictions of National Security after 9/11 Lindsay Thomas, Assistant Professor, English Full description here! Tuesday, November 16, 6:00 - 7:30 pm Professional Development: Expanding Career Opportunities for Ph.D. Students Christina Larson, Ph.D., Assistant Director, Center for the Humanities; Roxane Pickens, Ph.,D., Director, Learning Commons, UM Libraries; and Director, American Studies Program, College of Arts and Sciences; Maryann Tobin, Ph.D., Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences Full description here! Thursday, November 18, 5:30 pm Lecture Re-Viewing American Impressionism: Images of the Changing Landscape Keidra Daniels Navaroli (McKnight Ph.D. Fellow, University of Central Florida) and Keri Watson, Ph.D. (Associate Professor, University of Central Florida) Co-organized by the Lowe Art Museum and the Center for the Humanities Full description here! DECEMBER 2021 Wednesday, December 1, 8:00 pm Book Talk Queering and Querying the Paradise of Paradox: LGBT Language, New Media, and Visual Cultures in Modern-Day Brazil Steven Butterman, Associate Professor, Modern Languages and Literatures Full description here! JANUARY 2022 Wednesday, January 26, 8:00 pm Book Talk The Fiume Crisis: Life in the Wake of the Habsburg Empire Dominique Reill, Associate Professor, History Full description here! FEBRUARY 2022 Thursday, February 3, 7:00 pm Henry King Stanford Distinguished Professors: Lecture Daphne A. Brooks, "Blackface Broken Records: White Women, 'Black' Sounds & the Rise of Radical Blues Women" Full description here! Friday, February 4, 12:30 - 2:00 pm Henry King Stanford Distinguished Professors: Virtual Seminar Daphne A. Brooks, "'Twice Militant' Friendships: Nina Simone, Lorraine Hansberry & James Baldwin" Open only to University of Miami Faculty and Students Full description here! Wednesday, February 9, 8:00 pm Book Talk Opposing the Imam: The Legacy of the Nawasib in Islamic Literature Nebil Husayn, Assistant Professor, Religious Studies Full description here! Friday, February 25, 12:30 - 2:00 pm Virtual Workshop "Applying for ACLS Fellowships and Grants in the Humanities and Social Sciences" John Paul Christy, Senior Director, American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS) Full description here! MARCH 2022 Thursday, March 3, 7:00 pm Henry King Stanford Distinguished Professors: Lecture John McNeill, "Ingredients of Industrialization: Ecological Teleconnections and Global Environmental History" Full description here! Tuesday, March 8, 7:00 pm Lecture / Teach-in Krista Goff, Gabrielle Cornish, and Dina Moulioukova, "Teach-in on the Invasion of Ukraine" Full description here! Wednesday, March 9, 8:00 pm Book Talk Nathaniel Deyo, Film Noir and the Possibilities of Hollywood Full description here! Wednesday, March 23, 8:00 pm Book Talk Rethinking the Romantic Era: Androgynous Subjectivity and the Recreative in the Writings of Mary Robinson, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, and Mary Shelley Kathryn Freeman, Associate Professor, English Full description here! APRIL 2022 Thursday, April 7, 7:00 pm Henry King Stanford Distinguished Professors: Lecture Stephanie Burt, "Does Poetry have a Future?" Full description here! Wednesday, April 13, 8:00 pm Book Talk Love and Sex in the Time of Plague Guido Ruggiero, Professor, History; and Cooper Fellow, College of Arts and Sciences Full description here! MAY 2022 Wednesday, May 4, 8:00 pm Book Talk Travel Narratives of the irish Famine: Politics, Tourism, and Scandal, 1845-1853 Catherine Judd, Associate Professor, English Full description here! Do you have an event you'd like to advertise here? For our partners in the humanities, we are happy to help promote events designed to celebrate and support work in the humanities disciplines. If your organization is hosting an event with a strong connection to the humanities (including but not limited to fields such as History, English, Philosophy, Classics, Religious Studies, Modern Languages, Art History, Theater Arts, Music, and Anthropology), we are happy to review submissions for our Calendar webpage. To submit an event, complete this form at least two week's prior to the event. To be considered: Events must be open to all UM students, faculty and staff Events must take place in the South Florida area We especially encourage submissions for events that are free and open to the public Once you've completed the form, a representative from the Center for the Humanities will be in touch to confirm whether we are able to include your event on the Calendar webpage and to discuss further details as needed, such as the inclusion of a graphic or photo. Please contact us at humanities@miami.edu with questions. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Center for the Humanities Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices