Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Family Leave Family Leave The following is an overview on the types of leaves employees may use for family-related reasons. Expand all Collapse all Leaves of Absences for Family Leave Parental Care, Adoption or Infant Care Parental Care, Adoption, or Infant Care leaves are leaves of absences available following the birth, adoption, or fostering of a child. This leave is available to the biological parents, parents of legally adopted or foster children and others in parental care relationships, to take care of a child. This leave may be taken for a set period of time (e.g., six weeks), as a reduced schedule (e.g., only working 28 hours per week) or intermittently (sporadic absences). Learn more Care for a Sick Family Member Employee's may take a leave of absence to help care for a sick family member who is ill or injured. A leave of absence to care for a sick family member may be taken for a set period of time (e.g., six weeks), as a reduced schedule (e.g., only working 28 hours per week) or intermittently (sporadic absences). Learn more Military/Caregiver Leave A Military/Caregiver leave is a leave of absence to care for a family member who is a current service member or veteran with a serious injury or illness. This leave may be taken for a set period of time (e.g. six weeks), as a reduced schedule (e.g. only working 28 hours per week) or intermittently (sporadic absences). Learn more Military/Exigency Leave A Military/Exigency leave is a leave of absence for any qualifying exigency arising when a family member is deployed abroad on active military service. Learn more Personal Leave A personal leave is an unpaid leave of absence for personal reasons and is generally used in situations not covered by other types of University or federal/state/local laws or additional time provided beyond federal/state/local laws. Typical reasons for granting personal leave include: illness in the family, education or other compelling personal need. Learn more Important Notice The Leaves of Absence section is intended only to provide information and guidance to departments for processing leaves for Columbia University Officers, staff and union employees. The writers of the content have exercised their best efforts to ensure accuracy of the information, but accuracy is not guaranteed. If there are any discrepancies between the information on the website, verbal representations and the Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBAs) or applicable University policies, the CBAs and applicable policies will always govern. The information is subject to change from time to time. The information contained on the website is intended to provide examples and does not replace the CBAs or University policies. HR Manager Toolkit Managing Leaves of Absence Employee Leave Family Leave Parental Care, Adoption, Infant Care Care for a Sick Family Member Military/Caregiver Leave Military/Exigency Leave Personal Leave Faculty (Non-Academic) Leave Processing Leaves FAQs Leaves Policies Leave Management Office 615 West 131st Street, MC 8703 Studebaker 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 Telephone: 212-851-0698 Fax: 212-851-7069 Email: [email protected] Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close