Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Health & Welfare Local 2110 - Health & Welfare Local 2110 - Prescription Drug Coverage Local 2110 - Prescription Drug Coverage When you enroll in any Columbia University medical plan, you are automatically enrolled in the Prescription Drug plan, administered by OptumRx. To find participating pharmacies or enroll in the OptumRx mail-order program, log in to myuhc.com and choose “Manage Your Prescriptions" or call 800-232-9357 for assistance. Expand all Collapse all Using Your Benefit Prescription Drug Costs The cost of your prescriptions depends on a number of factors, including whether you buy your medication through a retail pharmacy or through the mail-order program and whether the drug is generic, single-source or multi-source. Copays All prescription drugs are subject to a copay, and that copay accumulates to your out-of-pocket maximum. Prescription Drug Copays Retail Pharmacy (up to 30-day supply) • $10 generic • $25 single-source • $45 multi-source Mail-order (up to 90-day supply) • $15 generic • $50 single-source • $90 multi-source After you reach the annual out-of-pocket maximum, the plans pay 100% of the cost of prescription drugs. Is a Drug "Single-Source" or "Multi-Source"? If no generic is available, it is a single-source drug. If both a generic and brand name prescription are available, it is a multi-source drug. To find out if a drug is single-source or multi-source, ask your pharmacist, call OptumRx: 800-232-9357 or log in to myuhc.com; choose "MANAGE YOUR PRESCRIPTIONS." Due to periodic reviews by OptumRx, or if the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approves a generic-equivalent drug, prescriptions may move from single-source to multi-source during the year. Retail You need to present your UHC ID card the first time you fill a prescription. You can have up to a 30-day supply of your prescription when filled at a retail pharmacy. In New York, New Jersey and other states, a pharmacy is required by law to substitute a brand name drug with a generic. Your copay is $10 or the cost of the generic drug, whichever is less. If no generic is available for your prescription, your drug is “single-source” and you will pay $25. Mail-Order Using the prescription drug mail-order program, you can order up to a 90-day supply. Recommended for people who use medication on a regular basis, mail-order should be less expensive than retail pharmacies and offers easy refill—online or by phone. To enroll, log in to myuhc.com and choose "Manage Your Prescriptions" then "Order Prescriptions" or call 800-232-9357 for assistance. Specialty Medications Specialty medications must be purchased via mail-order from Optum Specialty Pharmacy. Optum Specialty Pharmacy will mail your prescription in an unlabeled package to you at the address of your choice. Call 855-427-4682 to speak to a patient care representative to get started. Typically, you will receive a 30-day supply of the prescription at the retail pharmacy copay. If you use any pharmacy other than Optum Specialty Pharmacy, you will be subject to the full cost of the medication, not a copay. Online Store Select hundreds of health products online at the Optum Store. Regardless of medical plan enrollment, you may use your Flexible Spending Account (FSA) and Health Savings Account (HSA) benefit. The online store carries over-the-counter medications and physical health products, including: Cold, allergy and sinus Feminine care and family planning Baby and childcare Diagnostic test kits High-tech health devices Have questions? FAQs have you covered. New for 2022: IPC Copay Assistance Program Effective January 1, 2022, Columbia University partnered with the IPC Copay Assistance Program administered by PillarRx to reduce your costs for certain eligible high-cost medications that you may be taking to manage your health. This is a confidential program managed directly by PillarRx. Learn more about the IPC Copay Assistance Program ID Card UHC ID cards have member information for medical, vision, and prescription drug coverage. You do not need separate cards for each benefit. After enrolling in a medical plan, it can take three weeks for a UHC ID card to arrive in your mail. If necessary, you can print a temporary UHC ID card two weeks after enrolling. Create an account on myuhc.com to print a temporary ID card. Use your Social Security Number, date of birth, and Group number 712790. Health & Welfare Benefits Local 2110 - Health & Welfare Eligibility Dependent Eligibility Medical Dental Vision Prescription Drug Tax Savings Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program Life Insurance Accidental Death & Dismemberment Voluntary Benefits Well-being Related Documents OptumRx Managing Your Medications Online OptumRx Reimbursement Pharmacy Form OptumRx Home Delivery OptumRx Opioid Safety Safely Dispose of Unused Medication UHC Optum Rx Prescription Drug Plan Covered Preventive Medications List Covered Prescription Medication Formulary Benefits Tools CUBES Making Changes to Your Benefits Vendor Contacts FAQs - Benefits Glossary What Is My Employment Group? Benefits Policies Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close