Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Events How to Meet Personal Wellness Goals Events Past Event How to Meet Personal Wellness Goals Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo December 20, 2018 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM Studebaker building, 622 W. 132 St., New York, NY 10027 - Conference Room 469 The holiday season is the perfect time to throw wellness goals out the window. But there’s no reason to start the new year completely off track. We all know we shouldn’t smoke, eat too much junk food or stay on the couch all day. Making behavioral changes, however, is never easy, especially for the long-term. Want to set, maintain and reach wellness goals? Join us for Meeting Your Personal Wellness Goals, an EAP seminar designed to help you stay on track. After participating in this seminar, you will be better able to: Understand the nature of change Identify primary barriers to making healthy lifestyle changes Utilize tools that have proved useful to others To RSVP to the seminar, please email Lucia Leon: [email protected]. Can’t attend in person? Try these 3 Tips for Setting and Reaching Wellness Goals: Set a specific goal. Make your goal specific, measurable, and reachable. Try to change only one habit at a time. Visit Columbia's Well-being website to learn about the EAP and other resources. And check out Humana’s Columbia-specific website for more, such as the Checklist for making a lifestyle change and Longevity and the power of a healthy lifestyle. If prompted, log in (Username: Columbia; Password: eap). Upcoming Events Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close