Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Take a Leave of Absence Take a Leave of Absence The University provides various types of leaves of absence for you to use should you need to leave work — from having a baby, to caring for a loved one, to serving in the military, to recovering from an injury or illness. In all cases, you will need to seek prior approval of the leave from your supervisor and submit required paperwork and documentation. As part of this transition, Cigna has changed its name to New York Life Group Benefit Solutions. The transition does not impact your current coverage or access. Expand all Collapse all Overview Leave for Yourself Leaves of absences for yourself are granted for the following reasons: Personal medical condition (not work-related) Pregnancy-related Work-related illness or injury (Workers' Compensation) Long-term disability Personal reasons Military duty Learn More Leave to Care for Others A leave to care for others is granted for the following reasons: Care for a family member with a serious health condition (including service member/veteran) Tend to family obligations while a family member is called to active duty Learn More Maternity & Family Leave Pregnancy-related Leave is considered a Medical Leave. For parental, childcare, infant care, elder care, or other personal family-related leave, see Maternity and Family Leave. Benefits While on Leave You may continue your benefits if on an approved leave of absence, depending on whether it's under or over 6 months, or a long-term disability. Learn more Workplace Accommodations If you have a need resulting from a permanent or temporary medical condition, the CUHR Leave Management Office can assist in understanding leaves policies, coordinating arrangement for your time away from the office, and ease you back into work after an extended absence. Learn More Voluntary Furlough In response to the economic toll the COVID-19 pandemic has taken, Columbia University is offering certain employees the option to take a full or partial unpaid furlough. Voluntary Furlough Application Voluntary Furlough Policy Leave Policies The University Policies catalog is your resource for all official policies related to time away from work -- from maternity leave to jury duty to bereavement pay. Go to Policies Faculty Leave Information and policies on leave for faculty is available on the Columbia Faculty handbook. Learn more Expand all Collapse all Important Notices Disclaimer The Leaves of Absence section is intended only to provide information and guidance for processing leaves for Columbia University Officers, staff and union employees. The writers of the content have exercised their best efforts to ensure accuracy of the information, but accuracy is not guaranteed. If there are any discrepancies between the information on the website, verbal representations and the Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBAs) or applicable University policies, the CBAs and applicable policies will always govern. The information is subject to change from time to time. The information contained on the website is intended to provide examples and does not replace the CBAs or University policies. Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) In addition to FMLA, other University policies and laws, if eligible, will run concurrently, including NY Safe and Sick Leave and all applicable State/City/County Laws. FMLA does not supersede any University policy or collective bargaining agreement that provides greater family or medical leave rights than the rights established under FMLA. Conversely, FMLA provides that the rights established for employees under FMLA cannot be diminished by any policy or agreement. The leave granted under FMLA generally is a lesser benefit than that available under various University policies and collective bargaining agreements. Because the University meets or exceeds FMLA requirements in many respects, this policy designates many existing types of leave as FMLA leave, so that the University leaves and the FMLA leave run concurrently. Because the University meets or exceeds FMLA requirements in many respects, this policy designates many existing types of leave as FMLA leave, so that the University leaves and the FMLA leave run concurrently. Workplace Essentials Take a Leave of Absence Leave for Yourself Leave to Care for Others Maternity and Family Leave Benefits While on Leave Request Workplace Accommodations Leave Policies Faculty Leave HR Manager Leaves Toolkit Leave Management Office 615 West 131st Street, MC 8703 Studebaker 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 Telephone: 212-851-0698 Fax: 212-851-7069 Email: [email protected] Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close