Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Events Happiness Boosters! Events Past Event Happiness Boosters! Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo February 26, 2019 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM Jerome L. Green Science Center, 3227 Broadway, 3rd Floor, Room L3-079 Beat the winter blues! Join us for Happiness Boosters, a one-hour EAP seminar designed to help you learn some simple and effective ways to beat gloomy days and moods through laughter, nutrition, creativity and other non-prescription methods. After participating in this seminar, you will be better able to: Understand factors that affect moods Assess how current activities, habits and behaviors either fuel or suppress happiness Build “happiness boosters” into everyday life To RSVP to the seminar, please email Lucia Leon by February 19, 2019: [email protected]. Participants must show ID at front desk security to attend the event. Can’t attend in person? Try these... 3 tips for improving your mood: Smile Smiling triggers changes in the body that can improve your mood almost instantly. The amazing part? This works even if you smile for no reason at all! Be Here Now Focus on the present moment and the task at hand. Allowing your mind to wander can make you feel lousy! Move It A quick walk, jog, or run is a free and natural happiness booster. Exercise stimulates the release of endorphins. Visit Columbia's Well-being website to learn about the EAP and other resources. And check out Humana's Columbia-specific website for more, such as Make Time for Me Time and A Pet is Good for Your Heart. If prompted, log in (Username: Columbia; Password: eap). Coming up in March: The Rest Of Your Life, a seminar that’s all about sleep. Invite to follow. Is there a topic you’d like to see in a future EAP seminar or communication? We'd love to hear it. Email Lucia Leon: [email protected]; subject line: Topic Ideas. Thanks. Upcoming Events Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close