Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Human Resource Management Empowering a Community of Excellence Search form Search Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Menu Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs HRM CMS Documentation Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Search Search form Search Home About What We Do What We Do Human Resource Management (HRM) is responsible for providing a comprehensive range of services that improve the lives of those who work, learn, and visit the University of Kansas. Our department's mission is to empower a community of excellence. The department is an administrative unit under the Office of the Provost. HRM is led by Mike Rounds, Vice Provost for Operations, and is comprised of the following units: ADA Resources Center for Equity and Accessibility The ADA Resources Center for Equity and Accessibility is responsible for promoting an accessible and inclusive campus. Responsibilities include providing accessibility-related training and technical assistance to campus units, collaborating with KU units to provide accommodations for faculty and staff, coordinating accessibility compliance functions, fostering student advocacy for campus-wide accessibility, and creating opportunities to learn more about KU’s disability demographic profiles. Business Analysis Support Business Analysis Support provides analytical support and guidance to HRM leadership and University partners and offers comprehensive and authoritative information for strategic planning and decision making. Help Desk The HRM Help Desk provides first line support to the thousands of employees who work for the University. They manage HRM's customer service responsibilities and ensure customer inquiries are addressed efficiently and effectively. The unit also provides administrative support to HRM for a number of programs, e.g. the tuition assistance program. Human Resources Human Resources is responsible for supporting programs that enhance the personal and professional lives of KU faculty, staff, and student employees. The office is made up of three units: Benefits, Employment, and Employee Relations. Benefits The Benefits team is dedicated to assisting employees in making informed benefits decisions related to plans and programs offered by the University. Responsibility areas include retirement planning, employee and graduate student health insurance, life insurance, flexible spending accounts, disability insurance, and long term care insurance. Employment The Employment team supports staffing and position management needs for the KU community. Responsibility areas include job title administration, recruiting and onboarding, and appointment processing. Employee Relations The Employee Relations team works to partner with employees and managers to ensure that the University offers everyone a positive, constructive, and efficient work environment. Responsibility areas include labor relations, grievance resolution, workplace violence matters, counseling and disciplinary action, exit interviews, and performance management. HR Information Systems HR Information Systems is responsible for supporting the overall operation of HR systems (other than HR/Pay), including implementation, security, reporting, training, development, end-user support, and overall administration. HR/Pay Administration The HR/Pay team is responsible for supporting the overall operation of the HR/Pay system, including security, reporting, training, development, end-user support, and overall administration. Institutional Opportunity and Access (IOA) The Office of Institutional Opportunity and Access (IOA) has an institutional responsibility to enhance and strengthen diversity and inclusion at the University. The office provides training for employees on anti-discrimination laws and policies, investigates discrimination and harassment complaints, and has the responsibility of approving the direct hire process and waiver of searches for University employees. Learning and Development The Office of Learning and Development provides training and professional development programs for university employees, including coordinating and providing training and development courses, supporting organizational development needs, facilitating teambuilding activities, and delivering leadership and performance coaching programs. Need Help? Ask Us! Submit an Inquiry Quick Links Apply For A Job Benefits Health Insurance Hiring Process Holidays HR/Pay Login New Employee Packet Search Committee Login Tuition Assistance Vacation Leave Search for HRM Policies Search for Policies and Forms Visit the Policy Office for more information. HRM Calendars HR Pay Donate to Staff Emergency Assistance Fund KU Today 2022 Plan Rates & Comparison Chart Contact Human Resource Management hrdept@ku.edu 785-864-4946 Department of Human Resource Management University of Kansas Carruth O'Leary Hall, Room 103 1246 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045-7521 HR Intranet Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login