Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Best in Flex Best in Flex Helping Employees Succeed in a Remote/Hybrid Work Environment The following information can serve as a catalyst to start conversations between key members of your team -- including senior leaders, managers, and individual contributors. The goal in implementing these ideas, is to help strengthen the Columbia culture, while building infrastructure to support all levels of employees, as we continue to move into a more flexible/hybrid future of work. These best practice ideas are particularly useful to support new hires and early career employees. Expand all Collapse all Common Issues Employees Encounter Fewer opportunities to get to know colleagues personally ISSUE Fewer opportunities to get to know colleagues personally POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Managers should try to start team meetings with a short icebreaker when possible. NOTES Icebreaker ideas: Name a hobby/talent Last thing you cooked Last book/article read for pleasure Highlight from the weekend Music you are currently enjoying Origin of your name ISSUE POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Organize voluntary social activities (not just cocktails) outside of work NOTES This could be done by a voluntary Social Committee and could include things like: Pottery Yoga Hiking Picnic Volunteering Museum trip ISSUE POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Have a “Spotlight on…” rotation where team members share a brief, personal intro to themselves (if comfortable). NOTES Create a schedule: weekly, monthly, etc. Should be a set of predetermined questions Individuals can respond in whatever way feels most comfortable: written, video or audio recording, etc. ISSUE POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Identify and create welcoming, open spaces for individuals to eat lunch together. NOTES ISSUE POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Use digital tools such as Slack, Teams, or Zoom to facilitate informal interactions. NOTES EX: Employ Slack’s Donut feature which randomly pairs members of the organization for 30 min coffee chats, an avenue for informal get-to know-you conversations. Expand all Collapse all Difficult to get quick feedback from “safe colleagues” (not manager) ISSUE Difficult to get quick feedback from “safe colleagues” (not manager) POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Establish and e-mail group, Slack, or Teams channel for target “peer” groups to ask questions, compare notes, share challenges. NOTES Ideas for configuration: Cohort of new employees (perhaps every 12 months) Cohort early career employees (first 1-3 years) Cohort of middle career employees or ones who have been in their job for 3-7 years) ISSUE POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Encourage voluntary monthly “new employee/early career” coffee chats for optional discussion/ periodic group reflection. NOTES Expand all Collapse all Difficult to get mentorship from more experienced staff ISSUE Difficult to get mentorship from more experienced staff POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Leadership should set an expectation that senior staff will make themselves available to junior staff for set mentoring opportunities. NOTES A way to execute: Ask all staff to block a set one-hour slot each month to be used for mentoring Anyone can book 20 minutes on anyone else’s calendar for general career chat, mentoring, “get-to-know you” conversation, etc. Note: this should be purely optional for junior staff “mentees” → i.e. the option is there (and expected of senior staff) for anyone who wants to take advantage, but not required for junior staff. ISSUE POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Explicitly pair new hires with two types of person for their first 6 months: Vertical Mentor: senior leadership in dept Horizontal Mentor: someone who is more established in the dept, with similar job functions, but not on the new hire’s direct team NOTES Require that they meet with each “mentor” at least 3 times over the course of 6 months. ISSUE POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Create a voluntary mentor/mentee match list and allow people to sign up. Rotate every 3-6 months. NOTES This could be interdepartmental or could be launched between several departments, schools, or administrative units. Expand all Collapse all Need for feedback and “on-the-job” learning ISSUE Need for feedback and “on-the-job” learning POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Formalize the expectation that managers should meet with direct reports for regular 1:1 meetings (minimum once per month, weekly is recommended for new hires). NOTES ISSUE POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS New hires should get 30 minute 1:1 meetings with all members of their immediate team and all dept managers to learn more about the functions of the office. NOTES Hiring manager should set this up for the new hire within their first 1-3 months on the job. ISSUE POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Slack/Team channels or e-mail lists for individual teams to facilitate communication. NOTES Not everyone will adopt an unfamiliar communication method, but it is helpful for those who do adopt to have an informal channel for quick questions in virtual work that feel too small for an email. To avoid “ghost channels” that end up unused/underused, start within a team or across an affinity group and expand out if useful. ISSUE POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS Form intradepartmental groups made up of individuals from different teams. The goal of this group is to allow all employees, and especially new hires, to have a safe space to ask questions and get feedback. NOTES These groups can be helpful if they include mixed levels of experience and diverse job functions to allow for broader information sharing. BACKGROUND This information is adapted from the work of employees in Columbia Technology Ventures (CTV), in December 2021, which was inspired by the NY Times article, Remote Work is Failing Young Employees. Orin Herskowitz asked his team in CTV to discuss the challenges they faced in onboarding, connecting to Columbia culture, and accessing mentorship opportunities in the context of their hybrid/remote work environment. The team articulated the set of issues listed in the chart, and proposed ways to address these challenges. Key to this approach was getting employee feedback and employee generated solutions. Another primary element of success is investment from leadership and top-level modeling in order to make these practices a part of school/unit/departmental culture. Adapted from work by: Orin Herskowitz Amelia Pacht Carter Schmitt Majd Shammout Alexander Turo Home Flexible/Hybrid Working 101 Manager Guidance Best in Flex Webinars & Trainings Commuting to Campus Technology Support Return to Campus Protocols Related Resources Flexible Work Arrangements Policy Remote Work Supplies and Minor Equipment Policy Sustainable Columbia Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close