Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Take a Leave of Absence Leave to Care for Others Leave to Care for Others You may need to take time off work to care for children, elderly parents, or others in your family or household. Columbia provides several types of family leaves that may be available to you, depending on your eligibility and particular needs. Expand all Collapse all Types of Leave Paid Family Leave (PFL) If you are eligible, PFL provides you with job-protected, partially paid leave up to 10 weeks in 2020 (no change from 2019) to care for a family member with a serious health condition. PFL is available to all employees who work in New York State and satisfy the following eligibility requirements: You have worked for at least 26 consecutive weeks, if regularly working 20 hours or more per week. You have been working less than 20 hours per week for at least 175 days. For more information on eligibility and benefits, visit: PFL Policy New York State Paid Family Leave website Steps to request Paid Family Leave (if eligible): Reach out to your Departmental HR contact to request PFL and determine whether you would like to use any paid time off while on leave. Contact Cigna at 888-842-4462, available from 8 a.m. – 8 p.m. EST, Monday to Friday. Complete all necessary paperwork as requested by Cigna. Cigna will inform you directly regarding the approval or denial of a PFL claim. All PFL payments will be made to you directly by Cigna unless you choose to use any of your paid time off. Note: If you are a member of the 1199 Clerical and Cafeteria Union, please contact the Benefit Fund’s Member Services to file a PFL claim. By Phone: 646-473-9200, 8 a.m. – 6 p.m. EST, Mon to Fri Online: www.1199SEIUBenefits.org Maritime Workers, Officers of Instruction and employees working out of state should contact the CUHR Leave Management Office. Reminder: NYS has very specific requirements and time limits to submit documentation, so please be sure to follow all directions as instructed by Cigna. Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) If you are eligible, FMLA provides you with job-protected, unpaid leave to care for a specified family member (spouse, child or parent) with a serious health condition. This leave can be taken for up to a total of 12 weeks during any rolling 12-month period. FMLA is available to you if you have been employed by the University for at least 12 months and have worked at least 1,250 hours during the previous rolling 12-month period. See the FMLA policy for more information. Steps to request Family and Medical Leave Act (if eligible) Your Departmental HR contact will complete and provide you the FMLA WH-381 Notice of Eligibility and Rights & Responsibilities form. Complete the FMLA WH-380F and/or and submit documentation confirming the family relationship to the CUHR Leave Management Office. The employee may provide either a simple statement or other documentation, such as the child’s birth certificate or a court document. It is the employee’s choice whether to provide a simple statement or other documentation. All documentation should be submitted to the CUHR Leave Management Office. If the leave of absence is unpaid (i.e. FMLA) or partially paid (i.e. PFL), substitution of paid time off is permitted by using vacation time, personal time and NYC Earned Safe/Sick Time, if applicable. Maternity Leave See Maternity and Family Leave Personal Leave A personal leave is an unpaid leave of absence for personal reasons that are not covered by other types of leaves offered by the University/State, or for additional time beyond the allowed time of a University permitted leave. Typical reasons include illness in the family, education, and other compelling personal needs. Steps to Request a Personal Leave (if eligible) For other types of leave which are neither PFL nor FMLA, eligible employees may consider requesting a personal leave of absence. An employee requesting Personal Leave must submit a written request to their supervisor and/or Departmental HR contact as far in advance as possible and indicate an anticipated return to work date. Useful Information Officers of Administration You are eligible to apply for an unpaid personal leave of absence. University policy allows you to take an unpaid leave for up to six-months. This type of leave is only granted in cases not covered by any other University policy, and requires the approval of both your department head and the Office of the Vice President for Human Resources. Occasionally, substitution of paid time off is permitted by using your vacation, personal, or NYC Earned Safe/Sick Time, if applicable. Twelve months of employment is required before you can apply for a personal leave. Non-Union Support Staff You are eligible to apply for an unpaid personal leave of absence. University policy allows you to take an unpaid leave for up to six-months. This type of leave is only granted in cases not covered by any other University policy, and requires the approval of both your department head and the Office of the Vice President for Human Resources. Occasionally, substitution of paid time off is permitted by using your vacation, personal, or NYC Earned Safe/Sick Time, if applicable. Twelve months of employment is required before you can apply for a personal leave. Union Support Staff Each Union’s Collective Bargaining agreement outlines the benefits available for personal leaves. A full description can be found in your union’s Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). Military Leave If you need to take a Military related leave, please consult with your HR Departmental contact or the CUHR Leave Management office to review your available leave options as FMLA and/or PFL may be available. Returning to Work Prior to returning to work, please reach out to the CUHR Leave Management Office as well as your Departmental HR contact to provide an update on your return to work. If you are on an approved Paid Family Leave, please contact Cigna. Cigna 1-888-842-4462 PO Box 29221 Phoenix, AZ 85038-9221 Telephone: (888) 842 4462 Fax: (800) 642-8553 Fax for extensions/updates: (866) 472-3221 Expand all Collapse all Important Notice Disclaimer The Leaves of Absence section is intended only to provide information and guidance for processing leaves for Columbia University Officers, staff and union employees. The writers of the content have exercised their best efforts to ensure accuracy of the information, but accuracy is not guaranteed. If there are any discrepancies between the information on the website, verbal representations and the Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBAs) or applicable University policies, the CBAs and applicable policies will always govern. The information is subject to change from time to time. The information contained on the website is intended to provide examples and does not replace the CBAs or University policies. Family and Medical Leave Act In addition to FMLA, other University policies and laws, if eligible, will run concurrently, including NY Safe and Sick Leave and all applicable State/City/County Laws. FMLA does not supersede any University policy or collective bargaining agreement that provides greater family or medical leave rights than the rights established under FMLA. Conversely, FMLA provides that the rights established for employees under FMLA cannot be diminished by any policy or agreement. The leave granted under FMLA generally is a lesser benefit than that available under various University policies and collective bargaining agreements. Because the University meets or exceeds FMLA requirements in many respects, this policy designates many existing types of leave as FMLA leave, so that the University leaves and the FMLA leave run concurrently. Workplace Essentials Take a Leave of Absence Leave for Yourself Leave to Care for Others Maternity and Family Leave Benefits While on Leave Request Workplace Accommodations Leave Policies Faculty Leave Related Documents PFL Information WH-381 FMLA Notice of Eligibility and Rights & Responsibilities WH-382 FMLA Designation Notice WH-380-F FMLA Certification of Health Care Provider Leave Management Office 615 West 131st Street, MC 8703 Studebaker 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 Telephone: 212-851-0698 Fax: 212-851-7069 Email: [email protected] Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close