Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Voluntary Benefits Voluntary Benefits Support your everyday needs and life events Voluntary Benefits fill gaps in insurance with special rates and options. Eligible employees can enroll whether covered for other benefits through the University or somewhere else. You can enroll in Auto, Home, Identity Theft and Pet insurance at any time. Unless you are a New Hire, you can only enroll in Accident, Critical Illness, Hospital Indemnity and Universal Life with long-term care insurance during specific Open Enrollment periods. If you have questions, call Farmington, the University’s Voluntary Benefits administrator (1-866-494-4498), Monday to Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Explore Voluntary Benefits Accident Auto Critical Illness Home Hospital Indemnity Identity Theft Protection Pet Universal Life Featured Video Pet Insurance Transcript Sometimes you need to say no to your pet. "No, Otis, no!" "Neh, eh, eh, eh, eh!" "No, no, no, no, no!" "Princess, no!" But never say no when it comes to their health. In the Nation, pets are part of the family. They do so much for us. So return the favor by staying healthy together. Because when pets are healthy, we're all happier. They keep our happy hormones up, and our stress levels down. At Nationwide, we aim to do the same. Making it as easy as possible for you to always say yes. Yes to helpful tips that keep you and your pet healthy and happy. Yes to straightforward coverage options and simple signup. Yes to always know when your pet will get the best health care available no matter what. So say yes! Voluntary Benefits Overview Voluntary Benefits Transcript Voluntary Benefits at Columbia University. Columbia cares because educating the next generation of leaders, thinkers and innovators needs people like you. So we've been listening, and we hear what you're asking for: Benefits to help you save money and take care of the people you love. That's why we're offering Voluntary Benefits to help you create the financial future you and your family deserve no matter what changes in your lives. If you prepare for the unexpected now, you'll be able to focus on recovering when the time comes, which can help you get back to normal faster. Secure what's important to you at an affordable cost, and you could avoid big headaches in the future: Accident Insurance, Auto Insurance, Critical Illness Insurance, Hospital Indemnity Insurance, Identity Theft Proection, and Universal Life Insurance with Long-Term Care. You can enroll online, speak to a specialist by phone (Call 866-494-4498) and get more information on the university's human resources website: humanresources.columbia.edu/voluntary-benefits. Protect yourself and your family and protect your future. My CU Benefits. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close