Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Welcome Student Casual Employees Student Casual Employees In order to begin working at a new job on campus, start by filling out all of the required verification and tax documents with your hiring department. If you are appointed as a Student Officer (e.g., Teaching Assistant, Graduate Research Assistant), please contact your Departmental Administrator for relevant information. Expand all Collapse all On or Before Your First Day Introductions & Complete Paper Work Introduce yourself to the departmental administrator You need to make sure the department administrator or human resources representative knows you have been hired in order for your assignment to be processed correctly and for you to be paid on time. Complete all required new hire paperwork Your department cannot enter you into payroll, and you will not be paid, until all of your new hire paperwork has been completed and submitted to your department administrator or human resources manager. Employment Eligibility: Form I-9 The Form I-9 is required for all newly hired employees who will be working in the United States to verify that you are eligible to work in the United States. As soon as you have accepted your new position, complete Section 1 of the I-9 Form. Within 3 business days of your start date, visit an I-9 Service Center to complete Form I-9, Section 2. There are I-9 center locations on the Morningside, Manhattanville, CUIMC and Lamont-Doherty campuses. Remember to bring the appropriate original documents with you, as listed in Section 1 of the I-9 online. The list of acceptable documents can be found on the USCIS website. Please confirm with your department manager what your date of hire is. This is required for the Form I-9. International Students: If you do not have a Social Security Number (SSN), please refer to the International Student and Scholars (ISSO) website for information on how to apply for one. Tax Forms All new hires must complete the Federal Form W-4 and state tax forms before receiving a paycheck. These forms provide the University payroll system with the required information to set up the appropriate tax withholding from your paycheck. Complete your Federal W-4 Form Note: If you are an international student, the IRS has special instructions for Form W4 for nonresident aliens. Complete the appropriate New York State tax withholding forms -- IT2104 Form or IT2104.1 Form. Guidance on completing the NY State forms can be found on the New York State Department of Taxation website. If you are a Non-Resident Alien, you may be eligible for a tax treaty exemption. See IRS Publication 901 on U.S. Tax Treaties to see if your country is listed for students. Questions on your eligibility for a tax treaty benefit and how to complete Form 8233 may be directed to the Human Resources Processing Center (HRPC). HRPC Walk-In Hours: Wednesday: 9:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Thursday: 9:30 a.m. - 11:00 a.m.; 12:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Friday: 9:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Location: Studebaker Building 615 West 131st Street, 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 Casual Employment/NYS 195 Form This will be provided to you by your hiring department. You must review the information, sign and return it to your departmental administrator or human resources representative. For Student Officers If you hold a student officer appointment you cannot work more than 20 hours per week in all positions. If you are offered a casual job in addition to your student officer appointment, please discuss with the departmental administrator in the department in which you hold the student officer appointment. Expand all Collapse all After You Start Working Confirm Department Timesheet Requirements Timesheets are required to be submitted to your deparment at the end of each pay period. Timely submission of your timesheet will ensure that you are paid for the work done in that period. Please discuss the time sheet submission process with your department administrator, human resources representative or supervisor. Access the Timesheet for bi-weekly casual employees. Please remember you will not get paid if you do not submit a completed timesheet to the appropriate person in the department in which you are working. Set Up Direct Deposit Once your hiring paperwork has been completed and you are entered into the University payroll system—People at Columbia (PAC)—we recommend that you sign up for the free direct deposit service. Your paycheck will then be automatically deposited to your back account(s) each payday. See Direct Deposit Instructions Review Payroll Calendar Most student employees are paid on a bi-weekly basis. Confirmation of your pay frequency was provided on the Casual Employment Form or NYS 195 Form you signed as part of your new hire paperwork. The payroll calendars provides the specific dates on which you will receive your paycheck: 2020-2021 CUIMC Payroll Calendar 2020-2021 Morningside Payroll Calendar 2019-2020 CUIMC Payroll Calendar 2019-2020 Morningside Payroll Calendar View Your Paycheck Once you are hired into the University's system, you will be able to view each of your paychecks via the my.Columbia portal. Simply log in with your UNI and password, and click on "View Your Paycheck" under Self-Service. Expand all Collapse all Resources For Students Working on Campus On-Campus Jobs Federal Work-Study Program Jobs Jobs for International Students and Scholars Welcome to Columbia University Student Casual Employees Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close