Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Position Management Position Management Positions are used to indicate roles/describe a set of tasks within the University. Attributes of each position include the grade, title, classifications, FT/PT status and academic rank as well as a job description, and other descriptors. Position management is the process by which departments determine how jobs are defined, how many positions are needed, and what the organizational structure should look like. Expand all Collapse all How to Manage a Position Practice Whenever there are changes to the existing organizational structure, consult with your Client Manager to establish that positions are set up properly and that any position changes are documented and processed correctly. Good position management reflects current staffing levels of the University as well as provides an accurate historical account of incumbent data. For information on how to obtain new administrative or academic position numbers, access the How to Obtain a Position Number job aid. Reference the Mapping of University Rank Codes for position numbering structure, job codes, classified indicator, academic rank and position hierarchy. Review the Multiple Position Summary Chart for information on valid combination of positions for an employee. Submit the Position Management Request (PMR) Form. Process For new hires in new administrative positions, consult with your Client Manager to obtain a new position number to indicate in TBH or on the PAF. For existing positions, submit changes to existing positions via a PAF after consulting with your Client Manager. Generate an Active PAF for the employee from the Employee Personal Information page in the Manager Self-Service section of the People @ Columbia system. Enter the Action / Reason codes and effective date at the top of the PAF (see the chart below) In the appropriate sections of the PAF, draw/type a single line through information that needs to be changed and print/type the new information in the updated fields. Verify that the form is complete, sign it, attach the appropriate documentation and route it to the appropriate office for approval, along with the required supporting paperwork for the transaction Reference the How to Complete a PAF job aid for information on field entry. Action/Reason Codes Below are the applicable Action/Reason codes for Position Management. Enter these on the top of the PAF form to indicate the purpose for the submission. See a complete listing of Action / Reason codes. PAF / HRPC PAF Action Code POS Reason Code JRC Reason Job Re- classification Description Reclassify a position PAF / HRPC HRPC ONLY Action Code POS Reason Code NEW Reason New Position Description Create a new position PAF / HRPC HRPC ONLY Action Code POS Reason Code STA Reason Position Status Change Description Change position status (e.g. Active to Inactive) PAF / HRPC PAF Action Code POS Reason Code TIL Reason Title Change Description Change the position title PAF / HRPC PAF Action Code POS Reason Code UPD Reason Position Data Update Description Change the position data (e.g. FT to PT) PAF / HRPC PAF Action Code POS Reason Code XFR Reason Transfer Description Move position to another department HR Manager Toolkit Recruiting & Hiring TalentLink Staff Search Planning Staff Job Posting Conducting a Staff Search Position Management Hiring Process Background Checks I-9 Form Required Hiring Documents Onboarding Temporary Staffing Academic Appointments Related Documents Manager Self Service Training Guide Action Reason Codes Mapping of Rank Codes and Job Families Position Management Request Form How to Obtain a Position Number Multiple Positions Summary Completing a PAF Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close