Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Discounts: Healthcare, Entertainment and More Discounts: Healthcare, Entertainment and More Your Columbia Benefits include group discounts on a wide variety of nationally and locally recognized merchants, vendors and providers in many categories including electronics, fitness, apparel, travel, entertainment and more. Explore the many perks available to you and your family. There's something for everyone. Expand all Collapse all Take Advantage of Discounts Wellness To assist and support your ongoing wellbeing, if you are enrolled in the Aetna dental plan, Columbia University provides wellness resources, including discounts on: Blood pressure monitors and certain exercise and yoga equipment Personal trainers, health coaches and weight management programs Gym memberships, nutrition counseling, massage and other therapies Vitamins and other nutritional supplements Designer eyeglass frames, prescription/non-prescription sunglasses, non-disposable contact lenses and Lasik laser eye surgery Find more information on discounts provided through the Aetna Dental plan through the secure member website at www.aetna.com. You can also check out the Wellness tab on the Columbia Office of Work/Life website for more discounts relating to gym memberships and nutrition. Travel and Entertainment Looking for a weekend getaway, day trip or great entertainment nearby? Discounts on cultural events, hotel rooms and car rentals can be found on the Columbia University Discounts webpage. Use the code CUMC for discounts through Tickets at Work. Consider getting a New York Public Library card to gain free admission into museums in and around New York. Columbia University Libraries offer free NYPL on-site library card registration in Butler Library every fall, but you can also get one at the Morningside NYPL branch at Broadway and 114th Street. Did you know you can get help with pre-trip reminders as well as advice and emergency support while you’re traveling? Learn more about Cigna Secure Travel. Commuting No matter what type of wheels get you to and from work, Columbia has discounts to ease the expense of commuting. Check the Columbia Transportation webpage for details or call 1-212-854-3382. Everyday Expenses Wish you could shave a bit off your monthly cable and telephone bills? AT&T, Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile all offer discounts and special offers to Columbia employees. Learn more on the Columbia Discounts webpage. Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close