Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Virtual Visits Virtual Visits A virtual visit lets you talk with a doctor via computer or mobile device. Virtual visits are ideal for diagnosing and treating non-emergency issues, from fevers to colds and allergies. You can also ask questions about COVID-19 and be screened to determine if you should go to an in-person facility. Expand all Collapse all Using Virtual Visits Virtual Visits Basics A virtual visit is a direct communication between you and a doctor or other medical professional, via video. Virtual Visits Network If you have medical benefits through the University, your benefits include a Virtual Visits Network (AmWell, Doctor on Demand, Teladoc). Virtual Visits Network visits can happen anytime, day or night, 24/7, and most last 10 to 15 minutes. Doctors can write a prescription*, if needed, for pick up at your local pharmacy. Use the Virtual Visits Network for help with non-emergency medical conditions (flu, colds, pinkeye, rashes and fevers) and non-emergency emotional/mental health issues. 24/7 medical appointments. No traveling to the doctor’s office or sitting in a waiting room. Confidential in accordance with the law. Estimated Out-of-Pocket Cost: $30 (copays will be waived for the UHC Virtual Visits Network from March 18, 2020 to September 30, 2020. Copays for COVID-19 related virtual visits will continue to be waived until July 14, 2022.) Telehealth If you have medical benefits through the University, virtual visits with your regular doctor are referred to as Telehealth. Doctors and other medical providers who participate in the UHC Choice Network, as well as out-of-network medical providers who offer virtual care to patients, are considered Telehealth providers. For COVID-19-related diagnoses, there is no cost to you for a medical Telehealth visit with an in-network or out-of-network provider from February 4, 2020 through July 24, 2020. From July 25, 2020 through July 2022, there is no cost to you if you see an in-network provider.* *For in-network providers, no cost refers to no copay, deductible or co-insurance. For out-of-network providers, coverage refers to rates established by UHC's Naviguard program. If you have a Telehealth visit with a behavioral health provider (in-network or out-of-network) from March 31, 2020 through September 30, 2020, there is no cost to you. This includes Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) services. How to Use Virtual Visits and Online Resources There are many reasons and ways to take advantage of the Virtual Visits Network benefit. Medical Visits Use your mobile device to talk with a doctor, get a diagnosis and prescription.* If you have medical benefits through the University, we encourage you to go to the Getting Started section of this page to learn how to register for the Virtual Visits Network before you require medical information or care. Mental and/or Behavioral Health Visits Whether or not you have medical benefits through the University, employees can connect with a clinician who can evaluate and treat general mental health conditions and prescribe medications.* Locate providers through Live and Work Well’s provider search. You can also schedule appointments online. Optum’s Emotional-Support Help Line is available to anyone experiencing anxiety or stress related to COVID-19 or any other topic. Free Call 866-342-6892, 24 hours a day, seven days a week Open to anyone Support for substance use disorder: Connect via web-based chat through Live and Work Well. You can also call to speak with a recovery advocate 24/7 by calling 855-780-5955. Online Resources Explore tools on LiveandWorkWell.com such as articles, videos and self-help programs. You can also download apps, such as TalkSpace, a digital platform created to be a convenient and affordable way to connect with a licensed therapist from the privacy of your phone, laptop or tablet. Contact your therapist by text, voice, picture or video whenever something comes up. Your Talkspace “room” is available 24/7 (therapists respond during their regular work hours) so you never have to wait to share what’s on your mind. *As needed and as per state law. ColumbiaDoctors Virtual Urgent Care ColumbiaDoctors offers virtual urgent care. Board-Certified Emergency Medicine and Pediatric Emergency Medicine physicians are available for you from 8:00 a.m. to midnight, 365 days per year. Learn More Register with the Virtual Visits Network Before Your Appointment Before you require medical information or care: Log in to myUHC.com. If you need to reset your password; click the GO TO MY DASHBOARD button, then follow next steps Search for Virtual Visits. Click the GET STARTED button. Complete Virtual Visit Registration form. Click UPDATE MEDICAL HISTORY, then complete medical history form anytime before your first Virtual Visit. When you require medical information or care: Log in to myUHC.com. Search for Virtual Visits. Click the GET STARTED button. Click the REQUEST A VISIT button. If you have not updated your medical history or billing information, you will be asked to do so now. After your Virtual Visit is requested, you will be in a virtual waiting room. Given high demand, expect wait times of 20-minutes or more. Some virtual vendors have a call back feature so you do not have to wait on hold. What If You Think You Have Coronavirus? If you think you have been exposed to COVID-19 (coronavirus), contact your primary care provider. If you do not have a primary care provider or wish to connect with another medical professional while at home, virtual visits are ideal for asking questions. Doctors participating in UHC's Virtual Visits Network (AmWell, Doctor on Demand, Teladoc) can evaluate your risk and help with next steps, such as recommending you go to an in-person facility, if necessary. If you have a different illness, Virtual Visits Network doctors can provide support to help relieve your symptoms. Copays will be waived for the UHC Virtual Visits Network from March 18, 2020 to September 30, 2020. If you participate in a University medical plan, there will be no cost to you for approved COVID-19 diagnostic testing from March 18, 2020 to July 145, 2022. UHC will cover provider visits for COVID-19 the same way it covers other provider visits.* *For in-network providers, no cost refers to no copay, deductible or co-insurance. For out-of-network providers, coverage refers to rates established by UHC's Naviguard program. Optum’s Emotional-Support Help Line is available to anyone experiencing anxiety or stress related to COVID-19 or any other topic. Free Call 866-342-6892, 24 hours a day, seven days a week Open to anyone All employees, including those who don't have medical benefits through the University, can use NYP OnDemand to visit with a board-certified, emergency medicine physician from Columbia or Weill Cornell Medicine. Out-of-Pocket Cost: $0 (2-visit maximum through September 30, 2020). Details on this page. The University’s COVID-19 guidance page includes recent Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updates, campus resources and additional information. Well-being Emergency Travel Assistance Employee Assistance Program Ergonomics Program Health Advocate Mental Health Physical Fitness Preventive Care Sleep Resources Virtual Visits Wellness Coaching & Resources Women's Health Work/Life Programs Questions about Virtual Visits? Contact UnitedHealthcare to speak with a representative: 1-800-232-9357 Go to myuhc.com Download the "Health4me" App in Google Play or Apple Appstore Virtual Visits FAQs See UHC's answers to Frequently Asked Questions about Virtual Visits. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close