Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Human Resource Management Empowering a Community of Excellence Search form Search Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Menu Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs HRM CMS Documentation Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Search Search form Search Home Benefits Health Health Benefits Information about health benefits programs, including faculty and staff health insurance, Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs), Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) and Health Reimbursement Accounts (HRAs), the HealthQuest rewards program, wellness programs, and the Kansas Board of Regents Graduate Student Insurance Plan Employee Health Insurance State Employee Health Plan coverage will be effective as of the hire date and employees have 30 days to make their selections. Enrolling as soon possible after hire will help ensure you receive insurance cards timely and that payroll deductions begin timely. Prepaid Summer Benefits for Eligible Faculty and Staff Membership Administration Portal (MAP)» Use this portal to make your State Employee Health Plan elections during Open Enrollment and throughout the year. Please use your KU on-line and password to access MAP. For family status and other qualifying life events that occur mid-year, you will have 30 calendar days to make changes in MAP and to upload required documentation. See more information at Changes & Life Events. If you have questions or need assistance, contact the Benefits Office at benefits@ku.edu or 785/864-7402. Flexible Spending Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) help you save money by allowing you to deduct tax-free dollars from your pay to cover certain health and dependent care expenses that you may incur throughout the year. Benefits eligible employees can participate in the following FSAs: Standard Health Care FSA Limited Purpose Health Care FSA - available to those enrolled in Plans C and N Dependent Care FSA Health Savings and Health Reimbursement Accounts A Health Savings Account (HSA) is a tax-advantaged savings account available to you when you enroll in our Qualified High Deductible Health Plans, Plan C or Plan N. You may use the money in your account to pay for eligible health expenses for you and your tax qualified dependents. Your HSA is your account, and always portable, even if you retire or stop working for the State of Kansas, or your employer. Eligibility to Contribute to an HSA The IRS sets the guidelines outlining your eligibility to enroll and contribute to an HSA. These rules apply only to you as the employee and not to any covered family members. For you to qualify for an HSA, you must meet ALL the following: You must enroll in Plan C or N. You cannot be enrolled in Medicare A or B, Medicaid or TRICARE You cannot be claimed as a dependent on another person’s tax return. You cannot be enrolled in other non-qualifying coverage. Employees who are not eligible to contribute to a Health Savings Account (HSA) because of one of the above reasons will need to elect the HRA option. A Health Reimbursement Account (HRA) is a tax-advantaged savings account available to you if you enroll in Plans C, J, N or Q. The State contributes to the HRA account on your behalf. You may use the money in your HRA to pay for eligible health expenses. When you earn HealthQuest rewards, you are eligible to receive contributions in your HRA. The HRA will end if you terminate employment and does not have a rollover provision. HealthQuest Rewards Program The State Employee Health Plan (SEHP) offers the HealthQuest rewards program. If you are enrolled in the medical portion of the SEHP, you can earn credits by participating in HealthQuest wellness activities. If you are enrolled in any SEHP medical plan you (and your spouse if covered under the health plan) must earn 40 credits to recieve a $480 discount to your medical plan premiums in the next plan year. If you are enrolled in Plan C, J, N, or Q, you and/or your covered spouse also can earn additional employer contributions to your HRA/HSA. New Member Enrollment Information How to find your State of Kansas 11 digit ID (needed for HealthQuest enrollment) HealthQuest is an optional program; you are not required to participate in order to be covered under the SEHP. Wellness Information about health and wellness programs available to KU employees. Workstation Ergonomics Safe Lifting Practices Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The State Employee Health Plan offers an EAP at no charge for benefits-eligible employees and their dependents. The EAP provides information, short-term counseling, advice and referrals from licensed professionals who understand the typical stresses we all face day in and day out. Graduate Student Health Insurance Information about the Kansas Board of Regents Student health insurance programs offered to graduate students and eligibility requirements. Individual Dental and Vision Insurance Leaving Employment or Losing Eligiblity for Benefits Visit this page to learn about COBRA health insurance continuation coverage if you lose eligibility for the State Employee Health Plan and the impact to other benefits such as group life insurance, mandatory retirement plans, leave payouts, email and online accounts, etc. Need Help? Ask Us! Submit an Inquiry Quick Links Apply For A Job Benefits Health Insurance Hiring Process Holidays HR/Pay Login New Employee Packet Search Committee Login Tuition Assistance Vacation Leave Search for HRM Policies Search for Policies and Forms Visit the Policy Office for more information. HRM Calendars HR Pay Donate to Staff Emergency Assistance Fund KU Today 2022 Plan Rates & Comparison Chart Contact Human Resource Management hrdept@ku.edu 785-864-4946 Department of Human Resource Management University of Kansas Carruth O'Leary Hall, Room 103 1246 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045-7521 HR Intranet Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login