Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Hiring Process Hiring Process To provide a safe environment for our community and safeguard our assets, Columbia University conducts background checks on new hires. Template-Based Hires (TBH) is a function within People @ Columbia where new hire and rehire transactions are initiated electronically in the departments and schools through templates. Reminder Notice New York's Local Law 67 prohibits employers in New York City from inquiring about or relying on an applicant's salary history during the hiring process. See Presentation: Salary History Inquiries (NYC Local Law 67) Expand all Collapse all Academic & Administrative Hiring Background Checks & Drug Screenings In support of a safe and secure campus community, any applicant for a University position who receives a conditional offer of employment will undergo a background check. Rehires with a break in service of more than six consecutive months will also be required to undergo a background check. A background check consists of a criminal record search (including the 50-state sex offender registry), education and employment verifications. For more information, please see Background Checks. Drug Screenings: Some applicants will also be required to undergo drug testing, motor vehicle search or fingerprinting, depending on the nature of the position. Applicants for such positions will be notified of this requirement when an offer of employment is made. The finalist must be cleared by your HR client manager and given a conditional offer of employment before a background check can be initiated. Applicants are not permitted to begin working until the background check clearance is issued, unless an exception is approved in advance by the VP of Human Resources or his or her designee. Key Actions The finalist is selected by the school/department and cleared by your HR client manager. A conditional offer of employment is made. The Department initiates the background check (via e-link or manually). CUHR or CUIMC HR reviews the report and notifies the school/department if the selected finalist has cleared the background check or the report revealed a potentially disqualifying alert. In the case of a potentially disqualifying alert, CUHR / CUIMC HR will initiate the adverse action process (see Background Check Guidelines for more information regarding the pre-adverse process). If the finalist is cleared by CUHR or CUMC HR, the school/department can move forward with the hiring process. See Columbia University Background Check Policy Note: For more information regarding which positions require drug testing, motor vehicle department search, or finger printing, contact your designated HR Client Manager. Template-Based Hires and Rehires in PAC Template-Based Hires (TBH) is a function within People @ Columbia where new hire and rehire transactions are initiated electronically in the departments and schools through templates. A document attachment feature allows you to attach any documents necessary, and the electronic workflow allows for a paperless approval process. This function also integrates Salary Distributions and Additional Compensation payments known at the time of hire into the templates. This functionality ensures that monies are charged to the correct funding arrangement and not to suspense. Access to Template-Based Hires is provided to employees at Columbia University who initiate and approve hiring transactions. The Human Resources Processing Center (HRPC) completes the hire/rehire transactions and creates the PAC record. There is a campus specific template to use depending on the type of employee you are hiring or rehiring: Hire-Academic: to hire academic officers (Morningside campus). Rehire-Academic: to rehire academic officers (Morningside campus). Hire-Clinical: to hire academic officers (CUIMC campus). Used for academic officers who hold a clinical appointment and also for those who do not. Rehire-Clinical: to rehire academic officers (CUIMC campus). Used for academic officers who hold a clinical appointment and also for those who do not. Administrative Hire: to hire all types of administrative staff (Morningside and CUIMC campuses). Administrative Rehire: to rehire all types of administrative staff (CUIMC and Morningside campuses). How to complete the template-based hire transactions: Template-Based Hires Page 1 Training Guide Template-Based Hires Page 2 (Labor Accounting) Training Guide Encryption software should be installed to ensure the security of Personally Identifiable Information (PII): Encryption tools University Registration and Protection of Endpoints Policy Visit the Course Catalog for detailed information on processing hire transactions. Employment instances where TBH is not used: Students who are Teaching Assistants (TAs), Departmental Research Assistants (DRAs) or Graduate Research Assistants (GRAs) who receive a stipend and have a Bursar/Financial Aid record in the Student Information Services (SIS) system. These students receive a PAC identity via the SIS feed which does not allow the TBH entry to be completed. Students who are active in the Work Study system. These students receive a PAC identity via the Work Study feed which does not allow the TBH entry to be completed. Retirees who are active in the system and have a PAC identity which does not allow the TBH entry to be completed. Personnel awaiting a Social Security Number (SSN). People being hired with multiple jobs/appointments or those being hired into an additional job. Academic personnel with stipends (postdoctoral research fellows and postdoctoral clinical fellows). Academic personnel who are reappointed on rosters (as applicable when rosters are used). Academic personnel going on leave immediately upon hire. For these types of hires, submit a paper New Hire Personnel Action Form (PAF) for Administrative hires or a paper Nomination Form for Academic hires. Reference the Effective Dates in PAC job aid for information on how effective dates are used. Paper Hiring Process Paper Process for New Hires The information entered onto the paper forms is the same information that is entered into the electronic templates in TBH. For a description of the fields, how to complete them, and the list of documents that must be attached, refer to the training materials in the Training Catalog. Using the Nomination Form/New Hire PAF Access the Nomination Form / PAF Type information directly on the form. Enter information on the form and use the drop down boxes. Please do not hand-write the information. Verify that the form is complete. Review the entries to verify that the information is correct and that all of the appropriate fields have been completed. Print, sign and route the form. once the form is complete, print it and have it signed by the person in your department with the security access to sign PAFs it then route it to the appropriate office for approval along with the required documents. The Final Approver will forward the complete file to the HRPC. The list of required documents can be found in the Attaching Documents in TBH Job Aid. Please refer to the How to Complete a PAF Job Aid for complete information on the fields required. Paper Process for Rehires and Reappointments A rehire is someone who was previously employed by the University and is returning to work at the University. As the person was previously employed here, he/she is considered a rehire and not a new hire. A reappointment is a renewal of a term appointment for academic officers. For more information on academic reappointments, please visit the Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Programs. Policy on Academic Hires Academic personnel, except those with Tenure or Tenure of Title, can be appointment for no more than one year. Academic personnel can be reappointed either by roster or by PAF. Please reference the Faculty Handbook for additional information about academic hires. Hiring Steps Academic personnel on regular term appointments are rehired via the roster process. A memo with information about processing rosters is provided by the Provost Office and sent directly to Departmental Administrators during the specific Spring, Summer, and Fall terms. To rehire an administrative employee or an academic employee not rehired using a roster, follow the steps below. Generate an Active PAF for the employee from the Employee Personal Information page in the Manager Self-Service section of People @ Columbia. Enter the action/reason codes and effective date at the top of the PAF (see the chart below) In the appropriate sections of the PAF, draw / type a single line through information that needs to be changed and print / type the new information in the updated fields. Verify that the form is complete, sign it, attach the appropriate documentation and route it to the appropriate office for approval, along with the required supporting paperwork for the transaction Please refer to the How to Complete a PAF Job Aid for complete information on the fields required. Action/Reason Codes (Academic and Administrative Hires and Academic Re-appointments / Administrative Rehires) Below are the applicable action / reason codes for an Academic or Administrative Hire and for an academic reappointment / administrative rehire. Enter these on the top of the PAF or Nomination form to indicate the purpose for the submission. NOM/PAF NOM/PAF Action Code HIR Reason Code NEW Reason New Hire Description Used for most new hires NOM/PAF NOM/PAF Action Code HIR Reason Code MJB Reason Multiple Jobs Description Used to hire someone into multiple positions NOM/PAF PAF Action Code REH Reason Code REH Reason Rehire Description Previously worked at Columbia NOM/PAF PAF Action Code REH Reason Code CNW Reason Contract Renewal Description Renew academic officer's contract NOM/PAF PAF Action Code DTA Reason Code CNW Reason Contract Renewal Description Extends current appointment Offer Letter Templates (Administrative Hires Only) Visit Conducting a Staff Search to view offer letter templates for administrative hires. HR Manager Toolkit Recruiting & Hiring TalentLink Staff Search Planning Staff Job Posting Conducting a Staff Search Position Management Hiring Process Background Checks I-9 Form Required Hiring Documents Onboarding Temporary Staffing Academic Appointments Related Documents - Background Background Check Policy Guidelines Hiring Steps for Administrative Employees Related Documents - Hiring New Hire Checklist Completing a PAF Action Reason Codes Manager Self Service Guide TBH Hires Page 1 Training Guide TBH Hires Page 2 Labor Accounting Personnel Action Form Nomination Form Effective Date in PAC Attaching Documents in Template-Based Hire Stop Sexual Harassment Factsheet Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close