Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Retirement Savings and Financial Planning Retirement Savings and Financial Planning Image Carousel with 5 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Slide 5 SECURE Act Provision effective January 1: Withdraw from VRSP to pay for birth or adoption of a child Learn More Retirement Plan fees reduced beginning October 1 Learn More Review your Retirement Beneficiaries View & Update You Can Call a Retirement Specialist Sign Up Now Summary Annual Reports University-Sponsored Retirement Plans Review Now Previous Next Investment Lineup Transition The University is committed to providing retirement programs to help you plan for the future and provide a foundation of retirement income in addition to your personal savings and investments. Effective June 1, 2022, the University is streamlining the investment options available through the Plans. TIAA Transition Guide Vanguard Transition Guide CUBES Vanguard Log in TIAA Log in Calculators Goal Setting Video Tutorials Overview You enroll and make adjustments to retirement savings accounts* via CUBES. However, you manage your accounts and find resources via the TIAA and Vanguard websites: Vanguard (You will first need to register under "Sign up for online access". Follow instructions and input Plan #096141.) TIAA (You will first need to register under "New user access.") Important Reminder on Beneficiaries: Assign your beneficiaries in the Vanguard and TIAA plans via their websites (not only in CUBES). *Retirement benefits may vary according to your employment group. Retirement Fee Disclosures Officers Retirement Plan SSA Retirement Plan Support Staff Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Savings Plan (VRSP) Officers Officer Eligibility University Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Savings Program Resources & Legal Documents Retirement News Events & Training Temporary Retirement Changes 2021 Frequently Asked Questions Support Staff Support Staff Eligibility University Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Savings Program (VRSP) Resources & Legal Documents Retirement News Events & Training Frequently Asked Questions Student Workers Voluntary Retirement Savings Program (VRSP) The VRSP is a 403(b) retirement plan that lets you contribute from 1% to 80% of your eligible pay, on a pre-tax (deducted along with any other taxes) and/or Roth after-tax (deducted from take-home pay) basis, up to the annual IRS limit. Eligibility begins on date of hire. You are always 100% entitled to the value of your own contributions. The IRS sets a maximum contribution limit each year, which applies to combined contributions, pre-tax and Roth: The 2022 maximum contribution is $20,500 (plus $6,500 if you are age 50 and over, for a total of $27,000). The Social Security wage base will increase for 2022 from $142,800 to $147,000. You have a wide range of funds to choose from for investing your savings, available through TIAA and/or Vanguard. Make Sure You Are Signed Up Not sure if you are participating in the VRSP? The simplest way to check is to look at your payroll statement. To enroll in the VRSP, log in to CUBES; select "Retirement" and follow the prompts. Expand all Collapse all Your contributions Pre-tax Contributions Pre-tax contributions to the VRSP are deducted from your paycheck with taxes withheld. Making pre-tax contributions allows you to defer paying taxes until you make a withdrawal from your retirement account. Roth Contributions A Roth contribution is money that you contribute to your VRSP after taxes. Roth contributions are taxable like the rest of your current pay. Because Roth contributions are deposited into a VRSP after taxes were deducted, withdrawals will be tax free, subject to certain rules. Retirees Are you a currently retired Columbia Officer or Support Staff member—or planning for your retirement? Find all benefits information and planning resources on the Retiree Benefits website. Go to Retiree Benefits Contacts Benefits Service Center Hours: Monday - Friday, 9 am - 4 pm Telephone: 212-851-7000 Secure Fax: 212-851-7025 Email: [email protected] More Information TIAA Telephone: 1-800-842-2252 Website: www.tiaa.org/columbia The Vanguard Group Telephone: 1-888-523-1188 Events & Training Calendar Sep1Thu Retirement Planning Workshop For Officers Ages 55+ Webinar 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Sep2Fri Retirement Planning Workshop For Support Staff 40+ Webinar 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Oct6Thu Retirement Planning Workshop For Officers Ages 55+ Webinar 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM ALL EVENTS NEWS November 05, 2021 Sign Up Now: Phone Meetings with Retirement Specialists TIAA and Vanguard retirement planning specialists are available for one-on-one phone consultations. Tags Retirement Officers NewsRetirement Support Staff NewsRetirementBenefits October 11, 2021 Voluntary Retirement Savings Plan SECURE Act Provision SECURE Act provision to Retirement Plans regarding withdrawals. Tags Retirement Officers NewsRetirement Support Staff NewsBenefits July 06, 2021 Sign Up for Retirement Webinars and 1-on-1's Employees can attend retirement webinars and private sessions led by experts from TIAA and Vanguard. Tags Retirement Officers NewsRetirement Support Staff NewsRetirement More News Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close