Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Don't Go It Alone Don't Go It Alone It can be easy to forget mental health needs the same attention as physical health. Struggles with emotional and psychological issues are fairly common: One in five adults experiences a mental health condition each year. If you or a loved one are among them, there are resources available to support you in maintaining your well-being. It's okay if you don’t have it all figured out. "I'm Fine" Saying it a lot? If you find yourself telling people you’re fine but know you’re not, consider being honest. Confiding in a loved one or colleague can help you begin to work through mental and emotional challenges. Hearing it a lot? If a loved one or colleague is telling you they’re fine but you have reason to believe otherwise, say something. Encourage colleagues and family members to use the resources on this page. Your outreach could be what inspires them to seek treatment. Expand all Collapse all Where to Start Ask a Professional The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) When you’re struggling with life’s challenges, get help identifying the type of support you need by calling the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) at 888-673-1153 (TTY: 711). The EAP is free, confidential, available 24/7, and provides the opportunity to talk with a licensed Master’s or Ph.D.-level mental health and/or substance abuse professional (up to three sessions per issue). He or she can direct you to other resources as needed, including referrals to a counselor or doctor for treatment. The EAP is free for all benefits eligible faculty and staff, and members of their household. The EAP also provides other mental health resources, such as life coaches and meditation programs. To access these benefits and find out more, go to the EAP website managed by Humana, the University’s EAP administrator (Username: Columbia | Password: eap). New Resources University medical plans, administered by UnitedHealthcare (UHC), and the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), administered by Humana, include a variety of new and flexible mental health resources designed to meet employees where and when they need help. TalkSpace Talkspace is a digital platform created to be a convenient and affordable way to connect with a licensed therapist from the privacy of your phone, laptop or tablet. Contact your therapist by text, voice, picture or video whenever something comes up. Your Talkspace “room” is available 24/7 (therapists respond during their regular work hours) so you never have to wait to share what’s on your mind, whether you’re commuting, at the office or sitting on your couch. Details: 5,000 licensed online therapists across 50 states. Get matched to a therapist based on location, needs and preferences. Support via text, video and audio messages, or live video session Confidential and secure. Providers respond daily, five days a week. Monthly subscription. How to Start If you’re enrolled in a University medical plan: Find Talkspace within the Live and Work Well provider search or call 800-232-9357 to get a referral. Each session is considered to be in-network outpatient mental health counseling. One session = each live video session or 5 business days of texting Register at talkspace.com/connect to have your UHC medical benefit apply to the sessions. If you’re not enrolled in a University medical plan: Access Talkspace through the EAP. Go to talkspace.com to register. Use discount code “connectionhub15” during registration for 15% off a monthly subscription. Virtual Counseling Struggling to get to your therapist’s office? For non-emergency concerns, meet with a therapist online. The cost is the same as a physician’s office visit if you’re enrolled in a University medical plan. You can locate providers through Live and Work Well’s provider search and even schedule appointments online. Go to our Virtual Visits page to learn more. Columbia Psychiatry For over 100 years, Columbia Psychiatry has offered world-renowned mental health services in the New York metro area. These services are in-network for those enrolled in University medical plans to provide access to top-of-the-line mental health care to the Columbia community. Columbia Psychiatry providers combine knowledge of the latest research with years of clinical experience to guide adults, children and adolescents through the journey of improving their thoughts, feelings and behavior. From general psychotherapy services to the most complex and treatment-resistant cases, the team of more than 100 psychiatrists, psychologists and licensed clinical social workers work hard to provide compassionate, individualized care to meet the needs of each person. Offices in Manhattan: W. 51 Street, Columbus Circle, W. 168 Street. Office in Westchester County, N.Y.: 155 White Plains Road, Tarrytown Key programs include: Group therapy - University medical plans include coverage for the Columbia Day Program, a group program designed for people suffering from a variety of conditions, including anxiety, depression, eating disorders and substance abuse. To make an appointment or learn more, go to columbiadoctors.org/dayprogram or call 212-326-8441. Columbia Anxiety Day Program Westchester - The CUCARD Westchester Anxiety Day Program provides daily, comprehensive treatment for adolescents whose lives are severely impaired by anxiety or OCD. Our evidence-based approach is designed to help teenagers better manage anxiety so they can return to school and get back to their daily lives as quickly as possible. To make an appointment or learn more, go to columbiadoctors.org/childrens-health/anxietydayprogram or call 914-631-4618. B.U.D.S Program - B.U.D.S is a 4-week summer treatment program run by the Program for ADHD & Disruptive Behavior at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. This program is designed for children ages 6-9 who need help following teacher direction, listening to instruction, controlling impulsivity and energy level, regulating their emotion, improving social skills and paying attention to tasks. To make an appointment or learn more, go to columbiadoctors.org/childrens-health/buds-program or call 212-305-6001. To learn more about services offered, go to columbiadoctors.org/psychiatry. To request an appointment, please fill out the online form or call 212-305-6001. General Resources and Additional Help Office of Work/Life Check out the Office of Work/Life for resources to help boost your mental and emotional well-being including: Guided meditation audios and upcoming mindfulness programs (such as Cultivating Compassion Training (CCT); Yoga videos; and Gym and wellness discounts. Go to the Office of Work/Life’s Mental & Emotional Well-Being page for additional programs and events. If you think your team could benefit from a yoga or meditation session--or other well-being program or presentation--speak with your manager, then fill out this: Wellness Presentation Request Form. National Mental Health Resources Mental Health America A community-based non-profit dedicated to addressing the needs of those living with mental illness and to promoting the overall mental health of all Americans. Use the online screening tools for a quick look at your mental health. MentalHealth.gov Check out the list of Mental Health Myths and Facts. National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 800-273-8255. Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close