Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Human Resource Management Empowering a Community of Excellence Search form Search Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Menu Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs HRM CMS Documentation Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Search Search form Search Home Learn & Develop Tuition Assistance Tuition Assistance for Employees Apply Here Fall 2022 Tuition Assistance applications will be accepted June 1st - July 8th. The purpose of the tuition assistance program is to promote and encourage the pursuit of higher education opportunities and professional development. KU provides eligible employees with assistance to cover tuition for one class (up to 5 hours) per semester. Employees are encouraged to review the Tuition Assistance Program Policy. For additional information, please refer to the Tuition Assistance FAQs. Receiving a tuition assistance award does not guarantee an employee admission to the University of Kansas. The employee must complete an application for admission by the start of classes. Employee Dependent Tuition Assistance information is available on the Finacial Aid and Scholarships webpage. Application Deadlines: Fall: First Friday in July by 5:00 p.m. (If this day falls on a National Holiday, then the deadline will be the following Monday) Spring: First Friday in November by 5:00 p.m. Summer: First Friday in April by 5:00 p.m. Faculty/Staff Eligibility The requesting employee must be a non-tenure-track faculty or a staff member with an appointment to a regular position with 48% or greater FTE and one year of continuous KU employment as of September 1 for the Fall semester: February 1 for the Spring semester; or June 1 for the Summer term A tenure-track faculty member is generally ineligible to receive tuition assistance. However, in special circumstances and at the discretion of Human Resource Management (HRM) in consultation with the Provost Office, a tenure-track faculty member may be considered eligible for tuition assistance. The requesting faculty/staff member must also have a most recent performance evaluation rating of at least “meets expectations” or its equivalent for faculty and have not been subject to disciplinary actions or academic misconduct within the last 12 months. HRM and the supervisor determine the eligibility based on performance whereas the Policy Office determines academic misconduct status. The requesting employee does not have to be degree seeking to participate in the Tuition Assistance program. Employees who have received an official notice that their employment is ending or projected to end will be deemed ineligible for tuition assistance if their position will end during or before the start of the semester for which they are requesting tuition assistance. Affiliates are not eligible for the University’s Tuition Assistance program. Eligible employees must not have been subject to disciplinary action (suspension, involuntary demotion, and dismissal). Eligible employees must not have been subject to academic misconduct within the last twelve months. Once accepted for tuition assistance, faculty/staff must satisfy the additional following criteria to maintain eligibility for subsequent tuition assistance. An employee must receive a C or above for undergraduate courses funded by tuition assistance and a B or above for graduate courses funded by tuition assistance. An employee may also take classes on a pass/fail basis. Employees who do not achieve these grades will be required to complete 6 credit hours at their own expense before being eligible for tuition assistance again. Applicants must authorize HRM to have access to their grades (or credit) for past courses supported by the tuition assistance program. Faculty/Staff with incompletes in a tuition assistance funded courses are not eligible to receive additional funding until the incomplete is resolved. In the event a tuition assistance recipient is unable to complete the enrolled course, withdraws from the course, or the recipient’s employment with the University ends before the end of the semester, it becomes the obligation of the recipient to repay any tuition that is not refunded to the University. Recipients of tuition assistance may review their account balances online at Enroll & Pay under “Campus Finances.” Courses Eligible for Tuition Assistance Coverage HRM may deny applications for courses not covered. HRM will grant Tuition assistance for outside institutions only if KU does not offer the course, or its equivalent, as determined by HRM and Enrollment Management. HRM will consider any exception on a case-by-case basis. In the event HRM awards tuition assistance for a class at an alternate educational institution, the amount of the total award will not exceed KU’s equivalent tuition rate. Any fees required by an alternate educational institution will be the participant’s responsibility. Courses covered: Eligible KU course (one course, up to 5 hours) Courses at outside institutions if the course, or its equivalent, is not offered at the University of Kansas as determined by Human Resource Management and Enrollment Management may be eligible. More information about courses at outside institutions of "Third Party Tuition Assistance" is detailed below. Both undergraduate and post-baccalaureate level courses College credit classes for professional development purposes or personal enrichment Classes that are taken for a grade or credit Independent Study and distance education courses through KU Continuing Education may be approved on a case by case basis (program requirements must be addressed by the applicant) On-line library science and instructional design classes through Emporia State University, following the Third Party Tuition Assistance process Vocational classes for- credit at area vocational schools or Johnson County Community college, following the Third Party Tuition Assistance process For-credit classes at Johnson County Community College (JCCC), following the Third Party Tuition Assistance process KU thesis and dissertation hours on a limited basis. The maximum number of hours covered through this program include six (6) credit hours for a Master’s thesis or nine (9) credit hours for a doctoral dissertation. Employees interested in completing the General Educational Development (GED) test may apply to the tuition assistance program to cover the costs of the test. Due to timeframe differences, employees interested in applying to the tuition assistance program for this purpose should contact HRM directly via e-mail and do not have to adhere to the same application deadline schedule as required for regular tuition assistance applications. Ineligible Courses at KU and Other Institutions: Accelerated degree programs at other universities Internships Audited classes that are assessed tuition payment. Professional development seminars or test preparation classes. KU’s PUAD 660 and PUAD 661 because the Certified Public Manager (CPM) Program, a series of non-credit workshops, also covers the subject matter of these courses. The CPM program is a professional development opportunity rather than academic courses; therefore, KU provides no Tuition Assistance. The same course cannot be retaken unless the class is “readings, topics or seminars” with different subjects. Applicant and Recipient Responsibilities Receiving a tuition assistance award does not guarantee an employee admission to the University of Kansas. The employee must complete an application for admission by the start of classes. An employee must submit a complete tuition assistance application by the specified deadlines as described below for each term (fall, spring, and summer) the employee wishes to request tuition assistance. Application Deadlines: Fall: First Friday in July by 5:00 p.m. (If this day falls on a National Holiday, then the deadline will be the following Monday) Spring: First Friday in November by 5:00 p.m. Summer: First Friday in April by 5:00 p.m. Employees who submit incomplete and/or late applications will be ineligible for tuition assistance. Required Application Materials: Please submit the following required materials with each application. A short statement from the employee’s supervisor showing support. The supervisor must sign and date the statement of support. Departments and supervisors are encouraged to facilitate academic course attendance and also maintain the normal functions of the position and the department. The statement of support serves to ensure that the supervisor is aware of the time commitment required of the course the student is taking, regardless of whether or not the class meets during the work shift - but specifically the time that may result in absence from work during the work day to attend the course. If the applicant has previously been approved for Tuition Assistance at the University of Kansas, the applicant must provide an Advising Report. Instructions on pulling an advising report can be found on the Advising Report Tutorial. If applying for the first time, please provide an unofficial transcript of your most recent education. If the applicant has previously been approved for Tuition Assistance at another institution, the applicant must provide proof of grade for any tuition assistance approved courses. Applicants must authorize HRM access to their grades (or credit) for past courses supported by the tuition assistance program. Application Form: The Electronic Tuition Assistance Application Deadline to Enroll and Receive Tuition Assistance: The tuition assistance recipient must enroll in the tuition assistance approved course prior to the start of classes. If the recipient fails to enroll in the course prior to the start of classes, tuition assistance will not be applied to the recipient’s account. Notification from Applicant of changes to Tuition Assistance Award: An applicant who has been awarded tuition assistance must provide HRM notification of any changes to the applicant’s tuition assistance award following the deadlines described as follows: If an applicant is approved for tuition assistance but decides not to enroll in the tuition assistance course, the tuition assistance recipient must notify HRM of this decision in writing to hrdept@ku.edu prior to the first day of classes. If a tuition assistance recipient decides to change the course for which tuition assistance was received, the recipient must notify HRM of the requested class change prior to the add/drop date using the Course Change Request Form. Selection/Approval Information KU will apply approved Tuition Assistance only to tuition costs; any course fees are the responsibility of the recipient. KU campus fees are automatically covered with the “staff rates” applicable to KU faculty and staff. KU will award approved Tuition Assistance for an amount that will not exceed KU’s equivalent tuition rate. Tuition assistance is subject to the availability of funding and the number of qualified applicants. Withdrawing from Classes If an employee needs to withdraw from a class: Contact the Office of the University Registrar by email at registrar@ku.edu or by phone at 785-864-4422 to initiate the withdrawal process. Contact the Bursar's Office by email at bursar@ku.edu or by phone at 785-864-3322 for assistance with tuition adjustments. Please notify HRM by email at hrdept@ku.edu or by phone at 785-864-4946 of the decision to withdraw. The recipient must repay any tuition not refunded to the University. Third Party Tuition Assistance If applying to receive tuition assistance for a Third Party institution, the tuition assistance applicant is responsible for applying for tuition assistance following the deadlines and application processes detailed above. If approved, the tuition assistance approval will be a preliminary approval contingent upon the tuition assistance recipient completing the course at the third party institution. The preliminary approval will include the amount of tuition assistance that will be awarded upon the employee completing the course. The tuition assistance recipient would be responsible for paying for the course at the Third Party institution up front, and upon completion of the course must provide documentation to Human Resource Management verifying that the preliminarily approved course was completed and an itemized receipt from the institution showing the amount paid for the course. Upon receipt of sufficient documentation from the employee proving the course was completed, Human Resource Management will reimburse the tuition assistance recipient for the amount identified upon the preliminary approval. If the tuition assistance recipient fails to complete the course (e.g. withdraws, drops, etc.), or fails to provide sufficient documentation that the course was completed, the reimbursement will not be processed. If the tuition assistance recipient provides sufficient documentation that the course was completed, but with a failing grade, or with a grade lower than that required for tuition assistance the reimbursement may still be processed, but the grade may impact eligibility for tuition assistance for future semesters. Related Forms Tuition Assistance Course Change Request Form Tuition Assistance Electronic Form Need Help? Ask Us! Submit an Inquiry Talent Development Login Quick Links Apply For A Job Benefits Health Insurance Hiring Process Holidays HR/Pay Login New Employee Packet Search Committee Login Tuition Assistance Vacation Leave Search for HRM Policies Search for Policies and Forms Visit the Policy Office for more information. HRM Calendars HR Pay Donate to Staff Emergency Assistance Fund KU Today 2022 Plan Rates & Comparison Chart Contact Human Resource Management hrdept@ku.edu 785-864-4946 Department of Human Resource Management University of Kansas Carruth O'Leary Hall, Room 103 1246 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045-7521 HR Intranet Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login