Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Tuition Programs Officers - Primary Tuition Scholarship Officers - Primary Tuition Scholarship For eligible, full-time faculty and other Officers, the Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS) benefit pays for a portion of your children's tuition for grades K-8 at New York City Private Schools or The School at Columbia University. There is no waiting period. Expand all Collapse all Eligibility Who Is Eligible? You are a regular full-time salaried Officer of Instruction, Administration, the Libraries and Research; and You or your spouse/same-sex domestic partner has a dependent child—a natural child, adopted child, or stepchild, or a child for whom one of you has legal guardianship—who is enrolled in grades K-8 at a private school; AND: Both you and the child live within the five boroughs of New York City; and The school is an accredited, private academic institution located within the five boroughs of New York City. Officers are Not Eligible if: You are a visiting Officer of Instruction or Research, or you are a postdoctoral research fellow or postdoctoral clinical fellow; or The child is in nursery school, pre-kindergarten, or grades 9 through 12. When Eligibility Starts Officers who are eligible can receive a PTS as soon as you are eligible for full-time Officer benefits, although you will be only partially covered for a school year if one is already under way. The table below illustrates the portion of the PTS you are entitled to receive if you are newly hired or newly eligible. Note: The day of the month does not have an impact on your benefit. In addition, the table assumes the academic year runs from September to June. If the school operates on a different academic year, the scholarship will be adjusted based on how far into the academic year you were hired. New Hires or Newly Eligible Month of Hire September Proportion of Scholarship 100% Month of Hire October Proportion of Scholarship 90% Month of Hire November Proportion of Scholarship 80% Month of Hire December Proportion of Scholarship 70% Month of Hire January Proportion of Scholarship 60% Month of Hire February Proportion of Scholarship 50% Month of Hire March Proportion of Scholarship 40% Month of Hire April Proportion of Scholarship 30% Month of Hire May Proportion of Scholarship 20% Month of Hire June Proportion of Scholarship 10% Expand all Collapse all PTS Benefits What's Covered Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS) has two benefits that cover eligible children of full-time faculty and other Officers: NYC Private Schools For eligible, full-time, regular salaried Officers, the PTS benefit pays between 10% and 35% of your child’s tuition in grades K-8 at a private school within the five boroughs of New York City based on Qualifying Family Income. Both you and your child(ren) must live within the five boroughs of New York City. For a PTS benefit greater than 10% of tuition, prior year federal tax return is used to determine Qualifying Family Income. If your tax return is not submitted, the PTS award will equal 10%. Please refer to the PTS Policy's Qualifying Family Income Table, which details percent of tuition covered. The School at Columbia University For eligible, full-time, regular salaried Officers, the PTS benefit pays 50% of your dependent child's tuition for grades K-8 at The School at Columbia University. Both you and your child(ren) must live within the five boroughs of New York City. Please note: Application to The School of Columbia University is a separate process. For information, go to theschool.columbia.edu. Expand all Collapse all How to Apply Checklists You apply for the PTS programs by following instructions in the Checklist and submitting your completed application via EBPA after June 1 for the start of a new primary school year. EBPA is our third party administrator that processes PTS applications and benefits payments. PTS Checklist: NYC Private Schools PTS Checklist: The School at Columbia How to Submit Submit application to EBPA after June 1 for the start of a new primary school year. Go to secure.ebpabenefits.com; click “Reimbursement Accounts”; enter information; upload documents; or Send via fax: 603‐773‐4425; or Send via mail: EBPA, P.O. Box 1140, Exeter, NH 03833‐1140. For application status and payment processing questions, Please go to EBPA Contact Us at https://www.ebpabenefits.com/contact-us or call EBPA customer service: 1-888-456-4576. EBPA will review the uploaded documents within 2-3 business days to confirm completeness of the application prior to processing. PTS application processing begins after all required documentation is received, and will take up to 15 business days to complete. Expand all Collapse all Employment Changes Affecting Eligibility Layoff If you are laid off during a term, your child’s PTS for that term will not be revoked. However, he or she will not be eligible for a PTS for any subsequent term. Involuntary Termination Involuntary Termination or Involuntary Transfer to Part-Time Employment If you are involuntarily discharged or released, or involuntarily transferred—other than for cause—from a full-time to a part-time appointment during a term, the PTS benefit for the current term will not be revoked. However, the Officer will not be granted PTS benefits for any subsequent term. If your employment is terminated for cause, you will be required to pay back a portion of the PTS benefit for the current term, according to the table under Proportion of Scholarship Retained, which outlines the portion of your PTS you are entitled to retain if you leave in a given month. Note that the day of the month is not relevant for this purpose. Eligibility officially ends at the close of business on the last day of your active, full-time employment with the University. Voluntary Resignation Voluntary Resignation or Voluntary Transfer to Part-Time Employment If you voluntarily resign, are discharged or released, or switch from a full-time to a part-time appointment during a term, you must refund to Columbia a portion of any PTS benefit received for that term. The table under Proportion of Scholarship Retained outlines the portion of your PTS you are entitled to retain if you leave in a given month. Note that the day of the month is not relevant for this purpose. Eligibility officially ends at the close of business on the last day of your active, full-time employment with the University. Proportion of Scholarship Retained Officer's Resignation, Discharge or Release, Or Child's Departure from School Listed on Application Month of Separation September Proportion of Scholarship You Retain 10% Month of Separation October Proportion of Scholarship You Retain 20% Month of Separation November Proportion of Scholarship You Retain 30% Month of Separation December Proportion of Scholarship You Retain 40% Month of Separation January Proportion of Scholarship You Retain 50% Month of Separation February Proportion of Scholarship You Retain 60% Month of Separation March Proportion of Scholarship You Retain 70% Month of Separation April Proportion of Scholarship You Retain 80% Month of Separation May Proportion of Scholarship You Retain 90% Month of Separation June Proportion of Scholarship You Retain 100% Leave of Absence Officers on any paid or unpaid leave of absence are still considered to be full-time Officers, and their otherwise eligible children continue to qualify for the PTS. Retirement Upon the Officer’s retirement, children remain eligible for PTS benefits for which they were eligible under the terms in effect (at the time the application is submitted) for active Officers with the same hire date. To retire with this benefit, an Officer must be 55 years or older and must have completed ten (10) years of continuous benefits-eligible service after age 45. Death If a deceased Officer had completed ten (10) years of continuous benefits-eligible service at death, the otherwise eligible dependent child of the Officer, or of the Officer’s spouse or same-sex domestic partner, is eligible for a PTS under the terms in effect for active Officers at the time the application is submitted. If a deceased Officer had completed less than ten (10) years of continuous benefits-eligible service at death, the otherwise eligible dependent child may receive a PTS only to complete the academic year started before the Officer’s death. Tax Treatment Under current Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations, a PTS only counts as taxable income when it benefits the dependent child of a same-sex domestic partner. Tuition Programs Officers Primary Tuition Scholarship Program College Tuition Scholarship Program Tuition Exemption Reduced Employee Rate Job-Related Graduate Education Certification Tuition Tax Treatment College Coach Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS) News Review Eligibility & Print Forms: Log in to CUBES Confirm access using multifactor authentication (DUO) Select "Tuition" in the menu On the Tuition Programs page, choose your program Resources PTS Policy PTS Checklist - NYC Private Schools PTS Checklist - The School at Columbia University The School at Columbia Enrollment Contract The School at Columbia Office Resource FAQs Application - Eligible Retired Officers Application - Family of Eligible Deceased Officers Work-Life Workshops & Events Submit Application to EBPA On the EBPA website, click on "Reimbursement Accounts" and enter your information and upload your application and supporting documentation PDFs. In the event that the information contained on this page conflicts with any other published information, the policy prevails. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close