Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Vacation, Holidays & Personal Days Vacation, Holidays & Personal Days The University provides eligible employees with paid time off, including vacation days, personal days, and holidays (federal and University-designated). Vacation and personal days can be used as they are earned, and should be scheduled in advance with approval from the manager. Expand all Collapse all Vacation Days Eligibility Eligibility for time-off benefits varies based on whether an employee is a an Officer, Non-Union Support Staff or Union Support Staff, and whether they work full time or part time. Union Support Staff: Employees in a bargaining unit are governed by the time-off provisions of their respective bargaining agreement. Please review the applicable collective bargaining agreements for detailed information. Note: Employees in a bargaining unit are governed by the provisions of their respective bargaining agreement. Employees’ rights and obligations under applicable collective bargaining agreements are not affected by the Vacation policy. Academic Personnel (Officers of Instruction/Research/Libraries): Information regarding time off can be found in the Faculty Handbook. Accrual & Use Regular Non-Union Support Staff and Officers of Administration accrue vacation allowance on a fiscal year basis, from July 1 through June 30 and, with supervisory approval, may use the vacation as it is earned. However, the total allowance earned must be used by June 30 of the year following accrual. It may not accumulate nor may the employee receive pay in lieu of unused vacation except upon termination and then only for earned unused vacation days. Vacation pay will be based upon the employee's current base salary. Employees transferring to a new department may carry a maximum of one year of vacation accrual. Changes in an employee's accrual rate take effect the fiscal year following the employee’s anniversary date. Employees in a bargaining unit are governed by the provisions of their respective bargaining agreement. Employees' rights and obligations under applicable collective bargaining agreements are not affected by this policy. Vacation should generally be scheduled as a block of time based on operational needs. Staff may take vacation as it is earned with supervisory approval. However, it is recommended that vacation time for support staff be taken in no less than whole or half days. Vacation time for officers must be scheduled and taken in no less than whole or half days. As a supervisor or manager, you must be familiar with the Paid Vacation policy. Note: vacation is accrued only during months worked. NUSS Probationary Period Regular Non-Union Support Staff members accrue vacation allowance commencing with the completion of the probationary period. Vacation allowance for regular part-time non-union support staff shall be computed on a pro-rata basis in accordance with the number of hours regularly worked per week. Expand all Collapse all Earned Vacation Rate FT Officers of Administration Full-time Officers of Administration accrue vacation allowance commencing with the employee's hire date. Vacation allowance shall be earned at the rates listed below. Earned Vacation Rate Date of hire to 20 years Length of Service and Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service up to 23 days Earned Vacation Rate 20 years or more Length of Service and Maximum Allowance 2 1/3 days per completed month of service up to 28 days PT Officers of Administration Part-time Officers of Administration (must work 20 hours or more per week) accrue vacation allowance commencing with the employee's date of hire, at the rate of one day per month, up to a maximum of 10 days per fiscal year. A maximum of one year's accrual (up to 10 unused days) can be carried from one fiscal year to the next. 9, 10 & 11 Month Officers of Administration Length of Service Date of hire to 20 years 9-Month Position Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service up to 17 days 10-Month Position Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service up to 19 days 11-Month Position Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service up to 21 days Length of Service 20 years or more 9-Month Position Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service up to 21 days 10-Month Position Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service up to 23 days 11-Month Position Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service up to 25 days Regular FT NUSS (excluding Medical Center) Earned Vacation Rate 2 months but less than 15 years Length of Service and Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service following probationary period up to 20 days Earned Vacation Rate 15 years but less than 20 years Length of Service and Maximum Allowance days per completed month of service up to 22 days Earned Vacation Rate 20 years or more Length of Service and Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service up to 25 days Regular FT NUSS at Medical Center Earned Vacation Rate 2 months but less than 20 years Length of Service and Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service following probationary period up to 20 days Earned Vacation Rate 20 years or more Length of Service and Maximum Allowance 2 days per completed month of service up to 25 days Expand all Collapse all Personal Days All Employees Schools/Departments Following University Holiday Calendar Full-time employees in Schools/Departments that follow the University holiday calendar earn up to three personal days per year based on date of hire. Personal days are earned at the rate of one paid leave day for each four-month period worked starting from the date of hire. Medical Center Following Clinical Practice Calendar At the Medical Center, for those employees whose school/departments follow the Clinical Practice holiday calendar, two personal days are earned at the rate of one day for each six-month period worked starting from the date of hire. Additional personal days accumulate on the day when the employee works on a University-designated holiday. The number of personal days plus holidays will be the same regardless of which calendar is followed. Use of Personal Days Personal days may be used by an employee to observe religious holidays or for any other purpose. For Officers, personal days do not accumulate: they must be used within twelve months of being earned. For Non-Union Support Staff, personal days do not accumulate; they must be used within twelve months of being earned. Bargaining Unit Staff are governed by the provisions of their respective bargaining agreement. Employees’ rights and obligations under applicable collective bargaining agreements are not affected by this policy. Personal Days Policy Expand all Collapse all Holidays Legal & University-Designated Go to Holiday Calendar The University observes the following holidays: Legal Holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day University-Designated Holidays: Friday following Thanksgiving Two days selected by the University during the Christmas/New Year Season Medical Center Clinical Practice Holidays: Friday following Thanksgiving President’s Day Varies by year, based on patient care needs; personal days may be provided in lieu of the additional designated holidays Holidays policy HR Manager Toolkit Time Away From Work Workplace Accommodations Sick Time Vacation, Holidays & Personal Days Leave Management Office 615 West 131st Street, MC 8703 Studebaker 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 Telephone: 212-851-0698 Fax: 212-851-7069 Email: [email protected] Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close