Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Manage Personal Data Fraudulent Unemployment Insurance Claims Fraudulent Unemployment Insurance Claims Updated 05/07/2021 Cases of fraudulent Unemployment Insurance (UI) claims continue to be widespread across the country. New York State (NYS) has recently issued a fraud alert to protect New Yorkers from scammers who are using personal information to file fraudulent claims for unemployment benefits. Individuals who have been contacted by the NYS Department of Labor (DOL) about unemployment benefits they did not apply for must be aware of the possibility of identity theft. Expand all Collapse all Unemployment Insurance Fraud What you should know There have been several cases at the University where unemployment claims have been fraudulently submitted to the NYS Dept. of Labor (DOL) by unknown individuals posing as university employees. This scam is believed to be done by an off-shore, organized crime ring which is taking advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic and the overwhelming number of individuals making unemployment insurance claims. States have lost hundreds of millions of dollars in the last few weeks. It is very easy to make a UI claim with typically only a social security number, date of birth and the employer name needed. Colleges and universities, as well as governmental agencies, are being especially targeted in this criminal activity. How to report UI fraud Contact Columbia University Human Resources Report it to the NYS Dept. of Labor Unemployment Insurance Program You can also file a complaint online with the Office of the Attorney General or call 1-800-771-7755. Report it to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) also offers information about identity theft and protection: Consider whether you should file IRS Form 14039, Identity Theft Affidavit. A description of this event that could be used is: On [Date] my current employer notified me that an Unemployment Insurance Claim had been filed on my behalf. Unknown person(s) used my personal information, including SSN, to fraudulently make this claim. Here are a few things to keep in mind when contacting the NYS DOL: You may need to leave a voicemail message as they are very busy now with the pandemic. Although the DOL outgoing message sounds like it is to be used to report the fraud of an employer, a DOL Representative has confirmed that either number is fine to leave a message on. If a voicemail is left, a DOL Representative should return the call. The online link is a bit complicated and asks for a lot of details. However, you can also use their fax number (518-457-002 or 518-485-6172) and you should get a receipt. How to protect yourself Additional steps you can take to protect your identity: Download a free credit report from one or all of the credit reporting agencies to monitor for identity theft and consider putting a freeze on your credit Remove your name from mailing lists of pre-approved offers of credit for approximately six months. Visit OptOutPrescreen.com for details In addition, the NYS Attorney General's Office has provided the following tips: Be suspicious of anyone who calls you over the phone seeking money or personal information. If you owe money, you will receive a legitimate notice in writing that identifies the agency and the reason you owe money. Do not give out personal and sensitive information, including your social security number and bank account information, to individuals over the phone. In addition, ensure to independently verify the authenticity of the caller. Workplace Essentials Collective Bargaining Agreements Labor & Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary & Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take Vacation & Time Away Take a Leave of Absence Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close