Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Welcome Before You Arrive Before You Arrive Are you excited for your first day at Columbia University? You can prepare for your first day now, and start the onboarding process before arriving on campus. On your first day, bring your personal identification documents to complete required paperwork. Your manager and Human Resource (HR) representative will be ready to provide guidance throughout your new career, especially in the beginning. You can get a head start by completing section 1 of the Form I-9. Within the first 3 business days from your start date, you must go in person to an I-9 center to complete section 2. If you are a Student Casual Employee, visit the Student Casual Employees page for additional information. Expand all Collapse all Prepare for Your First Day COVID-19 Vaccine Mandate Compliance COVID-19 vaccination is mandatory for all University students, faculty, and staff—this includes officers of instruction, officers of research, officers of the libraries, student officers, officers of administration, union and non-union support staff. Full vaccination is to be completed as soon as possible. It is also strongly recommended that all faculty and staff be up to date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, i.e., that they have received their recommended booster doses in addition to the primary series. While there is currently no university deadline for uploading first booster dose documentation, we encourage all faculty, staff and students who have received a COVID-19 vaccine booster to upload that documentation as well. Individuals who do not submit their primary vaccination documentation or have not received an approved medical or religious exemption will be unable to access campus. Submit Vaccine Documentation: Once you have been assigned a University Network ID (UNI) by your department, you can follow the vaccine/booster documentation upload instructions from the University's COVID-19 website. Request Medical or Religious Exemption from Vaccination Requirement: If you plan to request a medical or religious exemption, please use the links below to complete the appropriate form. Medical Exemption Form Religious Exemption Form Once the form is complete: If you already have a UNI, please follow the instructions on the COVID-19 ReopenCU Checklist under Apply for an Exemption to Vaccination and/or Booster. If you do not have a UNI yet, please send the completed form, along with all required documentation, to [email protected]. Columbia ID and UNI A Columbia University ID card is required to enter most buildings on campus, ride the University’s shuttles and access benefits like discounted tickets. Your manager will submit the necessary paperwork. Until you have an ID card, to enter a building you may need to present a valid photo ID and provide the name and phone number of your manager. Every Columbia employee has a University Network ID (UNI). Your UNI, which will include your initials and random numbers, is used to provide access to the University's systems and services. Your manager will work with Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) to assign you a UNI. Hiring Managers and Human Resources Your hiring manager is your first point of contact when you join Columbia. Some departments have an HR representative who will reach out to you before you arrive. Otherwise, go to Ask HR with any questions: Ask HR Phone: 212-851-2888 Hours: Monday, Tuesday and Thursday: 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Wednesday: 9:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Friday: 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Know Your Employee Group Every employee is part of an employment group that determines how your position is managed in Columbia University systems, including benefits and salary grades. Check your offer letter or ask your hiring manager if you are unsure of your employment group. Find out more: What Is My Employment Group? What to Bring on Your First Day Identification Documents A portion of your first day will be spent completing necessary forms that verify your employability and get you into the Columbia system so you can be paid and receive benefits. To complete the required forms, you must bring identification documentation. Please refer to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services website for acceptable documents you can bring to confirm your identity and authorization to work. Forms If you have completed any portion of your I-9 and E-verify or tax forms (W-4 form, IT2104 form or IT2104.1 form), bring and give them to your hiring manager or HR representative. Water Bottle and/or Coffee Mug Reusable drinking containers are part of the Sustainable Columbia initiative. You can help make a difference—and be prepared if your work location's pantry is free of disposable cups—by bringing your own reusable container. Navigating Campuses and Transportation Options Faculty and staff arrive on campus daily in a variety of ways—walking, taking the subway or buses, driving and parking on campus, and transit connections from railways and buses outside of Manhattan. Planning ahead for your daily commute should include not only the travel time but walking to your campus building from subway stations, shuttles stops or parking garages that may be several blocks away. Columbia is spread across several campuses with interconnecting shuttles. Your office may be in one building, while another colleague could be across campus or on another campus. Take a moment to familiarize yourself with Columbia’s expansive campuses. Guides to help you determine your best commute: Visit Columbia Transportation Take a Virtual Tour View Campus Maps and Driving Directions Welcome to Columbia University Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards & Email Orientation & New Hire Info Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close