Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Self-care: What it is, why it’s important and how your Columbia Benefits can help you take care of yourself. Taking care of yourself is key to balancing the many moving parts of your life. Expand all Collapse all Self-care Where do you fall on your to-do list? Adding self-care to your to-do list and making it a priority can help you manage the other priorities in your life. That may seem backwards but it’s true. Self-care refuels you and helps you stay healthy so that you can be your best at home, at work and at play. Caring for yourself may include coping with stress, nurturing your emotional well-being, getting better sleep, managing your weight and paying attention to nutrition. Self-care is as unique as you are. Go to our well-being page for resources on nurturing your own well-being, including Work/Life programs, Physical Fitness and the Employee Assistance Program (where you can find Life Coaches and answers to almost everything!). Caregivers Week Join the Office of Work/Life the week of February 11 for their first dedicated CAREGIVERS WEEK—with workshops on Long-Distance Elder Caregiving; Finding Care for Young Children; two sessions on Emotional Intelligence: Improving Your Professional and Personal Life; and a Valentine’s Day focus on Taking Care of Yourself. Visit the Work/Life website to learn more about support for caring for yourself and others, including breastfeeding support, back-up care, school and child care search, wellness initiatives and more. Wellness coaching You’ve got a helping hand. Like other important journeys, the path to well-being can be easier when you have a partner. Your Columbia benefits include free access to professional, experienced wellness coaches for help with sleep problems, stress, quitting smoking, exercise planning and much more. Talk to a wellness coach one-on-one, or get started on your own online. Learn more about the different types of support available through your Columbia benefits. February is Heart Health Month Don’t wait for doctor’s orders: a healthy heart should be a priority regardless of your age. According to the CDC, heart disease is the leading cause of death in the U.S. for both women and men. February is Heart Health Month, an ideal time to consider these seven steps to better heart health. Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close