Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Human Resource Management Empowering a Community of Excellence Search form Search Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Menu Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs HRM CMS Documentation Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Search Search form Search Home Learn & Develop Talent Development System Talent Development System What is Talent Development, or MyTalent? Talent Development, or MyTalent, is a set of integrated organizational HR processes designed to attract, develop, motivate, and retain productive, engaged employees. The goal of talent development is to create a high-performance, sustainable organization that meets its strategic and operational goals and objectives. The Human Resource Management department has created a framework to help members of the KU community understand the relationships between various HR processes supported by our office. NEW! MyTalent system Home Page KU’s MyTalent system has a new look as of September 21, 2018. The vendor update of our cloud-based talent development system includes a more modern look and easier navigation. The new home dashboard provides quick access to information simply by clicking on tiles under Performance and Learning categories. The dashboard also features a To Do section, just as today, although with more information available at a glance. And, there is a News tile that links to important HR-related news and updates. Supervisors also have access to their team information right from the home dashboard. The vendor has worked to streamline the system and make it simple and easy to use. In addition to the visual changes, the separate Public Profile and Employee Profile in the previous system have been consolidated. With the update, employees have only one profile. You and your supervisor can see your detailed employee information, while other employees can only see basic information such as your name, department and job title. You can add relevant information to your Employee Profile yourself, including education and work experience, professional memberships, volunteer service, and more. An optional video tutorial on the home dashboard (mytalent.ku.edu) will provide a brief tour of the updated system and new features. Step-by-step instructions also will be available on the home dashboard for help in navigating the new system. What is Learning Management? Process of establishing training goals and plans that link to individual goal attainment, career planning, and possible succession planning. The University provides professional development courses to improve core competencies, enhance job performance, and encourage personal growth for faculty and staff. You may browse the available course offerings and register for courses at the Learning Management module -of Talent Development. What you will find includes: a searchable electronic course catalog, organized by Subject Area and alphabetically. a personalized learning plan, showing courses that are recommended or selected for your role. a history of the courses for which you have successfully completed a calendar of upcoming training events Many of the courses are offered as a benefit to employees of the university. This means that full- or part-time employees of the university may attend these courses at no charge. Those courses that include a materials or participation fee, this information is included in the catalog. Learning Management System User Guide Video User Guide What is Performance Management? An ongoing, continuous process of communicating and clarifying job responsibilities, priorities, performance expectations, and development planning that optimize an individual’s performance and aligns with organizational strategic goals. When people hear the words performance management, the annual evaluation may be their first thought. However, an effective performance management process involves much more than just the annual evaluation. Human Resources has established modules to assist in managing employee performance. Human Resources recommends in addition to setting goals at the beginning of the evaluation period and evaluating performance at the end of the evaluation period, that feedback sessions are held throughout the year. These meetings include: Initial Meeting: Goal Setting and Development Planning – During the first meeting, at the beginning of the evaluation period, the employee and supervisor will mutually develop goals that align directly with the goals of the department, school and university. A development plan that supports goal completion will also be developed and agreed upon. Quarterly Feedback Sessions (April, July, October for an annual evaluation period) – During the feedback sessions, the employee and supervisor will discuss the employee’s progress toward goal completion and any support that may be needed. Final Meeting: Annual Review – During the final meeting at the end of the evaluation period, the employee and supervisor will discuss overall performance and goals and development plan outcomes. Need Help? Ask Us! Submit an Inquiry Talent Development Login Quick Links Apply For A Job Benefits Health Insurance Hiring Process Holidays HR/Pay Login New Employee Packet Search Committee Login Tuition Assistance Vacation Leave Search for HRM Policies Search for Policies and Forms Visit the Policy Office for more information. HRM Calendars HR Pay Donate to Staff Emergency Assistance Fund KU Today 2022 Plan Rates & Comparison Chart Contact Human Resource Management hrdept@ku.edu 785-864-4946 Department of Human Resource Management University of Kansas Carruth O'Leary Hall, Room 103 1246 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045-7521 HR Intranet Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login