Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Manage Life Changes Leaving the University Leaving the University Columbia is committed to managing separations from the University equitably and fairly to support you. For complete information about leaving the university and your rights, responsibilities, and benefits, see the Termination of Employment Policy. Expand all Collapse all What To Do Resigning A resignation is a voluntary termination initiated by the employee. Non-Union Support Staff are expected to give two weeks' written notice of a resignation. Officers of Administration and Officers of the Libraries are expected to give four weeks' notice and provide written notification of a resignation. Upon completing the specified notice period, employees who resign receive vacation pay for earned, unused vacation days and personal days. Employees who do not provide such notice may forfeit this pay. See the Termination of Employment Policy for more information. Involuntary Termination All involuntary terminations must be discussed with CUHR prior to a department’s notification to the employee. In the case of any involuntary terminations for staff covered by a collective bargaining agreement, departments must consult with the Office of Labor Relations prior to communicating with the employee. Eligibility for rehire is determined in consultation with CUHR based on the facts and circumstances of the termination. Officers of Administration, Officers of the Libraries and Non-Union Support Staff who are involuntarily terminated will be paid for earned and unused vacation and personal days. Officers of Administration, Officers of the Libraries, and Non-Union Support Staff are expected to comply with the University’s policies and procedures, and the directions of their supervisor(s). Job Eliminations Job elimination is a termination initiated by the University because the job or position is discontinued due to a lack of work, significant change of work/responsibilities, or a lack of funds. In the case where a department must select a position for elimination with multiple incumbents, consideration should be given to, but not limited to: relevant skills, ability, job performance, and experience, when determining which position or incumbent will be eliminated. All job eliminations must be discussed in advance with CUHR to ensure compliance with University policies. Severance Allowance Severance allowance is intended to provide transitional support for Officers of Administration, Officers of the Libraries, and Non-Union Support Staff whose jobs have been eliminated. An employee’s amount of severance is based on the severance allowance schedule included in this policy. Severance allowance is contingent upon signing a full release of all claims against the University that relate to the employee’s employment. Severance payments are in the form of a lump sum payment, less applicable taxes and other appropriate withholdings. Temporary positions (full-time or part-time) and part-time positions with schedules less than twenty (20) hours per week are not entitled to severance allowance. Union employee should consult your collective bargaining agreement. For Severance Allowances and Schedules see the Termination of Employment Policy Unemployment Insurance Unemployment insurance provides a weekly benefit for people who are out of work through no fault of their own. If you become unemployed and want to apply for unemployment insurance benefits, call 1-888-209-8124 (if you live in NY state) or 1-877-358-5306 (for non-NY state residents). Record of Employment Form You may also apply online at www.labor.state.ny.us. Workplace Essentials Manage Life Changes Adoption Assistance Program Surrogacy Assistance Program Leaving the University COBRA Medical & Dental Rates Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close