Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Retiree Benefits FAQs - Retiree FAQs - Retiree Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for prospective and current retirees of Columbia University. Expand all Collapse all FAQs Officers Q. How can I learn more about planning for my retirement? A. The Columbia University Benefits department sponsors retirement planning workshops several times a year. Workshops are designed to give participants an overview of the retirement planning process and provide education on topics including taxation, income requirements and estate planning. You may register on the Benefits website under “Events.” In addition to the workshops, the University’s investment carriers provide one-on-one counseling with participants to assist with decision making on investments and personal planning for retirement. You can register at the appropriate vendor websites. The Vanguard Group: www.meetvanguard.com; 800-662-0106, ext. 14500 TIAA: https://www.tiaa.org/public/support/contact-us/consultations-seminars; 800-732-8353 Q. I am thinking of retiring. What do I need to do? A. Contact the Benefits Service Center at [email protected] or call 212-851-7000 to discuss your options or to schedule a meeting with a benefits specialist. Faculty should also contact The Office of Faculty Retirement for information on transitioning to retirement   Q. Am I eligible for Retiree Medical coverage as an Officer? A. You may be eligible for this coverage if you leave the University on or after age 55 and have completed at least 10 years of service with the University. Contact the Benefits Service Center at [email protected] or call 212-851-7000 to discuss your options or to schedule a meeting with a benefits specialist. Q. I am turning age 65 and still working at Columbia University. Do I need to apply for Medicare? A. No. You do not need to apply for Medicare if you are still employed by the University and eligible for benefits. If you are 65 or older and decide to retire, contact Medicare at www.medicare.gov or call 877-267-2323 60-90 days ahead of your retirement date to discuss your options. Q. I am turning age 65 and am about to retire. Do I need to apply for Medicare if I elect a Columbia University Retiree Medical Plan? A. To enroll in a Columbia University retiree medical plan, you must enroll in Medicare Parts A and B. The Supplemental plans offered by Columbia University are secondary to Medicare. These plans also include creditable prescription drug coverage so there is no need to enroll in Medicare Part D (prescription drug coverage). Q. What is Medicare Cross-over? A. All members (retirees and their eligible dependents) covered by the Columbia University Retiree Indemnity Medical Plan and the UHC Choice Plus 100 Retiree Plan – Post 65 who are 65 and over and/or on long-term disability for 24 months, are eligible to receive Medicare Cross-over coverage. Medicare Cross-over is how Medicare, your primary insurance coverage, sends processed claims directly to your secondary insurance coverage. Your secondary carrier then processes the remaining portion of your claim and sends you an Explanation of Benefits (EOB) and any payments owed directly to you or your provider/facility. Q. What do I need to do to enroll in Medicare Cross-over as a new enrollee in either the Indemnity or the Choice Plus 100 Plan – Post 65? A. Nothing. Once you are enrolled in one of the supplemental plans, you are automatically enrolled in the Crossover program. Q. What options do I have as a retiree for dental coverage? A. If you are enrolled in the Aetna Dental Plan you may continue this coverage for up to 18 months under COBRA. You will receive a COBRA packet in the mail and have 30 days in which to enroll. If you are not enrolled in the Aetna Dental Plan you can seek services from the Columbia Dentists which may be discounted. Q. Can I use my life insurance after I leave Columbia University? A. You can convert your life insurance coverage to an individual policy by contacting Cigna at 800-423-1282. Rates will be based on your current age. Evidence of insurability will not be required as long as you apply within 31 days after retirement. Support Staff Q. How can I learn more about planning for my retirement? A. The Columbia University Benefits department sponsors retirement planning workshops several times a year. Workshops are designed to give participants an overview of the retirement planning process and provide education on topics including taxation, income requirements and estate planning. You may register on the Benefits website under “Events.” In addition to the workshops, the University’s investment carriers provide one-on-one counseling with participants to assist with decision making on investments and personal planning for retirement. You can register at the appropriate vendor websites. The Vanguard Group: www.meetvanguard.com; 800-662-0106, ext. 14500 TIAA: www.tiaa.org/; 800-732-8353 Q. I am thinking of retiring. What do I need to do? A. Contact the Benefits Service Center at [email protected] or call 212-851-7000 to discuss your options by phone or to schedule a meeting with a benefits specialist.   Q. As a member of Columbia's Support Staff, am I eligible for Retiree Medical coverage? A. You may be eligible for Support Staff Retiree Medical benefits if you leave the University on or after age 55 and have completed at least 10 years of continuous benefits-eligible service with the University after the age of 45. Q. I am turning age 65 and still working at Columbia University. Do I need to apply for Medicare? A. No. You do not need to apply for Medicare if you are still employed by the University and eligible for benefits. If you are 65 or older and decide to retire, contact Medicare at www.medicare.gov or call 877-267-2323 60-90 days ahead of your retirement date to discuss your options. Q. I am turning age 65 and am about to retire. Do I need to apply for Medicare if I elect a Columbia University Retiree Medical Plan? A. To enroll in a Columbia University retiree medical plan, you must enroll in Medicare Parts A and B. The Supplemental plans offered by Columbia University are secondary to Medicare. These plans also include prescription drug coverage so there is no need to enroll in Medicare Part D (prescription drug coverage). Q. What options do I have as a retiree for dental coverage? A. If you are enrolled in the Dental Plan you may continue this coverage for up to 18 months under COBRA. You will receive a COBRA packet in the mail and have 30 days in which to enroll. Q. Can I use my life insurance after I leave Columbia University? A. You can convert your life insurance coverage to an individual policy by contacting Cigna at 800-423-1282. Rates will be based on your current age. Evidence of insurability will not be required as long as you apply within 31 days after retirement. Retiree Benefits Prospective Retiree - Support Staff Prospective Retiree - Officers Current Retiree - Support Staff Current Retiree - Officers Resources Retirement Checklist Eligibility Making Changes to Your Benefits Retirement Workshops Understanding Medicare FAQs Retiree Contacts Health Advocate Re-Employment Employee Assistance Program Well-being Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close