Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Eligibility to Work: I-9 Form Eligibility to Work: I-9 Form Columbia University complies with federal laws and regulations concerning verification of identity and employment eligibility and associated recordkeeping for employees hired to work in the United States. Columbia University is an E-Verify employer. As an E-Verify employer, Columbia participates in the federal government's E-Verify program, which ensures that the University is compliant with e-verify requirements as they relate to federal grants. In addition, participating in E-Verify ensures that the University can continue to hire scholars on F-1 Visas who are utilizing the STEM OPT program. With respect to new hires and rehires, the E-Verify process is completed in conjunction with a new hire's completion of the Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification upon commencement of employment. E-Verify is not used as a tool to pre-screen candidates. Columbia uses an online system, I-9 Management (provided by Equifax), to collect and process the required documentation from new hires to comply with these laws. There are I-9 Service Centers on the Morningside campus, Manhattanville, the Columbia University Irving Medical Center, and at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. To view the University's I-9 Policy, visit the University Policies Site. Expand all Collapse all Work Authorization I-9 Service Centers Morningside 210 Kent Hall Manhattanville Studebaker 622 West 132nd Street - 4th Floor Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 61 Route 9W Administration Building, Room 208 Palisades, NY 10964 CUIMC Human Resources Georgian Building, 2nd Floor 617 West 168th Street Medicine - PH 8 West Room 862 Mailman School of Public Health - 600 W. 168th, 7th Floor Pediatrics - Children's Hospital CHC Room 104 Surgery - PH 14, Room 105 Psychiatry - 1051 Riverside Drive, Unit 5 OB/GYN - PH 16021 College of Dental Medicine - P&S 7th Floor Neurology - 710 W. 168th, 9th Floor room 100 New Hire Requirements The Form I-9 is used for verifying the identity and employment authorization of individuals hired for employment in the United States. Section 1 of the Form I-9 must be completed after an offer of employment is accepted, but no later than the first day of employment. Section 2 must be completed no later than the third business day after your start date. Section 2 of the form must be completed in person at one of the University’s I-9 center. E-Verify is integrated with the I-9 process and will be completed at the same time section 2 is completed. The address on the I-9 does not necessarily need to match the address on the tax forms (W-4, W2, etc.). The employee should indicate the address of where s/he is staying at that point in time when completing the I-9. Therefore, it can be a hotel address, the address of a friend’s house, etc. However, the address on the I-9 should never be the place of employment. Processing I-9 forms For all Faculty and Staff: Direct the new hire to complete Section 1 of the online I-9 Form and sign the form electronically after they have accepted the offer, but no later than the first day of employment. The employee should review the list of acceptable documents for Section 2; the list is provided upon completion of Section 1 online. Please note: expired documents are not acceptable by order of the Department of Homeland Security. Ensure that the employee goes to one of the I-9 Service Centers and completes section 2 with a Columbia University representative no later than the third business day after his or her start date. The Columbia University representative refers the employee to the list of acceptable documents for Section 2 and advises him or her to present original unexpired documents: either one from List A OR one from List B and one from List C. In carrying out this step, the Columbia University representative cannot tell the employee which documents to present or which documents are preferable. Columbia University representative examines the original documents provided by the employee to verify that they are on the list of acceptable documents, that they appear genuine and relate to the employee, and that they evidence the employee's unexpired employment eligibility. Employee must be physically present when Section 2 is being completed. The Columbia University representative reviews Section 1 for accuracy and completeness and completes Section 2. Columbia University representative fully completes Section 2 “Employer Review and Verification" with the pertinent information from the employee's documents, including document numbers, issuing authority and expiration dates, if any. Columbia University representative electronically signs, dates and completes Section 2 "Employer Certification" including the date of employment. E-Verify is initiated automatically after Section 2 is completed. For detailed information on the possible results of the E-Verify process, see E-Verify Process Summary from Equifax. Note: On the very rare occasion when a paper I-9 must be completed, please ensure that you are using the most current version of the form. If you require a paper I-9, you can print a copy of the Form I-9 directly from the Department of Homeland Security. Rehire Requirements An employee who leaves the University and is subsequently rehired, regardless of the length of separation, must within the first 3 business days either: Complete a new Form I-9 (if the prior I-9 was completed more than 3 years ago); or Complete section 3, with the rehire date. New documentation for completing section 3 is only required if the prior work authorization document is expired Certain academic officers, including part-time faculty, officers of research, and student officers are marked as "terminated" in PAC at the end of their current appointment even though they will be reappointed for the following academic year. This is due to the way the current University Payroll and Human Resources systems operate and those individuals are not considered a “termination” requiring a new I-9, as the individual is not considered to have had a break in service for I-9 purposes. If the department has a question about whether or not an individual requires a new I-9 or not, please contact Kathryn Viola ([email protected]). Remote Hires When hiring an individual who will be working outside of the tristate area, departments can work with the employee to designate an authorized external institution to complete the employee's I-9 on behalf of Columbia University. Section 2 of the Form I-9 must be completed within 3 business days of the individual’s hire date. Remote I-9 set-up requires at least 4 business days advanced notice The departmental HR representative must reach out to CUHR to arrange for a remote I-9 by contacting Kathryn Viola at [email protected]. Legal Violation & Fines The University is subject to periodic audits by the US Federal Government and is subject to fines for incorrect I-9s. Fines could be incurred for mistakes like information omissions, completing an I-9 after the date of hire as well as more egregious offenses like not having an I-9 on file for an employee or hiring an illegal immigrant to work (meaning having constructive knowledge of a violation). HR Manager Toolkit Recruiting & Hiring TalentLink Staff Search Planning Staff Job Posting Conducting a Staff Search Position Management Hiring Process Background Checks I-9 Form Required Hiring Documents Onboarding Temporary Staffing Academic Appointments I-9 Form Portal Related Documents I-9 Form Quick Guide E-Verify Process Summary from Equifax Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close