Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Managing Salary and Pay Managing Salary and Pay Hiring managers are responsible for offering and agreeing to salaries for new employees that are in accordance with the hiring range for the grade (for officers and non-union support staff) or as agreed to in collective bargaining agreements (for union support staff). At the time of hire/re-hire for all faculty and staff, the New York State Department of Labor requires that the University provide a written notice to faculty and staff about the terms and conditions of employment related to rate of pay, regular pay cycle and, for non-exempt employees, rate of overtime pay. Please see NYS Law 195 for more information. See Salary Information Chart Expand all Collapse all Salary & Pay Salary by Employee Type Administrative Officers and Support Staff When making salary decisions for administrative officers and non-union support staff, please consider the following: University salary ranges: salaries for employees must fall within the hiring range for the grade. Please consult with your Client Manager for the grade ranges. Internal equity within the school/admin unit: consider whether the salary being considered is justifiable and equitable based on the individual's qualifications and background as compared to current staff. Also consider the gender/ethnicity/age of existing staff to ensure that there is no real or perceived bias. Union Support Staff Salaries for employees covered by collective bargaining agreements are negotiated between the University and the respective union. All pay policies, annual increases, overtime and other wage and salary topics are covered in the collective bargaining agreement for each union. Please refer to the appropriate contract for rates and effective dates. Academic Officers Compensation information for all academic officers (officers of instruction, officers of research, officers of the libraries) can be found in the Faculty Handbook(link is external). Pay Frequency Pay frequency determines what time of the month a particular person's pay is processed. Use this chart to determine the appropriate rate code to enter on the payroll paperwork. Pay Group MO1 Pay Frequency Semi-monthly Description Academic and student officers & UDA Rate Code CNTRCT Employee Type Salaried Pay Group MO1 Pay Frequency Semi-monthly Description Exempt Administrative officers Rate Code NAANNL Employee Type Salaried Pay Group MO2 Pay Frequency Semi-monthly Description Stipend for student officers Rate Code NAANNL Employee Type Salaried Pay Group MO3 Pay Frequency Semi-monthly Description Tax treaty employees Rate Code NAANNL Employee Type Salaried Pay Group BW1 Pay Frequency Biweekly Description Support Staff - 2110, NUSS, SSA, 1199 Clerical, 1199 HH Rate Code NAANNL Employee Type Hourly Pay Group BW1 Pay Frequency Biweekly Description Hourly Officers Rate Code NAANNL Employee Type Hourly Pay Group BW2 Pay Frequency Biweekly Description VHO, Casual & Work Study Rate Code NAHRLY Employee Type Hourly Pay Group WK1 Pay Frequency Weekly Description Support Staff - 241 TWU, 1199 Cafe, 32B/J, Local 100 Rate Code NAHRLY Employee Type Hourly Pay Group WK2 Pay Frequency Weekly Description Financial Aid Stipend - No Position/Salary, Honoraria Rate Code NAHRLY Employee Type Hourly Pay Group RET Pay Frequency Weekly Description Retirees Rate Code NAANNL Employee Type Salaried Employee Classification (FLSA) New York State increased the 2018 salary exemption threshold to $1,225 per week ($58,500 annually). Therefore, beginning December 31, 2018, administrative employees earning less than $1,225 per week will be eligible for overtime pay if they work more than 40 hours in a week. An employee must earn $1,125 per week to be exempt from overtime, regardless of the number of hours worked. The New York State salary threshold does not apply to employees working in a bona fide “professional” capacity, including those employees who meet the FLSA definition of “learned professional,” “creative professional,” or teacher exemptions (e.g., certain positions administered by the Provost’s Office). What does this mean for Columbia University? The increased salary exemption threshold impacts Officers of the Libraries and Administration* Full-time Officers of the Libraries and Administration: Salary increases must be processed to bring the employee up to at least the minimum for their salary grade (e.g., GR 10 / GR 103 must earn at least $58,500). Part-time officers of the Libraries and Administration: Part-time officers who earn less than $1,125 per week ($58,500 annually) will be converted to the new Hourly Officer employment category. What does this mean for full-time officers? Full-time Officers of the Libraries and Administration should receive a salary increase effective January 1, 2019 that brings them to at least the minimum salary for their grade, which is above the updated New York State earnings threshold. What does this mean for part-time officers? Part-time Officers of the Libraries and Administration earning less than $1,125 per week will be moved to the bi-weekly payroll and will be classified as Hourly Officers beginning January 1, 2019. Hourly Officers are required to submit bi-weekly timesheets in accordance with their local department practice for timesheets and will be paid every other Friday beginning January 11, 2019. This change to Hourly Officers will not affect the benefits that are available to part-time Officers of Administration. Questions See Overtime FAQs Lenny Ruiz ([email protected]): general questions and administrative appointments on the CUIMC Campus Deb Fenocchi ([email protected]): general questions and administrative appointments on the Morningside Campus *Officers of Administration working a 9, 10 or 11-month employment period may still be exempt from the overtime rule even though they earn less than $58,500 annually, as long as they earn at least $1,125 per week in any week in which they actually perform work. For example, a 10-month employee earning $48,750 annually will remain exempt provided they continue to meet the duties test because they earn more than $1,125/week for their 10-month assignment ($48,750/43.3 weeks = $1,125 per week). Fringe Benefit Rates Columbia University provides a full array of benefits to its faculty and staff that is either fully or partially funded by the University, including benefit plan related expenses (medical, retirement, etc.). To fund the Columbia-paid benefits, the University applies a fringe benefit rate to salaries as they are paid and charged in the labor accounting system. For complete information on the fringe rates, visit the Finance Gateway. Pay Calendars The Pay Calendar is a campus specific chart listing of all fiscal year pay dates. The calendar also includes key dates and deadlines for electronic or paper transaction submissions and when the paychecks can be viewed by the employees online. 2020-2021 Morningside Payroll Calendar 2020-2021 CUIMC Payroll Calendar CUIMC Payroll Calendar: 2019-2020 Morningside Payroll Calendar: 2019-2020 Electronic and Paperwork Due Dates In order for a transaction to be processed in a specific pay period, please refer to the transaction processing dates on the payroll calendar. If the transaction is submitted or approved after the deadline, it will be processed in the next on-cycle payroll for that pay group. Helpful Tips Plan Ahead. Submit your electronic transactions or paperwork to your approver(s) with enough time for the approver(s) to review, approve, and deliver it to the HRPC (either electronically or via paper) by the due date. Approvers: For electronic transactions, check the worklist and workflow status pages to determine the location of transactions. For paper transactions, you may contact your Final Approver to obtain the date that the paperwork was signed. The final approvers for each campus differ depending on the type of transaction. Reference the Workflow Job Aids for more information. NYS Law 195 (Notice of Pay Rate) Notice of Acknowledgement of Pay Rate and Payday under Section 195 of New York State Labor Law The New York State Department of Labor requires that all New York State employers provide written notice to employees about the terms and conditions of employment related to rate of pay, regular pay cycle and, for non-exempt employees, rate of overtime pay. These notices must be provided upon hire or rehire or when there are changes in pay rate and are available here. Employers are required to provide the form in the employee’s primary language. Current available languages are: English (default), Spanish, Chinese, Korean, Creole, Polish and Russian. Departments should contact their HR Client Manager to obtain a form in a language other than English. Forms: NYS DOL Law 195 Form Non-Exempt NYS DOL Law 195 Form Officers Casual Hire Form & NYS 195 Information: NYS Labor Law 195(1): Cover Letter NYS Labor Law 195(1): FAQs for Academic Personnel NYS Labor Law 195(1): Non-Academic FAQs The law applies to the following employees: All Academic personnel (excluding Student Officers and Postdoctoral Fellows) Officers of Administration (both regular and temporary) Union and Non-Union Support Staff (both regular and temporary) Casuals Work-Study When to Provide the NYS 195 Form: The notice must be provided to all new employees as part of the new hire process, and a signed copy must be included with the new hire paperwork (either attached to the template-based hire or paper PAF). Upon change in appointment (e.g., from casual to support staff, from student officer to faculty or officer of research). Before a change in pay rate: when the salary changes for any reason (e.g., reappointments, changes in appointment, promotions/upgrades). Faculty and officers of research who are reappointed for periods of less than a year must receive a new wage notification for each reappointment. Time Entry Form The Time Entry Form is used in rare situations where time for an employee cannot be submitted via FFE or another approved time entry system. Use the time entry form when a new casual employee does not appear in FFE, although the Template-Based Hire electronic form/paperwork has been sent to the HRPC and the employee needs to be paid for their work. Go to Time Entry Form Verify that the form is complete, sign it, and route it to the appropriate approver. The final approver will route it to HRPC. FFE Codes If there is an "X" in the box below, then use FFE for that transaction code. If there is a "TEF" in the box, please use the Time Entry Form for that transaction code. Code AD Description Regular hours Support Staff X Casuals X Weekly-Union X Code AW Description Absent without pay Support Staff X Casuals X Weekly-Union X Code 1 Description Overtime: Straight Time Support Staff X Casuals Weekly-Union X Code 2 Description Overtime: Double Time Support Staff X Casuals Weekly-Union X Code 3 Description Overtime: Triple Time Support Staff X Casuals Weekly-Union X Code H Description Overtime: Half Time Support Staff X Casuals Weekly-Union X Code J Description Overtime: Time and a Half Support Staff X Casuals X Weekly-Union X Code K Description Overtime: Double and a Half Time Support Staff X Casuals Weekly-Union X Code 20 Description Shift Differential (% of Rate) Support Staff X Casuals Weekly-Union X Code S1 Description Sick Pay (R1) Support Staff TEF Casuals Weekly-Union X Code 12 Description Sick Pay (R2) Support Staff X Casuals Weekly-Union X Code V1 Description Vacation Pay (R1) Support Staff TEF Casuals Weekly-Union X Code 19 Description Vacation Pay (R2) Support Staff X Casuals Weekly-Union X Code ST Description Scrub Time Support Staff Casuals Weekly-Union X Code RB Description Red Bag Disposal Support Staff Casuals Weekly-Union X Code SW Description Snow Removal Support Staff Casuals Weekly-Union X Code CL Description Plain Clothes Support Staff Casuals Weekly-Union X Code SR Description Shift Differential (flat) Support Staff TEF Casuals Weekly-Union X Code ME Description Meal Money Support Staff Casuals Weekly-Union X Code 13 Description Shirt/Shoe Money Support Staff Casuals Weekly-Union X Code AF Description Regular (flat amount) Support Staff Casuals Weekly-Union X Code OF Description Overtime (flat amount) Support Staff Casuals Weekly-Union X Check Address The check address is the delivery location for an employee's paycheck; usually the location of the Departmental Administrator. The check sequence code indicates the employee's department and location where their paper check would be delivered. While the majority of Columbia University employees are on direct deposit, there are employees who receive a paper paycheck and advice. In the interest of security and accountability, we do not send the paper paychecks and advices directly to employees at their office address or work location. Instead, we use a check address that is assigned to a department rather than an individual. Most employees in the same department will have the same check address. Each department authorizes an individual, usually the departmental administrator, to receive and/or distribute checks and advices to employees. Additionally, the authorized department representative is the primary contact for the HRPC and Payroll departments in case of a missing check/advice or a reversal/reissue. To view employee check address in manager self-service: click on the check address link in the "additional information" section on the Employee Information page. To move an employee to a different check address: if an employee is transferred to a new department and administered by a new DA, the check address must be reviewed and updated when necessary on the PAF to transfer the employee. The Check Sequence Code must be included on all Columbia hiring forms (electronic or paper) that you submit, including: Template-based hire Personnel action form (PAF) Nomination form Casual employment form Work-study form Reference the Check Sequence Codes job aid for a complete listing. Check Address Form Check Sequence Code Modify or Add a Check Address The Check Address Form is used to request changes to a check address for the following reasons: Update an existing check address. If the DA or person distributing the checks leaves the department or changes their physical location, you must update the Check Address to include either the new DA’s name or the continuing DA’s new location. This will affect all employees using that Check Sequence Code. Request a new check address (very rare). In the case of a new building or department, you can request that a new Check Address be created. Your request will be reviewed. You will be contacted when a decision is made. Please note that very few of these requests are approved. Columbia Addresses Overview PAC requires three addresses for every employee that receives pay. The three addresses are home, office and check. Additionally, for non-resident aliens, a local mailing address is also required. Please refer to the chart below for further clarification of the different address types. Address Type Home address Required? Yes Description The permanent home address of the employee Address Type Mailing address Required? Optional Description The local home address of a student, visiting faculty/researcher or non-resident alien Address Type Office address Required? Yes Description The work location where the employee receives Columbia mail Address Type Check address Required? Yes Description The delivery location for the employee's checks, usually the location of the DA Direct Deposit See Direct Deposit Employee page HR Manager Toolkit Workplace Management Time & Attendance Vacation Balances & Org Charts Personal Data Promotions, Transfers & Retirement Layoffs & Terminations Managing Salary & Pay Salary Changes & Adjustments Compensation & Salary Accounting Flexible Work Arrangements Performance Management Workplace Conduct Management Related Documents 2021-2022 Morningside Payroll Calendar 2021-2022 CUIMC Payroll Calendar 2020-2021 Morningside Payroll Calendar 2020-2021 CUIMC Payroll Calendar Check Address Form Check Sequence Code Law 195 Form Officers FY2019 Bi-Weekly PAC Timesheet Schedule Law 195 Form Non-Exempt Law 195 - Academic FAQs Law 195 - Non-Academic FAQs Law 195 - Casual Hire Cover Letter Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close