Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Manage Work Time Manage Work Time You manage your work time based on your role, and your School or Departments decision on remote work. Certain employees may be required to submit timesheets and attendance. The University may provide employees the opportunity for flexible work arrangements with your supervisor's approval if it fits into the needs of the department. Expand all Collapse all Timesheets Officers Full-time officers do not submit timesheets. However, Officers are required to maintain a record of days off. 2021-2022 Tracking Time-off Forms: Full-time Officer Time Off Tracker- University and Non-Clinical Services Part-time Officers Time Off Tracker - University and Non-Clinical Services Full-Time Officer Time Off Tracker - Clinical Services Part-Time Officer Time Off Tracker - Clinical Services Hourly Officers Timesheet Hourly Officers Record of Hours Worked form Pay Schedule Hourly Officers are paid on a bi-weekly payroll schedule. 2021-2022 Morningside Payroll Calendar 2021-2022 CUIMC Payroll Calendar Non-Exempt Hourly Officers are Officers of Research, Officers of the Libraries or Officers of Administration are categorized as non-exempt because they earn less than the applicable salary threshold by Federal regulation under the FLSA, or State regulation under the New York State Wage Orders. For more details, see Overtime Pay for Hourly Officers. Record of Hours Worked A record of hours worked must be completed and submitted in accordance with your department’s process on a bi-weekly basis. The timesheet is available in the sidebar under Related Documents. If you anticipate needing to work in excess of your standard hours, you must first obtain approval from your Principal Investigator or Chair or Director of the Institute or Center (Officers of Research) or your manager (Officers of the Libraries and Officers of Administration). If you work more than your standard weekly hours, you are entitled to be compensated for all hours worked. Any hours between your standard hours and 40 will be paid at your regular hourly rate. Any hours in excess of 40 in a week will be compensated at the rate of one-and-one-half times your regular rate. Casual and Variable Hours Officers Timesheets Bi-Weekly Casual Record of Hours Worked Variable Hour Officers Record of Hours Worked Support Staff Timesheets Record of Hours Worked Bi-Weekly Support Staff Record of Hours Worked Weekly Support Staff Expand all Collapse all Attendance Columbia Work Hours The regular workday for most support staff is 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., excluding a one-hour period. This schedule results in a 35-hour week. Service and maintenance employees and certain other employees have different work hours. Certain offices and departments, because of the nature of their operation, may require different work schedules. Specific schedules and changes should be discussed with your supervisor. PAC Time and Absence Submissions If your school uses the Time & Labor and Absence Management (TLAM) system —you can submit time and absence requests online via MyColumbia: Log in to MyColumbia Choose the "Faculty and Staff" Tab Scroll to the "PAC Time and Absence" box Choose the links to submit timesheets or absence requests Expand all Collapse all Flexible Work Arrangements (FWA) Overview The University offers Flexible Work Arrangements (FWA), including Telecommuting, Flextime and the Nine, 10, and 11-Month employment programs so that staff may better manage their personal and professional lives. All formal flexible work arrangements must be approved by the department in advance and must allow the department to meet its business needs and operational goals. To request a flexible work arrangement, first complete a FWA Proposal Form and submit it to your manager for consideration. Your proposal will go through an evaluation process on its merits. Request a FWA Guidelines for Initiating a FWA To request a flexible work arrangement (FWA), a staff member must complete a FWA proposal and submit it to the manager for consideration. Each staff-initiated proposal goes through the same process, as described below, and is evaluated on its own merits. For more information, see the FWA Policy. How to Propose a FWA Staff interested in a FWA should prepare a clear, realistic proposal that includes a strong business rationale for the arrangement. Writing the proposal helps staff think through the issues from their own and other perspectives, and provides a document that staff and managers can use as a basis for discussion. By taking ownership of the process, the staff member has more control and a greater stake in the arrangement’s success. Assess your readiness for a FWA. Review the guidelines and requirements, your job description and your tasks. Think about, and be prepared to answer questions on how such an arrangement would affect service delivery, deadlines, etc. Complete the Flexible Work Arrangement Proposal Form and submit it to your direct supervisor. Meet with your supervisor to discuss the proposal. Modify the proposal after the discussion, if necessary. Submit the final draft of the proposal to your supervisor. Confirm benefits and payroll impact by calling the HR Benefits Service Center at 212-851-7000, or meeting with your departmental administrator or HR manager. If the FWA is approved, work with your supervisor to develop an implementation plan. Keep a final draft and signed copy of the proposal for your records. Flextime Flextime options include: Fixed starting and departure times Starting and departure times that can vary daily Variations in the length of the workday Compressed work schedules Customized work schedules Part-time work Staff may request a flextime arrangement or managers may restructure work schedules to create flextime opportunities. Telecommuting Telecommuting entails regularly working outside of the office (for example, a work-at-home arrangement or a remote-access arrangement) for at least part of the work week. In general, telecommuting is a privilege which managers may grant under appropriate circumstances, to high-performing staff whose job responsibilities are suited to such an arrangement. Telecommuting may be applied to full-time and part-time positions. For more details, see the Telecommuting Policy. Staff may request a telecommuting arrangement or a manager may restructure a work schedule to create telecommuting. Telecommuting schedules must be approved in advance by the department and should be put in writing. The following guidelines apply to telecommuting arrangements: Develop agreed-upon schedule Remain on-site for meetings, training sessions or similar events. Maintain a "normal" workload Use salary continuation or sick leave for illnesses Use vacation or personal leave to be relieved of work responsibility Nine-, Ten- or Eleven-Month Appointments An Officer of Administration or Officer of the Libraries or Non-Union Support Staff member, in a regular full-time position may apply for the Nine-, Ten, or Eleven-Month Employment Program. Under this program, salary is prorated based on the number of months the employee is scheduled to work: Employees are paid their salaries on their regular payroll cycles over a 12-month period Full-time employment status and designated benefits continue for Eleven-month appointments Benefits changes occur for Nine- and Ten-month appointments* Vacation benefits and personal days are prorated based on vacation eligibility status All other leaves of absence still apply (i.e. salary continuation-medical leave, parental leave, etc.) This work arrangement may be considered by the department for a new or vacant full-time position. The time away from work must be taken in 30-day increments, but not necessarily consecutive months. Staff on a Nine-, Ten- or Eleven-Month Employment Program must work the minimum number of days described below, before taking the 30-, 60- or 90-day time off period: Eleven-month program: One complete working month Ten-month program: Two complete and consecutive working months Nine-month program: Three complete and consecutive working months Once a position has been designated a Nine-, Ten-, or Eleven-month position, it cannot be reverted to a regular 12-month position: within a year of being filled, if it is a newly created or vacant position; or within a year of the date of agreement with an incumbent officer. However, a position can be reverted if business or operational needs dictate such a change, as determined by management, with Human Resources approval. *Staff in an Eleven-month employment program maintain full-time employment status and receive regular full-time benefits such as health insurance and vacation. Staff in a nine- or ten-month employment program maintain full-time employment status but certain benefits may be modified as per the benefits schedule. See the FWA Policy for more information. Phased Retirement Officers of Administration who are age 55 or over, have completed 10 years of service with the University, and are contemplating retirement may explore the possibility of a Phased Retirement in which your workload is gradually decreased instead of going immediately into full retirement. Please contact your department’s HR Manager for more information. Workplace Essentials Collective Bargaining Agreements Labor & Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary & Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take Vacation & Time Away Take a Leave of Absence Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct Related Documents 2021-2022 Morningside Payroll Calendar 2021-2022 CUIMC Payroll Calendar PT Hourly Officer Record of Hours Worked Record of Hours Worked Bi-Weekly Casual Variable Hour Officers Record of Hours Worked Record of Hours Worked Bi-Weekly Casual Record of Hours Worked Weekly Support Staff Flexible Work Arrangement Proposal Form Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close