Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Health & Welfare Officers - Health & Welfare Officers - Medical Coverage Officers - Medical Coverage The University offers four comprehensive medical plan options through UnitedHealthcare (UHC). Each plan includes vision and prescription drug coverage. Flu shots are covered at $0 out-of-pocket as part of your preventive benefit. Virtual Visits provides online access to physicians at your convenience. Expand all Collapse all Medical Plans Overview If you enroll in a medical plan, you will be automatically enrolled in prescription drug and vision coverage. All of the University's medical plans cover the same comprehensive set of services, and provide in-network preventive care, such as annual physicals, immunizations and well-baby visits, paid at 100% with no deductible. You have the flexibility to use in-network or out-of-network providers each time you seek care. However, you can minimize your out-of-pocket expenses when you use in-network providers. Medical Plan Descriptions All University medical plans cover medically-necessary services and supplies for the purpose of preventing, diagnosing or treating an acute sickness, injury, mental illness, substance abuse or symptoms. For details on medical plans, review the Summary Plan Description (SPD) and Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC). Important Note on Referrals and Precertification UHC’s Choice network is a national provider network and does not require a primary care physician or referrals to see specialists. UHC requires precertification for some services. If you use an in-network provider, your participating network physician or hospital generally handles the precertification process. However, it is your responsibility to confirm that your provider has obtained the necessary authorizations from UHC. If you see a provider who is out-of-network, you are responsible for obtaining precertification for most services except routine office visits. Whenever you are having diagnostic or preventive tests, be sure to ask your physician if he/she is referring you to a provider who is in-network. Consider the Costs As with any major purchase decision, cost will likely play a factor when selecting your medical plan. But costs can be difficult to accurately calculate. Lower payroll deductions might make a particular plan option look inexpensive, but you may have a higher deductible to meet. Or, a particular option may have higher payroll deductions, but lower costs when you receive care. Since everyone is different—requiring different levels of care—it is important to consider the total costs for each medical plan option: the cost you pay at the time you use health care (e.g., your deductible, coinsurance or copay) plus the cost you pay out of your paycheck. If you don’t take the time to consider the total cost of each medical plan, you may end up paying for more coverage than you need. Use SmartSelect, a comparison tool on CUBES, to help determine which medical plan is best for you. You can model different health scenarios for yourself and your family to estimate what your total out-of-pocket costs will be. Choice Plus 80 Other than preventive care and copays, for most in-network medical services you must meet an annual deductible of $600 per member before the Plan pays the coinsurance of 80% of the negotiated fee; you are responsible for the remaining 20% of the coinsurance. After you reach the in-network out-of-pocket maximum of $3,750 for an individual and $7,500 for a family, the Choice Plus 80 plan pays 100% of covered in-network medical charges and prescription drug copays for the remainder of the calendar year. Most out-of-network services are covered at 60%* after the annual deductible of $850 per member. * Eligible expenses are determined in accordance with the Claims Administrator's reimbursement policy. For more information contact UHC at 800-232-9357. Choice Plus 90 Other than preventive care and copays, for most in-network medical services you must meet the annual deductible of $400 per member before the Choice Plus 90 plan pays the coinsurance of 90% of the negotiated fee; you are responsible for the remaining 10% of the coinsurance. After you reach the in-network out-of-pocket maximum of $3,250 for an individual and $6,500 for a family, the Plan pays 100% of covered in-network medical charges and prescription drug copays for the remainder of the calendar year. Most out-of-network services are covered at 60%* after the annual deductible of $850 per member. *Eligible expenses are determined in accordance with the Claims Administrator's reimbursement policy. For more information, contact UHC at 800-232-9357. Choice Plus 100 The Choice Plus 100 plan has a $200 deductible for some in-network services, such as such as professional fees for surgical and medical services. Copays apply for certain services and in some cases are dependent on where the service is received. For example, inpatient hospital services require a $500 per admission copay; outpatient hospital services, including lab and radiology, require a $150 copay.** In addition, after you reach the in-network out-of-pocket maximum of $4,750 for an individual and $9,500 for a family, the Plan pays 100% of covered in-network medical charges for the remainder of the calendar year. Most out-of-network services are covered at 60%* after the annual deductible of $850 per member. * Eligible expenses are determined in accordance with the Claims Administrator's reimbursement policy. For more information, contact UHC at 800-232-9357. ** The $150 outpatient hospital copay does not apply if you obtain your lab and/or radiology at certain New York Presbyterian (NYP) locations. See the list of NYP participating locations. High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) Columbia University offers a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) that provides comprehensive coverage through UHC. The Plan has low monthly contributions in exchange for a higher deductible and out-of-pocket maximum. If you elect the HDHP, you can enroll in a Health Savings Account (HSA), a portable, personal savings account that lets you set aside pre-tax dollars to use for eligible healthcare expenses now or in the future. Note: If you enroll in the HSA, you cannot enroll in the Healthcare FSA at the same time. What You Need to Know About the HDHP Preventive medical care is covered at 100% with no deductible when you use an in-network provider. For non-preventive care—and non-preventive drugs—you pay for your expenses until you reach your deductible: $1,500 for individual coverage or $3,000 for family coverage. For family coverage, the entire $3,000 deductible must be met, even if only one family member has expenses. There is no individual deductible when you elect family coverage. After you reach the deductible, the Plan begins to pay for covered services. Any additional medical expenses are shared between the Plan and you as coinsurance. The Plan’s coinsurance is 90% and your coinsurance is 10%. When your coinsurance, plus deductible and prescription drug copays reach the out-of-pocket maximum, the Plan pays 100% of your remaining in-network covered medical services, including prescription drug costs, for the rest of the calendar year. The out-of-pocket maximum for in-network expenses is $3,000 for individual coverage or $7,100 for family coverage. For family coverage, the entire $7,100 out-of-pocket maximum must be met, even if only one family member has claims. Most out-of-network services are covered at 60%* after the annual deductible of $2,900 per member. * Eligible expenses are determined in accordance with the Claims Administrator's reimbursement policy. For more information, contact UHC at 800-232-9357. Affordable Care Act (ACA) Find basic information on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) Expand all Collapse all Plan Comparisons & Costs HDHP vs. Choice Plus Plans HDHP vs. Choice Plus Plans Plan Provision Monthly Payroll Contributions HDHP Lower Choice Plus Plans Higher Plan Provision In-network deductible, coinsurance and medical and prescription copays HDHP Accumulate toward the in-network out-of-pocket maximum Choice Plus Plans Accumulate toward the in-network out-of-pocket maximum Plan Provision Out-of-network out-of-pocket eligible expenses HDHP Do not apply to in-network out-of-pocket maximum Choice Plus Plans Accumulate toward the in-network out-of-pocket maximum Plan Provision Annual Deductible HDHP Higher Choice Plus Plans Lower Plan Provision In-Network Preventive Care HDHP Covered at 100% with no deductible in all plans Choice Plus Plans Covered at 100% with no deductible in all plans Plan Provision In-Network Physician Office Visits HDHP Covered at 90% after the deductible Choice Plus Plans $30 copay per visit Plan Provision Out-of-Pocket Maximum HDHP Includes deductible, coinsurance, medical and prescription copays Choice Plus Plans Includes deductible, coinsurance, medical and prescription copays Plan Provision Preventive Prescription Drugs at Retail Pharmacy or Mail Order HDHP Copays; not subject to the deductible Choice Plus Plans Copays; not subject to the deductible Plan Provision Non-Preventive Prescription Drugs at Retail Pharmacy or Mail Order HDHP Covered with copays after meeting the deductible Choice Plus Plans Only copays apply Plan Provision Health Savings Account (HSA) HDHP Save up to $3,600 (2021)/$3,650 (2022) single; $7,200 (2021)/$7,300 (2022)* family on a pretax basis to pay for healthcare expenses now or in the future. Rolls over from year to year. Choice Plus Plans You may not contribute to the HSA while you are enrolled in any of the Choice Plus Plans; however, if you have an HSA balance, you can continue to use it for new expenses. Plan Provision Healthcare Flexible Spending Account (FSA) HDHP Not available if you elect the HDHP with an HSA. You cannot elect an HSA and an FSA in the same calendar year, or elect an HSA and have an FSA balance rollover in the same calendar year. Choice Plus Plans Set aside up to $2,750* per year on a pre-tax basis to pay for healthcare expenses during a single calendar year. Roll over up to $550* from one year to the next. *IRS limits are subject to change. For 2021 to 2022 only, FSA rollover is not limited. Medical Plan Comparison Chart View 2022 Medical Plan Comparison Chart. View 2021 Medical Plan Comparison Chart. Important Notes on Referrals United Healthcare’s (UHC) Choice network is a national provider network. It does not require a primary care physician or referrals to see specialists. UHC does require precertification for some services. If you use an in-network provider, your participating network physician or hospital generally handles the precertification process. It is your responsibility to confirm your provider has obtained the necessary authorizations from UHC. If you see a provider who is out-of-network, you are responsible for obtaining precertification for most services except routine office visits. Cost of Coverage: Your Contributions Contributions for your medical, vision and prescription drug coverage are deducted from your pay before any taxes are taken out. 2022 Cost of Coverage: Your Contributions Same-Sex Domestic Partners Federal income tax rules require that contributions toward coverage of a same-sex domestic partner be deducted from pay on an after-tax basis. In addition, University contributions toward the total cost of coverage for your same-sex domestic partner are taxable to you. To assist with this tax burden, if you elect same-sex domestic partner medical coverage, Columbia will provide a credit of $1,000 per year ($41.67 per pay period) beginning the pay period following the effective date of your election. SmartSelect Use SmartSelect—the medical comparison tool in CUBES—to model different health scenarios, estimate out-of-pocket costs, and determine which medical plan is best for you and your family. SmartSelect can use your past calendar year’s health claims if you were enrolled in a University medical plan last year. Expand all Collapse all In-Network vs. Out-of-Network Coverage In-Network Whenever you are having diagnostic or preventive tests, be sure to ask your physician if he/she is referring you to a provider who is in-network. For the 80, 90 and 100 medical plans, you pay a $30 copay for physician office visits (including specialists and urgent care), when you use UHC network providers. Preventive care is covered at 100% with no deductible for in-network services. The deductible, coinsurance and all medical and prescription drug copays accumulate toward your annual out-of-pocket maximum. Out-of-Network Out-of-network services are covered identically by each of the University’s medical plans, and are subject to the out-of-network deductible and out-of-pocket maximum. You can use out-of-network providers for preventive services, subject to a separate deductible and coinsurance. You are responsible for obtaining precertifications from UHC before most non-office visit treatment begins, and within 48 hours of an emergency hospital admission. If you do not obtain precertification, you will be subject to a $500 penalty. Eligible expenses are determined in accordance with the Claims Administrator's reimbursement policy. For more information, contact UHC at 800-232-9357. Expand all Collapse all Medical Coverage When Traveling If Traveling on Columbia Business Less Than Six Months Columbia University faculty and staff traveling outside the U.S. for Columbia Travel for less than 6 months automatically have health insurance coverage through Zurich Travel Assist. Administered in conjunction with International SOS (ISOS), Zurich Travel Assist provides full coverage for illness and injury that occur while abroad. Medically-necessary services are covered at no cost if ISOS is contacted for assistance before a patient is treated. Zurich Travel Assist health coverage is coordinated through ISOS. In the event of an emergency while traveling outside of the U.S. for Columbia Travel, call ISOS at +1-215-942-8478 or use the ISOS mobile app. For more information, go to CU Global Travel. In the event of an emergency, if on Columbia business abroad, call International SOS: 215-942-8478. If you travel 100 miles or more from home or abroad and need assistance, go to Emergency Travel Assistance. If Traveling on Columbia Business Six Months or More The Cigna International Plan provides comprehensive coverage if you are traveling outside the U.S. for six months or more while still on the University’s U.S. payroll. To cover any dependents, you must have this coverage as well. Benefits include: Easy access to comprehensive, quality healthcare anywhere in the world 24/7 support; collect calls accepted 24/7 connection to the nearest and most appropriate physician or hospital If you believe you are eligible for this medical plan option, contact the Columbia Benefits Service Center at 212-851-7000 or [email protected] for more information, including monthly rates. In the event of an emergency, if on Columbia business abroad, call International SOS: +1-215-942-8478. If you travel 100 miles or more from home or abroad and need assistance, go to the Emergency Travel Assistance program. Personal Travel When you are covered under the University's Basic Term Life Insurance Plan (from Cigna), you and your eligible dependents are also covered for emergency travel assistance. For more information, go to Emergency Travel Assistance. ID Card UHC ID cards have member information for medical, vision, and prescription drug coverage. You do not need separate cards for each benefit. After enrolling in a medical plan, it can take three weeks for a UHC ID card to arrive in your mail. If necessary, you can print a temporary UHC ID card two weeks after enrolling. Create an account on myuhc.com to print a temporary ID card. Use your Social Security Number, date of birth, and Group number 712790. Health & Welfare Benefits Officers - Health & Welfare Eligibility Dependent Eligibility Medical Dental Vision Prescription Drug Tax Savings Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts Health Savings Account Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program Life Insurance Accidental Death & Dismemberment Disability Insurance Voluntary Benefits Well-being Related Documents UHC Medical Claim Form UHC Choice Plus 100, 90 and 80 SPD UHC High Deductible Health Plan SPD Benefits Tools CUBES Making Changes to Your Benefits Vendor Contacts FAQs - Benefits Glossary What Is My Employment Group? Benefits Policies Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close