Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Beat Fall Stress Beat Fall Stress Goodbye swimsuits. Hello school bags, briefcases, shorter days, holidays and jam-packed schedules. No matter what's on your calendar, September can be a stressful month as schedules readjust. Whether you want to use your time more efficiently or simply prevent burnout as summer ends and fall begins, use your Columbia benefits to alleviate some pressure and stay on track. Expand all Collapse all Tips to Beat Stress Get Help Planning Your Schedule Research and Referrals: Ask the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for help completing your to-do lists (username “Columbia”; password “eap”). Carpool, Vanpool, Biking: Improve your commute with ride-sharing. Go to 511nyrideshare for more. Don’t forget the Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program. You can help save money on parking and/or public transit commuting. Looking for support identifying early education, child care and/or K-12 schooling options? The Office of Work/Life’s School and Child Care Search Service can offer the guidance you need. Need an elder care provider due to a new school or work schedule? The EAP can help you locate qualified providers in your area. If you need support while looking for a new care provider, take advantage of Columbia’s Back-Up Care Advantage Program, provided by Bright Horizons. This program gives you access to a variety of resources and support for short-term care, including: Babysitters, nannies and housekeepers Elder care services Center-based child care For more information, including copays for services, visit Work/Life Back-Up Care. If the cost of your child care has changed, don’t forget that you can increase or decrease your Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account (FSA) election (during Benefits Open Enrollment and/or if you have a qualified life status change). Just back from maternity leave? Lactation support and rooms are available through the Office of Work/Life on all University campuses. Serious about improving your scheduling habits (and much more)? Learning & Development offers courses and workshops on everything from time management to team building. Back to School Health Organize your child’s medical records and emergency contact information. Schedule medical and dental check-ups before school starts: Update immunizations Consider vision and hearing tests (impairment can affect learning) and sports check-ups Complete a consent-to-treat form and share with school nurse and day care providers Develop action plans for health issues, like asthma or food allergies Don’t miss your shot Now is a good time to think about the immunizations you and your family might need. The University’s medical plans cover preventive immunizations and boosters. Ask your doctor about which ones you and your family should have. Keep Self-Care a Priority A change in schedule, or a new school or after-school activity for your child can be stressful for you. Don’t let stress get the upper hand; Columbia has resources to help: Fit for Duty: Meditation has multiple benefits, from coping with feelings of sadness to balancing emotions, and clearing the mind to better navigate new challenges. Start your path to a more mindful life with Aetna’s step-by-step guide to meditation at work. Life Coach: Identify and work towards achieving your goals and/or lifestyle changes. Your own, private life coach is available by phone,email or online chat through the University’s Employee Assistance Program*. Go to the Humana website (username “Columbia”; password “eap”) to gain access. Mindfulness Apps** Go to the Humana website (username “Columbia”; password “eap”) to access these apps at a discounted cost: Talkspace: Confidential and secure mental health support. Users can send text, video and audio messages to dedicated therapists 24/7. Stop, Breathe & Think: Meditation and mindfulness programs to help you tackle life’s ups and downs. Five Minute Journal: Simple, directed journaling exercises to help you focus on the good and positive things in your life. Audio-guided meditation and yoga videos can be found on Work/Life Mental & Emotional Well-being. *Available to benefits-eligible employees, whether enrolled in a University medical plan or not. **You can also download these apps in the App Store or Google Play. It's Time for College Planning If you have children in high school, you’re probably already thinking about college. The University provides resources to help you through this exciting process. You may be eligible to receive Tuition Exemption for your children attending Columbia University, Barnard College, Teachers College or other accredited colleges and universities. Go to Tuition Programs for eligibility and program details. Access guidance about the school search process and life at college through the Employee Assistance Program (username “Columbia”; password “eap”) to gain access. Click “What’s on your mind” and select “Education.” Resources include tools to help you calculate budgets and find information on: Back to school Online Educational Resources K-12 and college College and University search tools Professional development Returning to or starting school as an adult If you or your child (age 18 or older) is anxious or overwhelmed by college prep, speak with an Employee Assistance Program counselor. Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close