Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Health & Welfare SSA - Health and Welfare SSA - Medical Coverage SSA - Medical Coverage Columbia University offers the Choice In-Network and Choice Plus 90 plan. Each plan includes vision and prescription drug coverage. Full-time Support Staff Association (SSA) employees can choose to enroll in either plan, with no monthly contributions. Flu shots are covered at $0 out-of-pocket as part of your preventive benefit. Virtual Visits provides online access to physicians at your convenience. Expand all Collapse all Medical Plans Overview The Choice Plus 90 and Choice In-Network medical plans cover the same comprehensive set of medically-necessary services and supplies, including in-network preventive care—such as annual physicals, immunizations and well-baby visits—at 100% with no deductible. Under the Choice Plus 90 plan, coverage for out-of-network services is provided. The University’s medical plans differ in the way the costs are structured. For details on medical plan options and coverage specifics, review each plan's Summary Plan Description (SPD) and Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC). Choice In-Network Preventive care is covered at 100%. The Plan has no deductible for all in-network services. Copays apply for certain services and in some cases are dependent on where the service is received. For example, inpatient hospital services require a $500 per admission copay; outpatient hospital services, including lab and radiology, require a $150 copay. In addition, after you reach the in-network out-of-pocket maximum of $3,500 for an individual and $7,000 for a family, the Choice In-Network plan pays 100% of covered medical charges for the remainder of the calendar year. Out-of-network services are not covered. Note: The $150 outpatient hospital copay does not apply if you obtain your lab and/or radiology at certain New York Presbyterian (NYP) locations. See list of participating NYP locations. Whenever you are having diagnostic or preventive tests, be sure to ask your physician if he/she is referring you to a provider who is in-network. Choice Plus 90 Preventive care is covered at 100%. Other than preventive care and copays, for most in-network medical services you must meet the annual deductible of $400 per member before the Choice Plus 90 plan pays the coinsurance of 90% of the negotiated fee; you are responsible for the remaining 10% of the coinsurance. After you reach the in-network out-of-pocket maximum of $3,250 for an individual and $6,500 for a family, the Choice Plus 90 plan pays 100% of covered in-network medical charges and prescription drug copays for the remainder of the calendar year. Medical Plan Comparison Chart View 2022 Medical Plan Comparison Chart View 2021 Medical Plan Comparison Chart Important Notes on Referrals United Healthcare’s (UHC) Choice network is a national provider network. It does not require a primary care physician or referrals to see specialists. UHC does require precertification for some services. If you use an in-network provider, your participating network physician or hospital generally handles the precertification process. It is your responsibility to confirm your provider has obtained the necessary authorizations from UHC. If you see a provider who is out-of-network, you are responsible for obtaining precertification for most services except routine office visits. Cost of Coverage: Your Contributions Contributions are the amount you pay toward the cost of your medical, vision and prescription drug (“Rx”) coverage through pre-tax payroll contributions. Your healthcare contributions are deducted from your pay before any taxes are taken out. 2022 Monthly Pre-Tax Contributions for Medical & Rx Plan Full-Time Yourself Only Yourself & Child(ren) Yourself & Spouse Family Plan Choice Plus 90 Yourself Only $0 Yourself & Child(ren) $0 Yourself & Spouse $0 Family $0 Plan Choice In-Network Yourself Only $0 Yourself & Child(ren) $0 Yourself & Spouse $0 Family $0 Plan Part-Time Yourself Only Yourself & Child(ren) Yourself & Spouse Family Plan Choice Plus 90 Yourself Only $430 Yourself & Child(ren) $816 Yourself & Spouse $902 Family $1,289 Plan Choice In-Network Yourself Only $446 Yourself & Child(ren) $847 Yourself & Spouse $937 Family $1,338 University Contribution to Healthcare FSA If you enroll in the Choice Plus 90 plan, you will automatically receive a University contribution to the Healthcare FSA (Seed FSA Contribution). Same-Sex Domestic Partners Federal income tax rules require that your contributions toward the coverage of a same-sex domestic partner be deducted from your pay on an after-tax basis. In addition, University contributions toward the total cost of coverage for your same sex domestic partner are taxable to you. In-Network vs. Out-of-Network Coverage In-Network In both plans, you pay a $30 copay for physician office visits (including specialists and urgent care) when you use a UHC network provider. Preventive care is covered at 100% with no deductible for in-network services. Out-of-Network Out-of-network services are covered by the UHC Choice Plus 90 medical plan, and are subject to deductibles and out-of-pocket maximums. You are responsible for obtaining precertifications from UHC before most non-office visit treatment begins, and within 48 hours of an emergency hospital admission. If you do not obtain precertification, you will be subject to a $500 penalty. Eligible expenses are determined in accordance with the claims administrator's reimbursement policy. For more information, contact UHC at 800-232-9357. Out-of-Pocket Maximum The in-network deductible, coinsurance and medical and prescription copays accumulate toward the in-network out-of-pocket maximum. In addition, under the Choice Plus 90 plan, out-of-network out-of-pocket eligible expenses accumulate toward the in-network out-of-pocket maximum. Important Notes on Precertification UHC’s Choice network is a national provider network and does not require a primary care physician or referrals to see specialists. UHC requires precertification for some services. If you use an in-network provider, your participating network physician or hospital generally handles the precertification process. However, it is your responsibility to confirm that your provider has obtained the necessary authorizations from UHC. If you see a provider who is out-of-network, you are responsible for obtaining precertification for most services except routine office visits. Travel Vaccinations & Emergency Assistance If you are traveling out of the country, travel vaccinations will be covered under the medical plan (for the Choice Plus 90 plan, deductible and coinsurance will apply). Emergency Travel Assistance If you travel 100 miles or more from home or abroad and need assistance, see the Emergency Travel Assistance program. Global Travel Support The University maintains additional travel resources to support Columbia-related travel. To learn more—and register your trip—please visit globaltravel.columbia.edu. Affordable Care Act (ACA) Find basic information on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). Medical Coverage if Traveling on Columbia Business Less Than Six Months Columbia University faculty and staff traveling outside the U.S. for Columbia Travel for less than 6 months automatically have health insurance coverage through Zurich Travel Assist. Administered in conjunction with International SOS (ISOS), Zurich Travel Assist provides full coverage for illness and injury that occur while abroad. Medically-necessary services are covered at no cost if ISOS is contacted for assistance before a patient is treated. Zurich Travel Assist health coverage is coordinated through ISOS. In the event of an emergency while traveling outside of the U.S. for Columbia Travel, call ISOS at +1-215-942-8478 or use the ISOS mobile app. For more information, go to CU Global Travel. In the event of an emergency, if on Columbia business abroad, call International SOS: 215-942-8478. If you travel 100 miles or more from home or abroad and need assistance, go to Emergency Travel Assistance. ID Card UHC ID cards have member information for medical, vision, and prescription drug coverage. You do not need separate cards for each benefit. After enrolling in a medical plan, it can take three weeks for a UHC ID card to arrive in your mail. If necessary, you can print a temporary UHC ID card two weeks after enrolling. Create an account on myuhc.com to print a temporary ID card. Use your Social Security Number, date of birth, and Group number 712790. Health & Welfare Benefits SSA - Health and Welfare Eligibility Dependent Eligibility Medical Dental Vision Prescription Drug Tax Savings Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program Life Insurance Accidental Death & Dismemberment Voluntary Benefits Well-being Related Documents Medical Claim Form Vision - Out-of-Network Claim Form Vision - Find a Provider Vision - FAQs Benefits Summary - Choice Plus 90 SSA UHC Choice Plus 90 SPD for SSA UHC In-Network Option SPD for TWU 241-Lamont and 1199SEIU/SSA Benefits Tools CUBES Making Changes to Your Benefits Vendor Contacts FAQs - Benefits Glossary What Is My Employment Group? Benefits Policies Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close