Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources Training and Courses Training and Courses Columbia University offers an extensive selection of courses—both in the classroom and online—to meet the diverse needs of our faculty, staff, students and affiliates. Whether you need to improve a skill or are looking to fulfill compliance requirements for your job, there are many opportunities available to support you and the work you do. Expand all Collapse all Choose by Topic Compliance Training Anti-Harassment All new administrative Officers and Support Staff are required to complete the Anti-Harassment, Anti-Discrimination and Title IX training within the first 31 days of your start date. Go to Anti-Harassment Training Working with Minors Members of the Columbia University community who interact with, supervise, chaperone or otherwise oversee minors in programs or activities at, or sponsored by, the University are required to take Protection of Minors training. Register for Protection of Minors Training HR Systems Training TalentLink TalentLink is the system used at Columbia University to manage job descriptions, requisitions and applicant information for the recruitment of administrative personnel. This includes officers of administration and union and non-union support staff. Go to TalentLink Training [email protected] (PAC) Certain roles require completion of training courses and satisfactorily passing associated knowledge assessments or acknowledgements before access to PAC modules is granted. Access the PAC Roles to Training Courses Guide for an overview of required training per PAC role as well as recommended training courses. Learn more about PAC Enterprise Learning Management (ELM) Most training courses and guides for HR web-based training are on the Enterprise Learning Management (ELM) system. ELM provides training on everything from improving your communications skills, to learning new software, to becoming a better manager. For more information, Visit ELM New Hire Orientation Morningside and Manhattanville Campuses This workshop helps familiarize newly-hired faculty and staff with the University community, benefits programs, campus resources, and much more. Go to New Hire Orientation Medical Center Visit CUIMC Employment Professional & Management Skills Enterprise Learning Management (ELM) ELM provides access to a wide variety of training opportunities—from University compliance courses such as HIPAA and New York Anti-Harassment, to University systems training including PAC and ARC, to skill building courses such as Public Speaking and advanced Excel. Browse the catalog to explore both the online and classroom learning available. Go to ELM Learn about ELM LinkedIn Learning Columbia University offers a wide variety of online courses through LinkedIn Learning to improve your business, IT and desktop skills. Faculty and staff have unlimited access to a vast library of high-quality, topical video tutorials taught by recognized industry experts. LinkedIn Learning courses are available at no cost to you. Access Go to LinkedIn Learning You will be prompted to log in with your Uni and password Browse the LinkedIn Learning inventory and select courses Support If you need technical assistance accessing your LinkedIn Learning account, contact the CUIT Help Desk. Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close