Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Staff Job Posting Staff Job Posting Job Post Management includes information on how to draft a job description, plan job searches, post and advertise jobs, and manage the position process from start to finish. Reminder Notice New York's Local Law 67 prohibits employers in New York City from inquiring about or relying on an applicant's salary history during the hiring process. See Presentation: Salary History Inquiries (NYC Local Law 67) Expand all Collapse all Managing Job Postings Drafting a Job Description A well-written job description will help attract qualified applicants and simplify the résumé evaluation process. This will also ensure that applicants and employees understand their roles, the skills they will need, and ultimately, the performance expectations for the position. Well-written job descriptions typically begin with a careful analysis of the important facts about a job, such as the individual tasks involved, the methods used to complete the tasks, the purpose and responsibilities of the job, and the qualifications needed for the job. When determining the skill and education requirements for the position, the primary consideration should be what skills and qualifications are necessary to successfully perform the duties and responsibilities of the role. Other skills and qualifications outside of these should be considered preferred skills and qualifications. Job descriptions should include: Job title Department Position title of the manager Summary description of the broad function and scope of the position List of essential duties and responsibilities which should be listed in descending order of importance and indicate the percentage of time spent on each duty List of qualifications necessary for the performance of the job (Include formal training, education, certifications, licensures and/or working experience requirements) Summary of supervisory positions, subordinate roles and other working relationships Short description of budgetary responsibilities (if applicable) Special considerations, such as lifting requirements, working conditions, etc. A catchall sentence stating “and all other duties as assigned” Keep in Mind: Vacancies offer the opportunity to reassess staffing and operational needs and make necessary changes before the position is posted. The job description is meant to be a summary of the most important responsibilities of the role; remaining details fall under "other duties as assigned." Active Recruiting Active recruiting entails soliciting applications from potential candidates by making information about the available position widely known, both through advertising broadly and seeking out qualified individuals through professional networks. It also involves finding sources of qualified candidates rather than assuming that all candidates will find and apply to available positions, of their own volition. To enrich the applicant pool, consider employing a range of strategies that engage a diverse pool of applicants: It is important to advertise and raise awareness of opportunities through channels that will ensure a diverse pool of candidates, and hiring management should be apprised of and be mindful of applicable Affirmative Action Placement Goals. Such channels include but are not limited to: Target publications or websites: Advertisements can be posted in publications or websites where the audience is the member of a diverse group or groups for which there is an Affirmative Action Placement Goal. Professional associations: Mailing lists for diverse individuals within these groups can be another way of disseminating information for the position. Professional conferences: You can connect with diverse candidates attending conferences who may be good candidates for current or future open positions. Planning Job Searches Careful recruitment planning and execution helps managers hire individuals who are well matched for positions. Excellent employee/job matches result in employees who help organizations achieve their goals and gain satisfaction from their work. In today’s workplace, managers are usually juggling competing responsibilities and priorities. Although it may seem too time-consuming to conduct a search, when a poor hiring decision is made, managers spend a great deal of energy and effort to start the recruitment initiative all over again. The Hiring Department’s Role in the Recruitment Process: Prepare postings and advertising text Propose placement location for advertisements, when applicable Ensure that all applicants apply through TalentLink Review the applications and other documents to screen for the most qualified applicants Interview applicants Conduct reference checks Ensure that selected applicants meet the minimum job requirements as posted on the job posting Obtain required clearances, such as background check screening and/or medical clearance, make contingent job offers and thoroughly complete hiring documentation and new hire paperwork Ensure that I-9 forms are completed within 72 hours of the hire date Provide job/department specific orientation and training Sign up new hire for CUHR Faculty and Staff Orientation Welcome Program Complete Positions Management Request (PMR) to request new position numbers or to update existing positions (when applicable). Position numbers are requested through TalentLink The Role of CUHR / CUIMC HR in the Recruitment Process: Review and approve job posting text and qualifying questions (when applicable) Provide guidance on using the TalentLink Provide assistance as needed throughout the hiring process Verify that finalists in all grades meet the minimum posted job requirements Approve the salary Review and clear background check and any other required screening and grant employment clearance. Please refer to the CU Background Check Policy. Posting Requirements Officers Grade 10-13 (Morningside)/103-105 (CUIMC) While special recruitment initiatives are not required for this group, the recruitment practice should be consistent with the University's commitment to equal employment opportunity and affirmative action. As a result, all vacant Officer grades 10-13 (Morningside)/103-105 (CUIMC) positions [for which there is not an Affirmative Action Placement Goal] follow the general policy for posting, requiring a minimum of five business days in TalentLink. We encourage hiring departments to work with their respective HR Client Manager to develop strategies that would render the broadest pool of applicants possible. Note: Waivers may be considered for these positions and should be submitted via TalentLink to the HR Client Manager for approval. Temporary University Positions Temporary University positions, those with duration of less than one year, are not subject to the general policy for posting. However, if the position status should change from temporary to regular, the position must be posted at that time and a search should be conducted. Therefore, it may be beneficial (though not required) for a department to post a temporary position of less than one year when there is a possibility that the position will become regular. Note: Where applicable, see the appropriate collective bargaining agreement for language on temporary employees. Officer Grade 14 (Morningside)/106 (CUIMC) and Above Intensive recruitment is conducted for those positions identified by the Affirmative Action Plan as being in a job group in which there is a placement goal for women and/or minorities, and for officer vacancies at grades 14/106 and above. The posting period for these positions will be defined by the search plan developed and outreach conducted. Generally, a minimum of 14 calendar days for local searches and 21 calendar days for national searches is required to give applicants an opportunity to respond to announcements placed in publications and websites. Advertising Guidelines Job advertisements should summarize and highlight critical tasks and responsibilities of the role and should clearly reflect skills needed to perform the essential functions of the job, as well as other preferred skills and experience. If the wording associated with skills and experience requested does not specify preferred or required, they are assumed to be required. Minimum requirements and qualifications must be the same in each job advertisement placed, i.e., the job advertising placed in a publication or website must have the same requirement as the posting placed on the TalentLink system. In the event that there is a discrepancy, the TalentLink posting will stand. All job announcements must contain the corresponding posting’s URL directing applicants to TalentLink. The full job description should not be used as a job advertisement. Ad Placement In instances where a job opening has a considerable list of qualifications, requires extensive recruitment, and/or is in a traditionally “hard-to-fill” job family, the use of advertising in an external publication or website may be necessary. The job advertisement text may be reviewed by the HR Client Manager before the School/Department places the ad(s) with 1) CU Publications; or 2) directly to the respective source. Ad Content In general, the school/department should prepare a job summary extracted from the full job description for inclusion in advertisements. The school/department should consult with their HR Client Manager before placing ads listing multiple positions. The following information should be included in all advertisements: Full job title Full name of Columbia University within text The minimum requirements as listed on the job posting plus any other essential functions the hiring manager deems necessary Link to the TalentLink posting HR Manager Toolkit Recruiting & Hiring TalentLink Staff Search Planning Staff Job Posting Conducting a Staff Search Position Management Hiring Process Background Checks I-9 Form Required Hiring Documents Onboarding Temporary Staffing Academic Appointments Related Documents Job Description Form Action Verbs for Job Descriptions Job Descriptions for Special Considerations Minimum Qualifications Requirements Background Check Policy Guidelines Affirmative Action in Hiring Advertising Placement Sites Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close