Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Retirement & Financial Planning Officers - Voluntary Retirement Savings Program (VRSP) Officers - Voluntary Retirement Savings Program (VRSP) The VRSP is a 403(b) retirement plan that lets you contribute from 1% to 80% of your eligible pay, on a pre-tax (deducted along with any other taxes) and/or Roth after-tax (deducted from take-home pay) basis, up to the annual IRS limit. Eligibility begins on date of hire. You are always 100% entitled to the value of your own contributions. The IRS sets a maximum contribution limit each year, which applies to combined contributions, pre-tax and Roth: The 2022 maximum is $20,500 (plus $6,500 if you are age 50 and over, for a total of $27,000) The Social Security wage base will increase in 2022 from $142,800 to $147,000. You have a wide range of funds to choose from for investing your savings, available through TIAA and/or Vanguard. Are Signed Up? Check your payroll statement to ensure you are participating in VRSP. Expand all Collapse all Notices For Officers Hired On or After July 1, 2013 You will be automatically enrolled to contribute 3% of pay on a pre-tax basis if you do not make a contribution election. You can opt out or change this automatic election at any time. Columbia University will match your pre-tax and Roth savings combined to a maximum of 3% of eligible pay, once you have met the eligibility requirements (matching contributions are allocated to the Officers’ Retirement Plan). Note: core contributions have been modified for calendar year 2021. Learn more For Newly Hired It is your responsibility to ensure that your annual contributions do not exceed the IRS limit for the calendar year. If you have already contributed to another qualified pre-tax retirement plan this year, please be sure to review those contributions so you can elect the appropriate per-paycheck percentage. Expand all Collapse all Your Contributions Pre-tax Contributions Contributions deducted from your pay before federal income taxes (and, in most areas, state and local income taxes) are applied. Your pre-tax contributions and their investment earnings will not be subject to taxes as long as they remain in your VRSP account. Roth Contributions After-tax contributions, which means you pay taxes on Roth contributions along with the rest of your current pay. Because you pay taxes on your Roth contributions when they go into the VRSP, you’ll pay no taxes on Roth contributions when they are paid out to you from the Plan, subject to certain rules. Automatic Enrollment If you are an Officer who is hired after July 1, 2013, and you do not make an election to contribute on a pre-tax and/or Roth basis to the VRSP, you will automatically be enrolled to contribute 3% of your eligible pay on a pre-tax basis 60 days following your hire date. Matching Contributions For those Officers hired after July 1, 2013, the University will match your pre-tax and Roth contributions to the VRSP, up to a maximum of 3% of eligible pay, when you become eligible for University contributions to the Officers’ Retirement Plan. If you are a full-time Senior Officer, the University’s contributions begin on your date of hire. If you are a full-time or part-time Junior Officer, the University’s contributions begin after you complete two years of eligible service. Catch-Up Contributions If you are age 50 or older, you may contribute an additional amount—up to $6,500 in 2019 and 2020—on a pre-tax and/or Roth basis to your VRSP. You become eligible for catch-up contributions on January 1 of the year you turn 50. Log in to CUBES to make this election. Retirement Savings & Financial Planning Officers Eligibility University Retirement Plan Voluntary Retirement Savings Program Resources & Legal Documents Temporary Retirement Changes 2021 FAQs News Events Related Documents Retirement brochure - Officers (hired before 7/1/13) Retirement brochure - Officers (hired after 7/1/13) VRSP Hardship Withdrawal Retirement Forms TIAA - Direct Transfer to Vanguard TIAA - Cash Withdrawal TIAA - Moving Funds TIAA - Request For Hardship Withdrawal TIAA Rollover Form – To VRSP TIAA - Special Tax Notice for Plan Payouts Vanguard - Asset Transfer Form Vanguard Rollover Form - to VRSP Vanguard Termination Form - VRSP Vanguard Termination Request Form - Officer Vanguard - Asset Transfer Form Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close