Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Human Resource Management Empowering a Community of Excellence Search form Search Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Menu Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs HRM CMS Documentation Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Search Search form Search Home Flexible Work Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Keys to Success Remote work arrangements require frequent review and ongoing communication to ensure long-term success. Whether you are continuing in a remote work arrangement or starting a new one, take a moment to ensure that you are considering best practices to ensure that the arrangement is a success. Working Effectively and Efficiently Internet connectivity — Your broadband connection needs to be at a speed that can support the requirements of the position. Dropping video when on calls is not always practical or professional. Close large programs that might be competing for bandwidth to minimize difficulties. Communicate — Be sure to share your progress with your supervisor and team. Regular updates are critical. Be disciplined — It is critical to develop a set of work habits that reflect the professionalism and the expectations of your unit and customer. Keep a regular schedule, come prepared, and wear attire that is appropriate for the activity and helps you to feel your best. The remote office — Although not all personal spaces have the luxury of a home office, it is important to identify a space that is distraction free and provides privacy for sensitive or confidential calls. Be aware of your space and ensure that backgrounds are appropriate and professional. Identify a light source that can be helpful when using video platforms, like Zoom or Teams, for visibility. Professionalism — There are times where it might be acceptable to be interrupted by a family member or pet; however, for those meetings where that type of interruption is inappropriate, remember to latch or secure your office door and use mute when appropriate. Building Relationships Virtually Create spaces to build personal relationships — To supplement missing previous conversations that occurred in the hallway, schedule times to discuss work or more personal events such as a coffee break. Using Zoom and Teams — Sometimes remote employees feel out-of-sight while working remotely. Stay engaged, offer to participate on committees including infinity groups, task forces, etc. Staying Healthy Sometimes working remotely results in longer work hours in front of a computer than in- person assignments. Remember that remote work provides flexibility to take more time to achieve a healthy balance between life and work. Define boundaries — Step away from the computer at the same time each day. Get moving — It is very easy to stay seated for a full day. Use your lunch or what would have been your commute time to get some exercise, standup, and stretch. Define your lunch hour — Avoid walking to the kitchen each time you need to leave your desk. Stock your home with healthy food options. Eating right contributes to both mental and physical wellness and energy. Ergonomic spaces — Reach out to hrdept@ku.edu to schedule a virtual ergonomic assessment to ensure that your workstation is setup appropriately to help prevent injury. Flexible Work Quick Links Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policy & Resources Keys to Success Training FAQs Need Help? Ask Us! Submit an Inquiry Quick Links Apply For A Job Benefits Health Insurance Hiring Process Holidays HR/Pay Login New Employee Packet Search Committee Login Tuition Assistance Vacation Leave Search for HRM Policies Search for Policies and Forms Visit the Policy Office for more information. HRM Calendars HR Pay Donate to Staff Emergency Assistance Fund KU Today 2022 Plan Rates & Comparison Chart Contact Human Resource Management hrdept@ku.edu 785-864-4946 Department of Human Resource Management University of Kansas Carruth O'Leary Hall, Room 103 1246 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045-7521 HR Intranet Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login