Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Events What is the EAP and what can it do for you? (Webinar) Events Past Event What is the EAP and what can it do for you? (Webinar) Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo May 18, 2021 12:00 PM - 12:30 PM Webinar The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for Columbia University provides confidential access to professional counselors to help employees cope with crises and stress-related situations, access financial and legal services, and more. It is not tied to medical insurance. All benefits-eligible employees and their household members can use EAP benefits at no charge. Join our 30-minute webinar, led by the University’s EAP provider, to learn more about the EAP: What are the benefits offered? How to access? Are family members eligible? These questions and more will be answered, plus a live Q&A. This webinar is audio only; video will be off for participants. We will review the following EAP services: Adult/Elder Care research and resource finder Convenience Services Legal and/ or financial consultations LifeCoach Short-term mental health counseling Upcoming Events Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close