Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Tuition Programs College Coach College Coach College Coach is the latest addition to the University’s suite of Tuition Programs and is available at no cost to active Faculty and Staff. Administered by Bright Horizons, a leading provider of educational counseling services, College Coach gives you access to a team of college admissions experts who can help you maximize your child’s success. Suggested for parents of 9th-12th graders. Expand all Collapse all About College Coach Overview College Coach experts include former senior admissions and financial aid officers from some of the nation’s most well-known higher education institutions. Expert guidance is available through live events, online support and personalized assistance. The program is designed to help you and your family members: Navigate the complex college admissions process Select high school courses and extracurricular activities Narrow options and select a college or university for your child Resources and strategies to pay for college expenses Fall 2021 Utilization Statistics 845 faculty and staff utilized College Coach services between September-November, 2021. Detailed information on what services were used is available here. College Coach Statistics Fall 2021 Registration College Coach Registration New to the benefit? Visit: https://passport.getintocollege.com Employer Username: columbia | Password: Benefits4You Get Expert Guidance: Schedule a free one-on-one session with an expert to discuss your family’s unique situation. Questions? Call (888) 527-3550 or email [email protected]. Spring 2022 Webinar Series Writing your Best College Essay Wednesday, July 13, 2022 | 7:00 p.m. ET When it comes time for your student to write the college essay, your family will be prepared with tips from our experts. Get guidance on what it takes to craft a stand-out essay… and succeed in the competitive admissions process. Join us for a live, interactive session to learn: What makes a strong, appropriate, and engaging essay topic Strategies for brainstorming, methods for writing, and tips for editing How to avoid common mistakes and pitfalls Insight into our former admissions officers’ favorite essays How to get the most out of your free essay review benefit This topic is suggested for: Parents/guardians of rising 12th grade students. Register Preparing College Applications Tuesday, August 9, 2022 | 1:00 p.m. ET The college admissions landscape is more competitive than ever before. And trying to figure out how to go about that process is likely weighing on your mind, especially since a good application is key to success. This webinar will go over the process in detail and highlight how you can help your student create the best application. You’ll learn: Common application components and how to tackle each one Tips for writing an essay with maximum impact while avoiding common mistakes, pitfalls, and tricky topics How to be proactive with requirements and deadlines for a lower-stress application process This topic is suggested for: Parents/guardians of rising 12th grade students. Register The High School Plan Wednesday, February 9, 2022 | 1:00 p.m. ET | Live Webinar College admissions success depends on the critical high school years. How can you help your child make the most of them? Learn about the college admissions process and how to help your child effectively plan his or her high school academic and extracurricular program. Find out how to: Select the appropriate type of level of courses for your student Design a strategy for extracurricular and summer activities How to move the plan forward even when high schools switch to virtual learning Manage the calendar for standardized tests, recommendation letters, essays and interviews This topic is suggested for: Parents/guardians of students in 9th – 10th grades. This event has now passed. Selecting Your Best Fit College Tuesday, March 22, 2022 | 7:00 p.m. ET | Live Webinar With close to 4,000 options for college in the U.S., the selection process can be overwhelming. Where do you even start, and how do you know if you’re on the right track? The goal of this workshop is to help families understand how to narrow their options and ultimately select the right college. Families will learn how to: Identify their children’s strengths and interests Utilize their children’s strengths and interests Match their children with the colleges that are the best fits This topic is suggested for: Parents/guardians of students in 11th grade. This event has now passed. Expand all Collapse all Programs and Resources Learning Center The College Coach online learning environment provides videos, resources and frequently asked questions for you to access on demand. It’s a great starting point for introducing the benefit to your whole family. Expert Guidance Consult with College Coach admissions and college finance experts in private phone sessions tailored to your needs. You can discuss your family and student’s application questions, create plans for high school and more. A family typically uses 2-3 scheduled counseling appointments per student each year. As this is a shared resource across all employees, it is helpful to consolidate your inquiries into fewer scheduled appointments. Register for Phone Counseling Note: you must register for College Coach before registering for phone counseling. Customized College List Simplify the college search process with a custom list of colleges and universities based on your student’s preferences, interests and academic record. The list is created by a College Coach admissions expert based on a detailed student questionnaire and features a brief informational profile and estimated chance of admission for each school. Essay Review Help your student craft their best application essays with exclusive written feedback from College Coach experts on college application writing supplements and activity resumes. Quick Questions College Coach will provide written answers to your specific questions through the Quick Questions tool. Send Quick Questions *You must register for College Coach before you can send questions. Expand all Collapse all College Coach FAQs Do admissions officers view public schools and private schools differently? There is no universal better choice between high schools. Colleges evaluate applicants in the context of their school environment. In any high school, it is important for students to make full use of all resources provided, in and beyond the classroom. If advanced, accelerated, or honors courses are available, students are encouraged to challenge themselves if it feels realistic and manageable. If such courses are not available, students will not be penalized in the admissions process. (Q&A provided by College Coach) What's better: advanced courses or high GPA? Should my student be taking the most challenging courses, even if it might hurt the overall GPA? Your child should challenge but not overwhelm him/herself when choosing courses. Most students experience the greatest level of success and satisfaction when they challenge themselves in the coursework they enjoy most. Admission officers are not impressed with good grades in a curriculum that lacks challenging courses. (Q&A provided by College Coach) How important are extracurricular activities? How many activities should my student get involved in? The number of activities is not as important as the commitment to the activity. Five hours spent with one club bears more fruit than one hour spent with five different clubs. (Q&A provided by College Coach) How many colleges should my child apply to? How many colleges should my child apply to? There is no perfect or absolute number that applies to every student. College Coach recommends that students apply to around seven schools representing varying levels of selectivity. An ideal list would consist of two “challenging schools,” institutions where the average accepted applicant's profile is stronger than your student’s profile; three “just right” schools, where the average admitted student’s academic performance is equivalent to your student’s record; and two “no problem” schools, where your child’s academic performance clearly surpasses the typical admitted applicant. (Q&A provided by College Coach) Does applying for financial aid affect admissions? If I apply for financial aid, will it adversely affect my chances for admission? At some schools, a financial aid application can reduce the student’s chances for admission, while at others, it won’t. Many schools are “need-blind” and do not review the financial aid application, if there is one, during the admissions decision process. Others are “need-conscious” and in one way or another favor the admission of non-aid applicants, or students from high-income families. In general, the presence of a financial aid application is much smaller factor in admissions than the data from the admissions application. Many need-conscious colleges admit almost all of their classes on a need-blind basis, and reserve a small fraction of admissions, perhaps 10%, for students who do not need financial aid. Others allow finances to play a minor role in the evaluation of all candidates. (Q&A provided by College Coach) Tuition Programs College Coach Log in College Coach Help Desk hours: Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 8:30 p.m. ET Phone: 888-527-3550 Email: [email protected] Resources CTS Policy CTS Checklist Student in Good Standing Letter Grants, Awards, and Scholarships Letter FAQs Application - Eligible Retired Officers Application - Family of Deceased Officers Work/Life Workshops & Events Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close