Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home News Welcome Back: Live and Feel Better with Specialized Support Benefits News Welcome Back: Live and Feel Better with Specialized Support August 31, 2021 To support your health and well-being, we offer a variety of programs and resources through UnitedHealthcare as part of your Columbia University benefits. If you’re managing a health condition, trying to achieve a health goal or simply want to feel and live better, a nurse advocate can help. Connect with UnitedHealthcare by calling 1-800-232-9357 and ask to speak with a nurse. Take advantage of these resources Experiencing joint pain? Speak with a nurse to manage symptoms and explore treatment options. Pregnant or planning to become pregnant? Connect with a maternity nurse who can provide support before, during and after pregnancy. Recent cancer diagnosis? An oncology nurse can help you and your family navigate treatment and recovery. Looking for more support? Help is available for a variety of conditions, including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), diabetes and more. Connect to learn more myuhc.phs.com | 1-800-232-9357 Tags Benefits Well-being Info News May 17, 2022 Submit PTS - The School at Columbia Applications, starting June 1, 2022 May 17, 2022 Submit PTS - NYC Private Schools Applications, starting June 1, 2022 February 23, 2022 Let your heart take the lead February 01, 2022 Reminder: Job Related Graduate Education Certification Due 2/4/2022 January 14, 2022 At-Home COVID-19 Test Reimbursement Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close