Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Take a Leave of Absence Benefits While on a Leave of Absence Benefits While on a Leave of Absence All benefits-eligible employees may continue benefits if on an approved leave of absence. Your benefits are based upon the duration of type of leave, and your employment role at the University. Expand all Collapse all Continuing Benefits Paid Leave of Absence While on a University-approved, paid leave of absence, an employee will have the same benefits deductions taken out of each paycheck as he/she had while actively at work (also called "active rate"). Note: Paid Family Leave is typically treated as an unpaid leave of absence. See "Unpaid Leave of Absence" on this page. Unpaid Leave of Absence Less Than Six Months While on a University-approved, unpaid leave of absence of six (6) months or less, employee benefits contributions will be charged at the employee’s regular rate. Because the employee is not receiving a paycheck from the University (instead, for example, New York State Workers’ Compensation Board – Disability Benefits makes payments), the employee will be billed by Employee Benefit Plan Administration, Inc. (EBPA). The employee will receive payment coupons via U.S. mail to their home address from EBPA. The employee must remit monthly payments directly to EBPA. Benefits coverage will terminate if payment is not received on a timely basis. Questions can be directed to the Columbia Benefits Service Center by email [email protected] or by phone: 212-851-7000, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday to Friday. Or, call EBPA's billing department: 888-232-3203. Unpaid Leave of Absence More Than Six Months* While on a University-approved, unpaid leave of absence of more than six (6) months, employee benefit contributions will be charged at the full premium rate (also called "COBRA-equivalent rate"). This charge begins with the seventh month of any continuous leave (consecutive paid and unpaid leave combined). If the employee is not receiving a paycheck from the University (instead, for example, New York State Workers’ Compensation Board – Disability Benefits makes payments), the employee will be billed by Employee Benefit Plan Administration, Inc. (EBPA). The employee will receive payment coupons via U.S. mail to their home address from EBPA. Employee must remit monthly payments directly to EBPA. Benefits coverage will terminate if payment is not received on a timely basis. Questions can be directed to the Columbia Benefits Service Center by email [email protected] or by phone: 212-851-7000, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday to Friday. Or, call EBPA's billing department: 888-232-3203. *Note: For Faculty members out on leave for longer than six (6) months, please contact the Columbia Benefits Service Center by emailing [email protected] or calling 212-851-7000. Military Leave If the employee is performing service with the uniformed services for 15 days or less in a calendar year, he/she is put on a paid leave of absence, and there are no benefits implications. After 15 days, the employee is put on an unpaid leave of absence. See “Unpaid Leave of Absence” on this page. Long-Term Disability Immediately upon eligibility for Medicare, either as a result of disability and/or attainment of age 65, you are responsible to apply for and pay any costs associated with Medicare Parts A and B. Medicare will be considered primary to any medical coverage provided to you by Columbia University, which will only pay claims as a secondary provider. If a Long-Term Disability (LTD) Leave of Absence is approved, the employee can continue medical and dental coverage. The employee will receive payment coupons via U.S. mail to their home address from Employee Benefit Plan Administration, Inc. (EBPA). Employee must remit monthly payments directly to EBPA. Benefits coverage will terminate if payment is not received on a timely basis. Medical benefit contributions will be charged at a monthly rate equal to the $175,000 - $224,999 salary tier for the employee's current medical plan and coverage level. This rate will be effective as of the first date of the month following the date the LTD leave is approved. If awaiting a Long-Term Disability decision, the COBRA rate will be charged. If LTD is approved, then the lower rate described above will be retroactive to the first date of the approved leave. Dental benefit contributions will be the same as he/she had while actively at work (also called "active rate"). The employee may apply to continue life insurance benefits through waiver of premium if they are under age 60. The life insurance carrier will review and determine if the application is approved. Questions can be directed to the Columbia Benefits Service Center by email [email protected] or by phone: 212-851-7000, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday to Friday. Or, call EBPA's billing department: 888-232-3203 Additional information regarding the medical plan rates for Officers may be found in the Health & Welfare Benefits section. Workplace Essentials Take a Leave of Absence Leave for Yourself Leave to Care for Others Maternity and Family Leave Benefits While on Leave Request Workplace Accommodations Leave Policies Faculty Leave Leave Management Office 615 West 131st Street, MC 8703 Studebaker 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 Telephone: 212-851-0698 Fax: 212-851-7069 Email: [email protected] Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close