Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home COVID-19 At-home Test Kits COVID-19 At-home Test Kits If you are enrolled in any of the University’s medical plans, we have partnered with OptumRx, the University’s pharmacy benefit manager, to provide reimbursement for COVID-19 at-home tests. Through your prescription drug benefit, you can either purchase at-home COVID tests through the OptumRx preferred pharmacy network or at any alternative retailer. Pay $0 at a preferred network pharmacy OptumRx has partnered with Walmart, Sam’s Club, Rite Aid pharmacies, Walgreens, and Kinney Drugs. If you go to any of these pharmacies, present your UHC member ID card (the UHC ID card covers medical, vision, and prescription benefits) and ask to have your at-home test kits submitted to the plan for coverage. There will be no out-of-pocket expense for you. Pay $0 through Optum Store online If you are enrolled in any of the University’s medical plans, you can now order COVID-19 home test kits online through the Optum Store with a $0 cost. Sign in to optumrx.com, scroll down to Get at-home COVID-19 tests with $0 copay, and click on the “Order Now” link. Members are limited to 8 tests (4 kits) per household per calendar month through the Optum Store. Members pay for shipping, unless purchase value totals $45 or more. Note: members can purchase the balance of tests—up to the maximum of 8 tests per member per calendar month—through the other retail options listed. Purchase at-home test kits directly and submit for reimbursement You may purchase test kits at any other store or online, and submit your purchase receipt(s) for reimbursement. To submit your reimbursement electronically, go to the OptumRx COVID-19 Over-the-Counter Test Reimbursement Form. To submit your reimbursement by mail, go to the OptumRx COVID-19 Test Kit Reimbursement Request Form, print the form, and follow the mailing instructions on page 2 of the form. Expand all Collapse all Frequently Asked Questions Who is eligible to be reimbursed for at-home tests? Individuals enrolled in any of the University’s UnitedHealthcare medical plans can get up to 8 individual tests per month, up to $12 per test. For example, if you have Yourself & Spouse coverage, you will be eligible for up to 16 individual tests per month. Is there a limit on the number of tests, or the reimbursement amount? Yes. Covered members are eligible to be reimbursed up to $12 per single test, but not more that the cost per test. A maximum of 8 tests per month, per plan member may be submitted for reimbursement. If you cover yourself and your family, for a total of 4 plan members, then you would be eligible for reimbursement of up to 32 tests in a month. What types of tests are eligible for reimbursement? COVID-19 at-home test kits that have been authorized by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are covered. What information is required to submit the reimbursement form? Whether you are requesting reimbursement from OptumRx through the electronic form or by printing and mailing in the request, information from your membership card will be required. In addition, please note that you must submit one reimbursement request per member. The information requested from your membership card includes the Group Number, Member Number, Rx Bin, Rx PCN, and Rx Group. Each of these can be found on your UnitedHealthcare member ID card: Can I use at-home tests to fulfill any of the Columbia University COVID-19 testing requirements? No. For information on how to fulfill the University's testing requirements, please refer to the COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community. Still Have Questions? Additional information can be found on the OptumRx Over-the-counter at home COVID-19 test kits website, or you can reach out to OptumRx directly at 1-800-232-9357, Monday to Friday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Benefits Tools CUBES Making Changes to Your Benefits Vendor Contacts FAQs - Benefits Glossary What Is My Employment Group? Benefits Policies Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close