Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Learning & Development LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 LinkedIn Learning Spotlight May Challenge: Cultivate Resilience Resilience is one of the most common traits of successful, happy people. Check out the challenge calendar LinkedIn Learning Spotlight Spring Cleaning Challenge Refresh your space Declutter & organize Check out the challenge calendar Previous Next What is LinkedIn Learning? LinkedIn Learning offers on-demand courses, led by industry experts. These video tutorials and resources can help you discover and develop your skills in areas such as software and technology, leadership and project management, and even mindfulness. It can also help you prepare for professional certification exams and earn continuing education credits -- plus much more! Through your Columbia University subscription, faculty & staff have unlimited access to over 16,000 courses, available at no cost to you. UNI and password are required to login If you need technical assistance accessing your LinkedIn Learning account, contact the CUIT Help Desk or click here for FAQ and more information. Enter the Challenge Follow these steps to enter either (or both) of April's Challenges: Download the LinkedIn Learning Challenge calendar Complete each short LinkedIn Learning challenge (less than 5 mins each) Initial besides each title, once you’ve watched the daily video Share your progress to win - submit the LinkedIn Learning Challenge Submission form with a photo/PDF of your completed calendar and your biggest takeaway by Wednesday, May 31, 2022 to be entered into the monthly raffle. One lucky winner will be randomly chosen to receive a prize! Challenge Tips Print or save the challenge calendar. Consider placing it in a location that you frequent often, such as near your computer/desk, on your fridge, or save it on your computer desktop. . Create a daily calendar reminder at a period of the day when you typically have down time -- that way a reminder will pop-up, triggering you to complete the day's activity. RECOMMENDED COURSES Below are highlighted learning paths, with courses to help you get started with LinkedIn Learning. Check back periodically, as suggested topics will change to showcase courses best fit to accommodate our Columbia faculty & staff. Categories Explore the learning paths below. Choose to complete the entire series, or select one or more unique courses that best fit your interests -- the choice is yours! Hybrid Work (Individual Contributors) Hybrid Work (Leaders & Managers) Leadership & Management Microsoft Office Mindfulness & Well-Being Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close