Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Health & Welfare Officers - Health & Welfare Officers - Tax Savings Accounts Officers - Health Savings Account Officers - Health Savings Account A Health Savings Account (HSA) is a pre-tax savings account paired with the University's High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) to pay for current and future medical expenses for you and your dependents. The HSA is administered by Optum Bank. Expand all Collapse all Using an HSA Making the Most Out of Your HSA View Optum Webinar: Making the Most Out of Your Health Saving Account Healthcare FSA vs. Health Saving Account (HSA) See HSA v. FSA: What are the differences? Comparison Chart HSA Restrictions Under IRS regulations, if you enroll in an HSA, you cannot participate in a Healthcare FSA (including rollover amounts). If your spouse participates in a Healthcare FSA that permits reimbursement of your unreimbursed medical expenses, you will not be eligible to establish or contribute to an HSA until you are no longer covered by your spouse’s Healthcare FSA. You will not be eligible to establish or contribute to an HSA if you are covered by a medical plan option that is not an HSA-qualified HDHP (e.g., a spouse’s employer’s non-HDHP coverage). You can contribute to the HSA if you are over age 65, but only if you are not enrolled in any Medicare benefits (including Part A). Note for Same-Sex Domestic Partners IRS rules do not allow you to use your HSA to reimburse yourself for the expenses of your same-sex domestic partner or his/her children. How to Start, Build, Grow and Use an HSA Tips on how to start, build, grow and use a Health Savings Account: View HSA infographic Funding Your HSA Here’s how you can save using your HSA: Pre-tax contributions. You can elect automatic payroll deductions on a pre-tax basis to fund your account and your election will be deducted in equal installments from each paycheck. You can change your contribution amount at any time. Keep in mind that the total amount of your contributions cannot exceed $3,600* for individual coverage and $7,200* for family coverage. You cannot elect to pre-fund your HSA at the beginning of the year. Catch-up contributions. If you are at least age 55 and are not enrolled in Medicare, you can make “catch-up” contributions to your HSA. The maximum catch-up contribution is $1,000*. Note: If you are considering after-tax HSA contributions, you may want to consult with a tax adviser or financial professional. *IRS limits are subject to change. Accessing HSA Funds You can choose to pay your bills out of your own pocket or through your HSA. If you choose to pay through your HSA, you can use: Your Optum Bank HSA Debit Mastercard Online Bill Payment Service available on www.myuhc.com For example, you could use your HSA debit card to pay for prescription drugs at the pharmacy. Important Note on Access You cannot access funds in your HSA until you have contributed them. You need to build up your HSA contributions—made through payroll deductions—before taking money out of your HSA for eligible expenses. Your HSA funds will be available as soon as administratively possible after Columbia has sent your payroll deductions to Optum Bank. Qualified Medical Expenses Qualified medical expenses that may be paid through your HSA on a tax-free basis include: most medical care and services; dental and vision care; prescription drugs; and premiums paid for COBRA, long-term care and medical and prescription drug expenses as a retiree, including Medicare premiums. You can see a complete list of eligible expenses at www.irs.gov (Publications 969 and 502). Optum Bank, a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group, is the administrator of the HSA. You can reach Optum Bank by calling UHC customer service at 800-791-9361 or at www.optumbank.com. If you have an account balance of at least $2,000, you can choose to invest among multiple investment options. Any earnings are automatically reinvested and grow tax-free. Investing Your HSA Funds Investing your Health Savings Account (HSA) funds is a way to save for long-term health care needs and financial goals. HSAs are triple tax advantaged, making them an effective savings and investment account: Payroll contributions to an HSA are tax-advantaged All interest earnings and investment growth from deposits are income tax-free (in most states) HSAs can be used income tax-free for qualified medical expenses If you participate in an HSA through the University, and you have an account balance of at least $2,000, you can invest a portion of your funds with Optum Bank through Betterment, an independent online financial advisor. Investing With Optum Bank If you participate in an HSA through the University, and you have an account balance of at least $2,000, you can invest a portion of your funds with Optum Bank through Betterment, an independent online financial advisor. Betterment offers: Online financial advice. Help building a personalized portfolio with risk levels and investment mixes to suit your preferences. Holistic advice across all your accounts, including external accounts. Tax-coordination between an HSA and other retirement accounts to optimize your retirement savings. Learn more at Betterment.com/investing. Making Changes to an HSA If you change health plans, leave Columbia or retire: You do not pay taxes on the money you withdraw to pay for current and/or future qualified healthcare expenses. Withdrawals for non-qualified expenses are subject to taxes and an additional 20% penalty if you’re under age 65. You should keep careful records of your healthcare expenses and the corresponding withdrawals from your HSA, in case you need to provide proof to the IRS to support your account distributions reported on Form 8889 with your annual IRS tax return. Your HSA Elections You can change your HSA elections at any time during the year. The change will always be effective on the first of the following month. Your Personal Account The HSA is your personal account, which you can continue to use even if you change health plans, leave Columbia or retire. Health & Welfare Benefits Officers - Health & Welfare Eligibility Dependent Eligibility Medical Dental Vision Prescription Drug Tax Savings Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts Health Savings Account Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program Life Insurance Accidental Death & Dismemberment Disability Insurance Voluntary Benefits Well-being Related Documents Medical Claim Form Benefits Tools CUBES Making Changes to Your Benefits Vendor Contacts FAQs - Benefits Glossary What Is My Employment Group? Benefits Policies Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close