Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Some prescriptions can be ordered online and delivered to your home or office. Find out how your Columbia benefits can save you time and money in addition to supporting your health. Learn more about the Columbia University Prescription Drug plan: Go to the Health & Welfare Benefits page and choose the tab that corresponds to your employment group—then select “Prescription Drug.” Expand all Collapse all Accessing Your Benefits Prescription Drug Coverage If you enroll in a Columbia University medical plan, you have prescription drug coverage through OptumRx. Your UHC ID card includes both medical and prescription drug plan information. You can buy prescriptions at any pharmacy you wish, but you will likely pay more if you go outside the OptumRx network. The cost of prescriptions depends on a number of factors, including the medical plan in which you are enrolled and whether a drug is generic, single-source or multi-source. To find out if your pharmacy is in the network, log in to myuhc.com and choose “MANAGE YOUR PRESCRIPTIONS” then “GO TO OPTUMRX.” When filling a prescription for a medication that you’ll take one time or short-term, using a local pharmacy (Duane Reade, CVS, Walgreens, Walmart, Costco, etc.) is the way to go. Prescription Drug Delivery How It Works If you take long-term or maintenance medication —such as for the ongoing treatment of diabetes, asthma, high blood pressure, depression or other behavioral health conditions—using OptumRx’s mail-order program will cost you less for most drugs. Plus, mail-order offers the convenience of free delivery to your home or work, so you won’t need to make a trip to the pharmacy during bad weather or carve out time on a busy day. Although you are not required to use mail-order, doing so has several advantages in addition to cost savings: Safety and quality Prescriptions filled by OptumRx undergo as many as 16 quality checks before they’re sent to you. Whether you fill a prescription at a local store or via mail order, a licensed pharmacist physically checks every prescription. (It’s the law.) Pharmacists on call Get answers to your questions. Call 800-232-9357 to speak with a pharmacist day or night, 24/7. Easy tracking The myuhc.com website makes it easy to track your prescription status, transfer current prescriptions to mail-order, compare drug costs, download forms and more. You can also sign up to receive texts and emails to remind you to take your medication and order refills. How to Enroll To enroll in the mail-order program, use one of the following options: Online registration: Log in to myuhc.com; select “MANAGE YOUR PRESCRIPTIONS” then “GO TO OPTUMRX;” register and follow the step-by-step instructions. Manage your medication(s) online, including filling new prescriptions and transferring other prescriptions to home delivery. You can set up text message reminders to help manage your medication schedule. Be sure to have your UHC ID card and medication bottles on hand. Telephone: Call 800-232-9357 on the back of your UHC ID card to speak with a customer service representative. It’s helpful to have both your UHC ID card and most recent prescription bottle to help answer questions. The representative can contact your doctor directly if you need a new prescription. Regular mail: Ask your doctor for a new prescription for up to a three-month supply, plus refills for up to one year. Then go to myuhc.com and download the new prescription order form. Mail it to the address provided on the bottom of the form. Fax/ePrescribe: Ask your doctor to call 1-800-791-7658 for instructions on how to fax your prescription directly to OptumRx. Or your doctor can send an electronic prescription to OptumRx. To transfer an existing prescription, call OptumRx at the number on the back of your UHC ID card. Have your card and prescription bottle on hand for the call. Plan Ahead It can take up to 2 weeks to receive your first prescription through mail order. Refills typically take one week. Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close