Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home News Benefits for Student Officers Benefits News Benefits for Student Officers November 01, 2021 As a student officer you are eligible for two Human Resources programs: retirement and commuter savings. We encourage you to take advantage of both benefits. RETIREMENT SAVINGS The University’s Voluntary Retirement Savings Program (VRSP) is a 403(b) retirement plan that lets you contribute from 1% to 80% of your eligible pay, on a pre-tax (deducted along with any other taxes) and/or Roth after-tax (deducted from take-home pay) basis, up to the annual IRS limit. You have a wide range of funds to choose from for investing your savings, available through TIAA and/or Vanguard. You are always 100% entitled to the value of your own contributions. To enroll in or make changes to the VRSP, log in to CUBES; select "Retirement" and follow the prompts. For more information go to our Retirement Savings and Financial Planning page. COMMUTER SAVINGS Beginning January 1, 2022, you will be eligible for the Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program (T/PRP). The T/PRP is a convenient way to pay for commuting expenses with pre-tax dollars, deducted directly from your paycheck each month. Beginning in 2022 you can enroll in or make changes to the T/PRP at any time during the year. To enroll in or make changes to the T/PRP, log in to CUBES; select "My Benefits Summary" then “Transit/Parking Elections” and follow the prompts. For more information go to our Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program page. QUESTIONS If you have questions about your benefits, contact the Columbia Benefits Service Center by phone: 212-851-7000, or email: [email protected]. Tags Student Officers T/PRP Retirement News May 17, 2022 Submit PTS - The School at Columbia Applications, starting June 1, 2022 May 17, 2022 Submit PTS - NYC Private Schools Applications, starting June 1, 2022 February 23, 2022 Let your heart take the lead February 01, 2022 Reminder: Job Related Graduate Education Certification Due 2/4/2022 January 14, 2022 At-Home COVID-19 Test Reimbursement Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close