Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Workplace Essentials Workers' Compensation Workers' Compensation All Columbia University employees are covered by the New York State Workers' Compensation Law. Workers' Compensation is insurance that will provide you with cash and/or medical care if you have been injured or become ill as a direct result of your job. Claims for Workers' Compensation may be filed in situations where you just want to report that an incident occurred as well as for those incidents that require a medical leave of absence. Expand all Collapse all Submit Accident Report Form & Instructions First, if needed, seek medical attention. Second, report the accident to your supervisor. And then fill out the Accident Report form within 24 hours of the incident: Download and print the Accident Report Form Complete all sections of the form Sign it Scan and email the form to: [email protected] [email protected] And your Departmental HR contact or your supervisor After the Accident Report Form is completed, your Departmental HR Contact will file a claim with the Workers’ Compensation insurance carrier on your behalf. Further review of the incident may be initiated by your supervisor, Department or someone from Environmental Health and Safety. If you will be absent from work due to your injury, follow the instructions below. Expand all Collapse all If Absent from Work: How to Submit Documentation Remember: Seek medical attention if you need immediate help. You should report the incident to your supervisor, and complete a Accident Report Form for Workers’ Compensation Benefits. Complete this form within 24 hours of the incident to avoid any delays in the process. If you will be absent from work, please complete the following steps: If you will be absent from work due to your injury, ask your Departmental HR contact to provide you with any applicable forms to complete. You will return the forms to CUHR Leave Management Office. You will also need to provide your supervisor and CUHR Leave Management with a doctor’s note to cover your absence. You must keep your supervisor and the Leave Management Officer properly updated on your return-to-work date. Nearby Treatment Locations Medical Treatment If you need medical treatment, you should seek medical attention immediately at a location most convenient to you. Please note that any private physician authorized by the Workers' Compensation Board can be used. Morningside/Manhattanville Mount Sinai St. Luke’s Emergency Room 1111 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10025 (212) 523-4000 CUIMC Workforce Health and Safety 1st floor Harkness Pavilion Open Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (212) 305-7590. Note: You must have a Columbia University ID to be seen. Alternate location New York Presbyterian Hospital Emergency Room 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 (212) 305-2500 Lamont Nyack Hospital 160 N Midland Ave Nyack, NY 10960 (845) 348-2000 Useful Information For All Employees If you are eligible for leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), FMLA will run concurrently with Workers’ Compensation Officer of Administration Full-Time Officers of Administration, including those in an Eleven-Month Program: eligible for a paid medical leave for up to six months (salary continuation) during any rolling 12-month period when extended absence is caused by a work related accident or illness. Workers’ Compensation will run concurrently. Officers of Instruction, Research and Libraries See the Faculty Handbook All Other Officers of Administration, including Nine-Month, Ten-Month Part-Time Officers of Administration, and Non-Union Support Staff You may be eligible for partial payment by Workers' Compensation, as determined by New York State law based on Workers' Compensation guidelines. Union Support Staff Per the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA), paid leave may be available. Employee’s eligible for paid leave by the University will remit any payments received by Workers’ Compensation to the University. The CBA should be consulted for more information. Billing When receiving treatment for a workplace injury, you will not need to pay the doctor or hospital and your private insurance should not be billed. If any charges are incurred, you should save all receipts and mail them to our insurer, PMA, for processing. Employees working out of state should contact the CUHR Leave Management Office. PMA Customer Service Center P.O. Box 5231 Janesville, WI 53547-5231 Telephone: (888) 476-2669 Fax: 800-432-9762 Email: [email protected] Returning to Work Prior to returning to work, submit medical certification from your physician (doctor's note) to the CUHR Leave Management Office and appropriate carrier (PMA for Workers' Compensation or Cigna for NYSDBL). Please also reach out to your Departmental HR contact to provide an update on your return to work. Workplace Accommodation If you require a workplace accommodation, contact the CUHR Leave Management Office to coordinate with you and your department prior to your return to work. Expand all Collapse all Important Notices Disclaimer The Leaves of Absence section is intended only to provide information and guidance for processing leaves for Columbia University Officers, staff and union employees. The writers of the content have exercised their best efforts to ensure accuracy of the information, but accuracy is not guaranteed. If there are any discrepancies between the information on the website, verbal representations and the Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBAs) or applicable University policies, the CBAs and applicable policies will always govern. The information is subject to change from time to time. The information contained on the website is intended to provide examples and does not replace the CBAs or University policies. Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) In addition to FMLA, other University policies and laws, if eligible, will run concurrently, including NY Safe and Sick Leave and all applicable State/City/County Laws. FMLA does not supersede any University policy or collective bargaining agreement that provides greater family or medical leave rights than the rights established under FMLA. Conversely, FMLA provides that the rights established for employees under FMLA cannot be diminished by any policy or agreement. The leave granted under FMLA generally is a lesser benefit than that available under various University policies and collective bargaining agreements. Because the University meets or exceeds FMLA requirements in many respects, this policy designates many existing types of leave as FMLA leave, so that the University leaves and the FMLA leave run concurrently. Workplace Essentials Collective Bargaining Agreements Labor & Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary & Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take Vacation & Time Away Take a Leave of Absence Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct Leave Management Office 615 West 131st Street, MC 8703 Studebaker 4th Floor New York, NY 10027 Telephone: 212-851-0698 Fax: 212-851-7069 Email: [email protected] Resources Workers' Compensation Policy Guidelines Family Medical Leave Act Policy Workers' Compensation Poster NY Workers' Compensation Board NY Wokers' Compensation Poster Accident Report Form Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close