Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Human Resource Management Empowering a Community of Excellence Search form Search Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Menu Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs HRM CMS Documentation Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Search Search form Search Home Flexible Work Getting Started Flexible Work - Getting Started Flexible Work Arrangements Flexible work arrangements can look differently based on the position, job duties and customers an employee supports. A flexible work arrangement might be a schedule modification, a change as to where the work is performed, or both. Defining flexible Work Fully Remote: An employee spends most, or all, of their working hours outside the traditional/assigned campus work location. Visits to the campus work location are infrequent but may be required occasionally for in-person activities (e.g., training, meetings, etc.). A fully remote worker may be located within the U.S. or District of Colombia however all state employment laws and tax requirements must be followed. When returning to the campus/designated work site, employees will be able to access/schedule “hoteling” locations for a temporary workspace. Hybrid: Allows an employee to work a specific number of days of the week (generally one or more) outside of the on-campus worksite and the remainder of the hours at the assigned campus worksite. In a hybrid environment, supervisors and employees need to have a strong communication plan if the assigned work location does not have standardization each week. The employee may or may not have a designated on-campus individual workstation but is likely to have a designated work area Flexible Schedule/Flextime: An arrangement where an employee works any approved schedule that does not adhere to the traditional assigned work schedule (e.g., Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.). It may include varying the work hours, the days of the week, or both. How to Decide if a Flexible Work Arrangement is Best It is often difficult to know if a remote work arrangement will be successful in a post-pandemic work environment with units balancing the needs of an active residential campus with a highly engaged research community. When areas of uncertainty exist, utilize the Forms and Policy information to begin to define and describe the specifics of the arrangement. Each position is different and will need to be assessed on an individualized basis. It is recommended that new or revised remote work assignments are piloted for a six-month period. During that period, communication is critical so that expectations are clear for everyone so that the arrangement can be discussed and modified accordingly. Items to Consider When Proposing a Remote Work or Flexible Scheduling Arrangement Employee Is the change essential for success of the unit, customer, and employee? Outline the benefits of the requested change to the supervisor, customer, and colleagues. Anticipate challenges and provide suggestions or possible solutions. Be open to feedback and changes to what is being proposed. Be accountable for what is agreed to. Communicate with your supervisor to ensure that the arrangement and your productivity are meeting expectations. Discuss expectations of staying engaged and connected with customers and colleagues. Regularly evaluate the arrangement with your supervisor and be open to implement adjustments. Understand that a remote work arrangement may not be possible for all positions or in all locations as defined by University policy or the unit. Supervisor Review the position duties to determine if a remote work or flexible schedule arrangement would be beneficial to the unit and/or customer. Work with the employee to address/anticipate challenges, obstacles, or problems. Consider equity; do similar arrangements exist with other staff in a similar role? Clearly communicate tasks, expectations, work schedules, and communication platforms. Measure performance looking at job performance, productivity and behaviors. Provide regular feedback. Be willing to reverse or modify the plan if it is not serving the unit or customer needs. Set expectations for procedures and guidelines for remote work and flexible work arrangements with all employees. Develop an inclusive communication method for all employees which may mean using a technology platform so that all employees can participate. Acquire approval from unit leadership for a change in a work location assignment or schedule. Review the University policy to understand the limitations of the type of position and locations that qualify for remote work. Contact hrdept@ku.edu for more information regarding work location sites outside of Kansas and Missouri. Employees and supervisors are expected to discuss the needs and issues presented, working together to develop the best arrangement possible. If, following the discussion, a change to a work location is to go forward a HRM Work Location Request form must be completed for review and approval by Human Resource Management. Flexible Work Quick Links Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policy & Resources Keys to Success Training FAQs Need Help? Ask Us! Submit an Inquiry Quick Links Apply For A Job Benefits Health Insurance Hiring Process Holidays HR/Pay Login New Employee Packet Search Committee Login Tuition Assistance Vacation Leave Search for HRM Policies Search for Policies and Forms Visit the Policy Office for more information. HRM Calendars HR Pay Donate to Staff Emergency Assistance Fund KU Today 2022 Plan Rates & Comparison Chart Contact Human Resource Management hrdept@ku.edu 785-864-4946 Department of Human Resource Management University of Kansas Carruth O'Leary Hall, Room 103 1246 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045-7521 HR Intranet Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login