Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Benefits Legal and Administrative Plan Documents and Notices Benefits Legal and Administrative Plan Documents and Notices Federal regulations require employers to provide employees with specific information (“notices”) concerning their rights and responsibilities under a benefits program on an annual basis. These notices cover a variety of topics and may not apply to everyone. Expand all Collapse all Information Legal and Administrative Notices Legal and Administrative Notices This document includes the following Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) notices: COBRA, HIPAA, WHCRA, CHIP, QLSC, CCDN, GINA. Health and Welfare Documents 2020 Summary Annual Reports (SAR) Summary Annual Report (SAR) for Group Benefits Plan Summary of Benefits Coverage Summary of Benefits and Coverage - High Deductible Health Plan Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice In-Network Plan Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice In-Network Local 2110 Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice In-Network NUSS Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice Plus 80 J1 Visa Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice Plus 80 Obama Fellows Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice Plus 80 Officers Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice Plus 80 Postdocs Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice Plus 80 TWU Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice Plus 90 Local 2110 Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice Plus 90 NUSS Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice Plus 90 Officers Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice Plus 90 SSA Summary of Benefits and Coverage - Choice Plus 100 Officers Retirement Documents Summary Annual Report (SAR) - Group Benefits Plan Summary Annual Report (SAR) - Officers Summary Annual Report (SAR) - SSA Summary Annual Report (SAR) - Support Staff Summary Annual Report (SAR) - VRSP All Officer legal documents All Support Staff legal documents Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021 No Surprise Act (NSA) / Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 The U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS), Labor, and Treasury, and the Office of Personnel Management, issued “Requirements Related to Surprise Billing; Part I,” an interim final rule that will restrict excessive out of pocket costs to consumers from surprise billing and balance billing. Surprise billing happens when people unknowingly get care from providers that are outside of their health plan’s network and can happen for both emergency and non-emergency care. Balance billing, when a provider charges a patient the remainder of what their insurance does not pay, is currently prohibited in both Medicare and Medicaid. This rule will extend similar protections to Americans insured through employer-sponsored and commercial health plans. Among other provisions, the interim final rule: Bans surprise billing for emergency services. Emergency services, regardless of where they are provided, must be treated on an in-network basis without requirements for prior authorization. Bans high out-of-network cost-sharing for emergency and non-emergency services. Patient cost-sharing, such as co-insurance or a deductible, cannot be higher than if such services were provided by an in-network doctor, and any coinsurance or deductible must be based on in-network provider rates. Bans out-of-network charges for ancillary care (like an anesthesiologist or assistant surgeon) at an in-network facility in all circumstances. Bans other out-of-network charges without advance notice. Health care providers and facilities must provide patients with a plain-language consumer notice explaining that patient consent is required to receive care on an out-of-network basis before that provider can bill at the higher out-of-network rate. These provisions will provide patients with financial peace of mind while seeking emergency care as well as safeguard them from unknowingly accepting out-of-network care and subsequently incurring surprise billing expenses. The interim final rule implements the first of several requirements passed with bipartisan support in title I (the “No Surprises Act”) of division BB of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021. The regulations for group health plans, health insurance issuers, and FEHB Program carriers, will take effect for plan, policy, or contract years beginning on or after January 1, 2022. For more information go to www.cms.gov, or No Surprises Act Notice. Go Paperless: Electronic Delivery In support of the University’s sustainability mission, you can choose electronic delivery for certain benefits communications. Log in to CUBES to Go Paperless. If the law does not permit a document to be sent electronically, it will be sent via U.S. Postal Service Mail. Log in to CUBES Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close