Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources HR Manager Toolkit Compensation and Salary Accounting Compensation and Salary Accounting This section of the toolkit addresses additional compensation, salary distributions, cost transfers and garnishments. Expand all Collapse all Policy & Process Additional Compensation Policy Officers of the University are expected to work the time required to accomplish the responsibilities of their primary position without additional compensation. However, there are situations where it may be appropriate and desirable to compensate individuals for work other than that performed in their primary position. Please refer to the Additional Compensation policy located in the University Policies Site for further details. Training and More Information Additional compensation payments are one-time or ongoing payments that are made in addition to regular earnings for active salaried officers. This includes officers of instruction, research, libraries and administration plus student officers. Add comps are made for many reasons, and can be paid all in one pay period or be spread out over multiple pay periods. These payments can be paid to employees both within the administrative department and to employees in another administrative department and are processed via PAC. Reasons for paying an add comp include: Extra pay for additional duties performed Special one-time payments Ongoing clinical payments of varying types Every additional compensation transaction has an Earning Code that identifies the type of add comp the employee is to receive. Additional compensation payments for union and non-union support staff (e.g., shift differentials) are handled in the Time Collection Module in FFE. For more information on using FFE, please refer to the Finance Training Catalog. Visit the Human Resources Training Catalog for training information on processing additional compensation payments. View the Payroll Calendars for key dates and deadlines related to submitting and approving additional compensation transactions. There are rare instances when an additional compensation transaction must be submitted via paper instead of through PAC. Visit the Payroll section on the Finance Gateway for more information and to access the form. Salary Distributions A salary distribution is the process by which departments communicate the allocation of regular earnings for faculty and staff to the Accounting and Reporting at Columbia (ARC) system. Departments create salary distribution profiles in PAC which detail the ComboCodes / ChartStrings to which the employee’s earnings should be charged. At the time of hire/rehire, a salary distribution profile is created for all faculty and staff via Template-Based Hire (TBH), or by Payroll for employees who could not be hired using TBH. Once an employee is hired and their record is in PAC, an employee's salary distribution profile can be changed through the Salary Distribution transaction process. The salary distribution only changes the allocation going forward. To retroactively modify an employee's profile, that is, to make changes to payroll charges that have already been paid out, a cost transfer transaction must be entered. Visit the Course Catalog for information on processing salary distributions. There are limited circumstances when a Salary Distribution Form must be used. For more information on using the Salary Distribution Form, please go to the Payroll section of the Finance Gateway. Cost Transfers A salary cost transfer is the process by which departments tell the university accounting system, ARC, to move actual payroll (not future) charges for an employee from one or more ComboCode(s)/ChartString(s) to other ComboCode(s)/ChartString(s). Cost transfers can only be initiated for payroll charges that have already been processed by the payroll system. At the time of hire/rehire, a salary distribution profile is created for all faculty and staff via Template-Based Hire (TBH), or by Payroll for employees who could not be hired using TBH. An employee's past salary charges can be transferred to different ComboCodes, by those in the home department with security access to do so, through the cost transfer transaction process in PAC. The requested transfer will only be completed once the payroll charges have been committed to the Accounting and Reporting at Columbia (ARC) system. By creating a cost transfer in the PAC system, the user is asking ARC to move payroll charges for a specific employee for a specific period of time and a specific earnings code between ComboCodes. This is done to retroactively make changes to payroll charges that have already been paid out. Every earnings charge has an Earnings Code that identifies the type of earnings the employee received. Cost transfer transactions are created for both active and inactive employees in your home department(s) for both the current fiscal year and minus-two fiscal years. For example, in FY18, you can complete cost transfers for FY18, FY17 and FY16. Cost transfers are completed for many reasons, including: when an employee’s earnings are in suspense a salary distribution profile or funding arrangement ends before a new one is set up a department decides to charge a different ChartString for an employee's salary or add comp (or portion of) any time there is a need to move payroll charges (salary expense or additional compensation payments) between ComboCodes/ChartStrings if at the time of hire, a Grant Project was not yet established and the salary expenses were allocated to other departmental ComboCodes Visit the Course Catalog for information on processing cost transfers. There are limited instances when a cost transfer cannot be done in PAC and is requested using the Labor Accounting Request Cost Transfer Form in Service Now. For more information on how to complete a cost transfer via the form, please visit the Payroll section of the Finance Gateway. Refer to the Sponsored Project Cost Transfers policy for more information on submitting cost transfers to sponsored projects. Garnishments A garnishment is a legal deduction of a specified sum from wages to satisfy a creditor by order of the courts. For more information, please visit the Garnishments section located on the Payroll website. HR Manager Toolkit Workplace Management Time & Attendance Vacation Balances & Org Charts Personal Data Promotions, Transfers & Retirement Layoffs & Terminations Managing Salary & Pay Salary Changes & Adjustments Compensation & Salary Accounting Flexible Work Arrangements Performance Management Workplace Conduct Management Related Documents Payroll Earnings Codes Chart Additional Compensation Payments Training Guide Additional Pay Page Salary Distribution Transactions Training Guide Salary Distribution Job Aid Cost Transfer Transactions Training Guide Cost Transfer Job Aid Top Tools Logins & Access HR Systems Training FAQs Reporting Time & Attendance Union Contracts Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close