Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Resources Discounts & Perks Discounts & Perks Columbia University faculty and staff may take advantage of free or discounted prices on a range of goods and services for work and/or personal use—from consumer electronics, to hotels, to event tickets, to wellness programs, to referral services. Expand all Collapse all Current Discounts & Perks Shopping & Entertainment Discounts Arts Initiative at Columbia Arts Initiative at Columbia University: The CU Arts Initiative offers discounts to movies, Broadway, off-Broadway and other live performances, and access to cultural institutions throughout the city to faculty and staff. Corporate Shopping Employee Discounts Corporate Shopping Employee Discounts connects Columbia University employees and students to over 250 top national retailers offering incredible employee discounts and private offers. A few popular retailers include: Lands’ End, Costco, Ralph Lauren, Orbitz, Hotels.com, Kmart, Target, J.Crew, Brooks Brothers, 1800Flowers, ProFlowers, FTD, Shoes.com, Avis, Hertz, Budget, Enterprise Rent-a-Car, Citibank Mortgage Program, Restaurant.com, FragranceNet & Many More! REGISTER NOW and enjoy instant access - it’s easy and you can access the site from both work and home! BROOKS BROTHERS ENROLL NOW for your FREE Brooks Brothers Corporate Membership Card and Save 15% OFF on regular price merchandise at Brooks Brothers U.S. and Canadian stores (including Outlets), by phone or online at BrooksBrothers.com. Offer: 15% OFF Organization ID #: 06001 Organization Enrollment Pin: 72644 Organization Name: Corporate Shopping Company CHASE MORTGAGE When it comes to mortgages, Chase’s dedicated team can help you when buying or refinancing your home. Start now and get up to $750 of your mortgage. Get started now by call 1800-550-2684 or by clicking on the link below. https://corporateshopping.com/discounts/chase (For Hotels and Car Rentals, see Travel listings) Millenia Optical Millenia Optical is the Premier Optical suite of Harlem, providing the community with the best prices for quality designer prescription frames and shades. Our Doctor is on premises Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays for Routine and Medical eye exams. Our professional staff are experts in finding the perfect eyeglasses for your face shape and lifestyle. We specialize in exceptional customer service and will always go the extra mile. Exclusive promotions for Columbia faculty and staff: $100 off Designer Frames Buy ONE get ONE free on designer Sunglasses (of equal or lesser value) Special pricing on prescription lenses Columbia ID must be presented to take advantage of these offerings Location: 469 W 125th Street New York, NY 10027 (Corner of Amsterdam Ave and 125th Street) Phone: (646) 767-9159 Fax: (646) 767-9249 Hours: Monday - Thursday: 9:00 am to 6:00 pm Friday: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm Saturday: Closed Sunday: 10:00 am to 5:00 pm Spendless As part of the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) through Humana, SpendLess is an online program that offers faculty and staff exclusive discounts on a variety of name-brand products and services at national retailers such as Ann Taylor, Avis, Barnes & Noble, The Children's Place, Footlocker, GAP, GNC, PetSmart, ProFlowers, Target, and more. Log in to the EAP website Username: columbia Password: eap Click on "Click here for the Humana web site" On the site, move your cursor over the tab "What's On Your Mind" and choose "Daily Living" from the drop down menu You will find the "Discount Center" link on the right hand column Registration required. Six Flags Great Adventure Please use Working Advantage or TicketsatWork to purchase discounted Six Flags tickets TicketsatWork TicketsatWork is the leading Corporate Entertainment Benefits provider, offering exclusive discounts, special offers and access to preferred seating and tickets to top attractions, theme parks, shows, sporting events, movie tickets, hotels and much more. TicketsatWork is a unique benefit offered exclusively to companies and their employees. Tickets can be ordered online or by calling 1-800-331-6483. Our company code: CUMC Working Advantage Columbia University is pleased to offer a great benefit—Working Advantage! With Working Advantage, you can save up to 40% on movie tickets nationwide. Working Advantage also offers incredible discounts on Broadway Theatre, theme parks, hotels, sporting events, family events, online shopping, gift certificates, seasonal ski tickets and more! Now available to faculty, students and staff. To register for your free account: Visit Working Advantage Click on “Register” in the orange box at the top of the page Then click "Employees Click Here" Company code: 99042065 Phone & TV Columbia students, faculty and staff are eligible to receive discounts from the following phone carriers. The account must be in the Columbia member's name to qualify. AT&T 18% off per month and other discounts. Please use the following number, Faculty/Staff FAN: 2498569, or use vanity URL - http://www.att.com/wireless/columbiau. T-Mobile Savings for Employees of Columbia University Visit our T-Mobile Perks site for all current promotions! Online: https://t-mo.co/30VDspy Get premium features when you sign up for Magenta MAX & T-Mobile Work Perks: Unlimited talk, text and smartphone data on our 5G & 4G LTE network 5G access with compatible device & coverage area 40GB of high-speed mobile hotspot data Unlimited 3G speed Smartphone Mobile Hotspot after 40GB (up to 600 kbps) Unlimited Premium Data…that means no throttling Up to 4K UHD video streaming (must activate Up to 4k UHD video streaming) 200MB domestic data roaming All recurring taxes and fees Mobile Without Borders Simple Global (up to 256 kbps) Stateside International Unlimited Texting Gogo in-flight unlimited texting and unlimited Wi-Fi Scam Shield Premium Netflix On Us (single line includes basic 1-screen; 2+ lines includes standard 2-screen) Ways to Join Our Program: Online: https://t-mo.co/30VDspy In-Store: t-mobile.com/store-locator Telesales: 855-570-9947 ***Mention Promo Code PERKSNY3 for savings General T-Mobile Work Perks Questions? Contact your local Account Manager for more information! Amanda Pagan-Glass ([email protected]) New T-Mobile Customers want to verify your discount? Go to https://my.t-mobile.com/profile or open the T-Mobile app and log in If you are not already on the Profile page, select Profile from the top right menu Select Employment Verification Confirm your employment status Enter Company Name, First and Last Name Enter Employment Work Email and Confirm Enter Mailing Address ………………………………………. Offers subject to change without notice. Verizon Wireless Get discounts on your monthly account level access fees on qualifying plans and enjoy discounts on eligible accessories. To learn more and find out how you can get your Verizon Wireless discounts go to: verizon.com/discounts Please use generic @columbia.edu email domain (without server) when signing up. Verizon Fios Home Internet & TV Exciting Employee Discounts from Verizon Fios! Double the discount on Fios Gigabit Internet for employees! · New Increased employee discount on Verizon Fios Gigabit Home Internet! · Higher speeds at the same great low employee rate! Now more than ever, we know how important it is to have Fast, Reliable Internet at an affordable rate. The Verizon Connections employee discount program is here to help! New Employee Internet Discount Structure: $5 off per month on all speeds up to 500M. (200M, 300M, 400M, 500M) $10 off Gigabit Internet (940/880M) **New increased discount, previously was $5 off/month** New Customer Offer: Fios Gigabit Connection (940/880M) $89.99 - $10 employee discount= $79.99/mo. Employee rate plus tax. · Free Router Rental included · Disney Bundle Free for 12 months (Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+) New Higher speeds for the same great price: 300/300Mbps (previously 200M) $39.99 - $5 employee discount = $34.99/mo. plus taxes & equip. charges. 500/500Mbps (previously 400M) $64.99 - $5 employee discount = $59.99/mo. plus taxes & equip. charges. · 300 & 500M include Disney Bundle Free for 6 months (Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+) Standard setup charge waived ($99 savings) when ordering new service online Offer available online only at verizon.com/connections Above rates include employee discount and Auto Pay discount. Plus tax and equipment. New Fios Internet required. Offer ends 5/10/22. Already Have Fios? Existing customers may be eligible for monthly discounts, go to verizon.com/connections to see if you qualify! Services ordered prior to January 2020 may require upgrade to Mix & Match platform to qualify. Signing Up Is Easy 1) Visit verizon.com/connections and enter your work email address. Don’t have a work email address, select “I don’t have a work email address” and follow prompts to verify employment 2) You will receive an email with a shopping link from Verizon Connections. 3) Click on the embedded link in the email. Then follow the prompts to start saving! Have Questions? Contact: [email protected] Offer only available at verizon.com/connections, orders placed anywhere else are not eligible. Travel, Hotels, Car Rentals NJ Transit Transportation Services has partnered with NJ TRANSIT to offer commuter benefits. Learn more about NJ commuter benefits ZipCar Join as a Columbia University affiliate (students, faculty and staff) and receive a discount toward membership. Get 24/7 access to Zipcars parked all over the city. Simply reserve online, let yourself in with your Zipcard and drive. Low hourly and daily rates always include gas and insurance. Disney Travel Planning Services Travel planning service, at no cost, specializing in custom packages including Walt Disney World, Disneyland, Disney Cruise Lines, Aulani, A Disney Resort and Spa, and Adventures by Disney. Click on the link above to learn more and book your trip. Hotels and Car Rentals Hertz Car Rental Discounts for Personal Travel Hertz negotiated rates for personal car rentals may be booked on the Online Booking Tool accessible via the Columbia Visitors Travel Portal. Hotel Discounts for Personal Travel Access to competitive rates at over 44,000 hotel properties across the globe, from boutique hotels to major chains may be booked on the Online Booking Tool accessible via the Columbia Visitors Travel Portal. Note: New users must create an account to access the Online Booking Tool via the Columbia Visitors Travel Portal. Columbia Bookstore Barnes & Noble Show your University ID Card at the registers of the Barnes & Noble on the Morningside campus to receive 10% off select items. Visit Columbia Bookstore to learn more Health & Wellness, Gym, and Fitness Visit the Office of Work/Life for wellness-related discounts on gym memberships, cycling, and nutrition. Get dental health discounts from Aetna for daily oral health care products. TalkSpace connects you virtually and confidentially with a professional therapist. 15% discount for University employees. Sanvello Self-care App helps diffuse stress, anxiety, and depression through on-demand coaching techniques. Premium services are free to UnitedHealthcare members. Call a Life Coach at no cost for guidance in how to achieve your personal goals. Computers & Software CUIT Computer Discounts Telephone: (212) 854-1919 Visit CUIT to learn more Schools and departments can make institutional computer purchases through Columbia's agreements with Dell and Apple. Preferred Vendor List Other personal discounts on software, electronics and other items are also available from certain University vendors through Purchasing's Preferred Vendor List. Columbia Purchasing Office Telephone: (212) 854-4179 Visit Purchasing Office The Purchasing Office is responsible for implementing and directing all University procurement policies and procedures. The Purchasing Office is committed to providing optimum procurement service and assistance to the University community, and working with faculty and staff to develop and implement sound, cost-effective policies, procedures and systems to facilitate the procurement of the goods and services needed to support University research and teaching. The Purchasing Office also negotiates and executes Master Agreements with vendors in order to provide the University Community with the best total cost for goods and services. Master Agreements utilize the University’s buying power, ensuring that the goods and services provided offer the best value to the University. The Purchasing Office web page is a resource that provides all pertinent information, including necessary forms, lists of all University Master Agreements, Purchasing Office phone numbers and email address, etc. If there are any questions concerning policies or procedures, the website can answer them or you can contact any Purchasing staff member. Referral Services The Employee Assistance Program offers free and discounted referral services: Free, 30-minute Legal, Mediation & Financial consultations and referrals to professional services. Call 888-673-1153 (TTY: 711) EAP 24-hour Hotline provides confidential counseling and referrals to professional services: 888-673-1153 (TTY: 711). Six free sessions with a certified counselor per topic. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close