Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Human Resource Management Empowering a Community of Excellence Search form Search Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Menu Home About Overview What We Do Mission & Vision Meet Our Staff Leadership Accessibility & ADA Education Benefits Employee Relations Employment HR Information Systems HR/Pay Administration Help Desk Learning & Development Organization Chart Calendars Contact Us Communications Accessibility Benefits Overview Health Leaves & Holidays Retirement Life & Other Insurance Eligibility Life Events Services Overview Employee Relations Recruitment New Employees Compensation Employee Recognition Resources Unemployment Fraud Learn & Develop Overview Professional Dev. Performance Mgmt. Talent Development System Tuition Assistance Organizational Development Time & Pay Overview Log In to HR/Pay » Resources Time Reporting Troubleshooting Flexible Work Getting Started Basic Guidelines Forms, Policies & Resources Flexible Work - Keys to Success Flexible Work - Training FAQs HRM CMS Documentation Office of Civil Rights » Jobs » CORONAVIRUS Info » Search Search form Search Home January 2022 HRM Newsletter January 2022 HRM Newsletter January, 2022 Inside this Edition Self-Evaluations Due Jan. 13 FY 2023 Goal Plans New Staff in Employee Relations Interview Question Builder Inclement Weather Employee of the Month Awards Tuition Assistance LinkedIn Learning Professional Development Fund State Employee Health Plan, Waiting period eliminated Voluntary Retirement Plans Faculty and Staff Wellness Available at Watkins Health Services HR Calendar Healthquest Rewards Program Performance Management System - Self Evaluation Due January 13, 2022 In October, all regular staff members due an annual evaluation received an email from the Performance Management System notifying them that the 2021 Annual Performance Evaluation had been launched and the self-evaluation was available for them to complete. The self-evaluation is due January 13, 2022. Once the employee completes their self-evaluation in the 2021 Annual Performance Evaluation, the employee will forward the self-evaluation to their supervisor within the Performance Management System. The entire evaluation process is to be completed by March 1, 2021. Human Resource Management has created a video on Best Practices in Employee Self-Evaluation. Step-by-Step Instructions for the evaluation process as an employee can be found at: Performance Evaluation - Step-by-Step Instructions for the Employee Step-by-Step Instructions for the evaluation process as a supervisor can be found at: Performance Evaluation - Step-by-Step Instructions for the Supervisor Additional training for the Performance Management System, to include desk side coaching can be requested by emailing hrdept@ku.edu for more information. FY 2023 (January 1, 2022-June 30, 2023) Goal Plan Available – Begin setting goals in the Performance Management System The FY 2023 (January 1, 2022-June 30, 2023) Goal Plan is now available in the Performance Management System. You recently received a message from Mike Rounds, VP of Operations and Chief Human Resource Officer, and Nick Stevens, Chief Data Officer about the change in the staff evaluation period associated with performance reviews to better align with the fiscal year and Jayhawks Rising Strategic Plan. You and your employees can begin to add goals to the FY 2023 (January 1, 2022-June 30, 2023) Goal Plan. While both you and the employee can establish goals within the system, ultimately goal setting and expectation-setting is your responsibility as the supervisor. Staff and supervisors of staff now both have the ability to add goals to the FY 2023 (January 1, 2022-June 30, 2023) goal plan. The goal plan can be accessed by logging into mytalent.ku.edu. At least one goal must be established during the FY 2023 (January 1, 2022-June 30, 2023) evaluation period. A best practice is 3-5 goals. It is advised that goals are established as early in the 2021 review period as possible. Human Resource Management has created a video on Best Practices in Goal Setting. Step-by-step instructions on how to establish goals as an employee can be found here: Step-by-Step Instructions - Goals - Employee Step-by-step instruction on how to establish goals as supervisor can be found here: Step-by-Step Instructions - Goals - Supervisor. Additional training for the Performance Management System, to include desk side coaching can be requested by emailing hrdept@ku.edu for more information. Thank you for supporting the professional development of your staff by engaging actively in the Performance Management system. New Staff in Employee Relations We are excited to welcome Kendal Paley to KU HRM Employee Relations as an Employee Relations Specialist Sr. Kendal comes to KU with over ten years of both human resources and customer service experience with Whole Foods Market and the American Heart Association, out of Boulder, Colorado. Kendal is a great addition to the ER team, as she has robust experience with employee support, counseling, goal setting, and training, and will be a nice new resource for KU employees and supervisors. Kendal’s focus outside of the bulk of ER-work on performance management and progressive discipline support will be providing proactive training and communications on employee relations topics. Her emphasis will be on content related to best practices and tools for new supervisors and new employees. Kendal will be learning through observation and be joining her ER colleagues in meetings and emails in these first months. As always, with any employee relations issue, please inquire to Employee Relations team by emailing hrdept@ku.edu or calling 785-864-4946. Thanks for welcoming Kendal to the KU and the HRM team. Interview Question Generator Is your department searching for new, qualified, employees to join your team? KU Staff and Faculty can utilize the Interview Question Generator to create a PDF or print out of interview questions based on various categories/core competencies such as Adaptability, Collaboration, Diversity & Inclusion, and Leadership. Inclement Weather Weather essential and inclement weather compensation are only applicable to positions that are required to work on campus. Employees who are working at a campus worksite may be designated to work remotely during inclement weather based on supervisor or departmental needs. If you are currently working under a remote work arrangement and inclement weather is designated, you will be required to continue to work remotely. For more information, please review the Human Resource Management Frequently Asked Questions regarding this topic: Inclement Weather FAQ website Nominate Exceptional Staff for Employee of the Month! Thank you to all who took the time to nominate individuals for Employees of the Month in 2021, and we encourage others to follow their example and nominate an exceptional staff member by completing the Employee of the Month Nomination Form. Winners receive a $750 award, a surprise visit from a member of the Provost’s Office, and they become a candidate for the 2022 Employee of the Year Award. Nominations need not come from an individual’s supervisor, anyone can nominate staff whom they feel go out-of-their way to help others or exceed the normal requirements of their jobs. This program is open to all regular staff with half-time or greater appointment, with a year of service at the time of nomination. Employees of most affiliated corporations are also eligible for this program. October – December 2021 Winners: Julie McClenahan, October Jim Gergen, October Sara Chavez, November Ben Brown, November Randy Baker, December Tamarah Dixon, Decembe Employee Tuition Assistance KU provides eligible employees with assistance to cover tuition for one class (up to 5 hours) per semester. To access the Online Tuition Assistance Application and for information about the program, please visit the Human Resource Tuition Assistance for Employees webpage. Summer 2022 Semester: The application will be made available March 1, 2022, and the deadline is April 8, 2022 Please contact hrdept@ku.edu or call 785-864-4946 with any questions about the program or to schedule a program presentation for your department. LinkedIn Learning Offerings Learning and Development continues to provide access to LinkedIn Learning, an online library that teaches the latest software, creative, leadership, and business skills through high-quality instructional videos. Free access to the library’s 7,000+ courses is available to KU staff and faculty. Learn at your own pace from your computer, watch on your own schedule, and get personalized course recommendations based on your interests, job title, skills, and goals. The following selection of courses are available on demand: Successful Goal Setting (#11611) (25 minutes) Managing Up as an Employee (#30413) (50 minutes) Leveraging Virtual and Hybrid Teams for Improved Effectiveness (#29648) (30 minutes) Professional Development Fund Applications are being accepted for the Professional Development Pepsi Fund. This fund allows for a staff member to apply for up to $500 to help cover cost associated with attending a seminar or conference, funding for special projects, or online certifications. This fund helps give staff members the opportunity to further their knowledge and experience while creating new networking opportunities. For more information or to apply please go here. You can also email the Professional Development Chair, Kim Spencer, at staffsenate@ku.edu or kimspencer@ku.edu. State Employee Health Plan (SEHP) – Waiting period eliminated Prepaid Benefits for Academic Staff, HSA, FSA, Healthquest and more The State Employee Health Plan (SEHP) eliminated the waiting period for Health, Dental and Vision benefits for employees hired on or after January 3, 2022. SEHP benefits will now be effective as of the date of hire. It is important that all new employees enroll for coverage as soon as possible after hire to ensure timely provision of insurance cards and payroll deductions. Please refer to the 2022 SEHP Benefits Booklet for detailed information about plan design, premiums (page 38), and updates. Paycheck Deductions SEHP elections made during Open Enrollment became effective January 1, 2022. We encourage you to review the January 7, 2022, paycheck that will reflect the first premiums and contributions deducted for your calendar year 2022 SEHP elections. To view your paycheck, please log into hr.ku.edu, click on KU Payroll Dashboard, then paychecks. The SEHP allows HealthQuest credits to be earned through 12/31 and those credits will impact the premium discount for the following CY. If you earned credits to qualify for the HealthQuest premium discount, but those credits were awarded late, they might not be reflected on the first 2022 check. The SEHP will process adjustments to reflect the correct premiums in future checks. Click on this worksheet to find the semi-monthly premium rates for both no-discount and the full $20 semi-monthly HealthQuest premium discount. For employees who have spouses covered under the SEHP medical plan, both the employee and the covered spouse must have earned enough credits to qualify for the full $20 semi-monthly discount. If only one earned enough credits, then a $10 semi-monthly discount would have been earned. If you have questions about the HealthQuest premium discount, please contact the SEHP at SEHPHealthQuest@ks.gov. If your benefit deductions appear incorrect, please contact the Benefits Office immediately at benefits@ku.edu and be prepared to provide a copy of your Open Enrollment confirmation printout. Twelve-month staff will have deductions from 24 checks (the first two checks each month). When the month has a third paycheck no deduction will be taken. Prepaid Summer Benefits for Eligible Faculty and Staff Employees with prepaid summer benefit coverage will prepay summer health insurance, optional group life insurance and/or The Hartford voluntary insurance premiums during the designated spring semester payroll periods. If you will not be returning to KU in the subsequent fall semester, the prepaid summer deductions will be refunded. Academic year faculty and staff with positions designated as less than twelve-month will have Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) and/or Health Savings Accounts (HSA) deductions taken from 18 checks (the first two checks of the months of January through May and September through December). These deductions will not be taken from any other paychecks received during the year. An email will be sent to academic year faculty and staff in the Spring about the prepaid deduction schedule. Health Savings Account (Employee & Employer contributions) Met Life will be the new provider of Health Savings and Health Reimbursement accounts for 2022. New cards should be sent closer to 01/01/2022. The Employer HSA and HRA contributions will be deposited in four quarterly installments for active employees. The employer contribution will be based on your enrollment on the 1st day of each quarter. The first HSA employee contribution will be taken from the January 7, 2022, paycheck. The employer contributions will be made on this paycheck schedule: 1st quarter January 7, 2022 2nd quarter April 1, 2022 3rd quarter July 8, 2022 4th quarter October 14, 2022 Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) FSAs for calendar year 2022 became effective January 1, 2022. The first 2022 deduction for health and/or dependent care FSAs will be taken from the January 7, 2022, paycheck. NueSynergy will send FSA accounts a new debit card if the current card is close to expiration. Additionally, you can choose other claim submission methods. Due to the current Covid-19 pandemic, the IRS has released carryover allowances for 2021 for Health FSA, Limited Purpose FSA and Day Care FSA. This Carryover Amendment allows all unused funds remaining in the account at the end of the 2021 plan year to carryover in full to the 2022 plan year. This amendment is temporary and only affects the 2021 PY. For more info, watch the FSA overview video, visit the NueSynergy website or contact 1-855-750-9440 or CustomerService@nuesynergy.com HealthQuest Rewards – Plan Year 2022 HealthQuest is a wellness rewards program offered by the SEHP. For more information, visit the HealthQuest webpage. 2022 HealthQuest Program - Employees and spouses enrolled in the medical portion of the SEHP have an opportunity to earn credits by participating in HealthQuest wellness activities. Those who complete a required health assessment questionnaire worth 10 credits and earn the additional 30 credits from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022, for a total of 40 credits, will receive the $480 annual discount on the medical plan premium for Plan Year 2023. If only one of the covered individuals completes the requirements, the premium incentive discount will be $240. HSA or HRA participants (Plans C, N, and J) can earn additional employer contributions to the employee’s HSA/HRA (up to $500 each per employee and covered spouse). Biometric Screening - Biometric screening events are being scheduled statewide and scheduling will begin 01/01/2022 using the HealthQuest portal. Directions to schedule an appointment can be found here. 2022 Biometric Screening appointments should be updated in January 2022. Biometric screening dates will be available on the Lawrence campus, from January through October 2022. Screenings begin at 8 am the Kansas Union. Notices of which rooms the screening will be held in will be posted on all entrances to the KU Memorial Union. 2022 Onsite Biometric Screening Date(s) Monday, January 31, 2022 Monday, September 12, 2022 Tuesday, February 8, 2022 Tuesday, September 13, 2022 Tuesday, March 29, 2022 Monday, October 3, 2022 Wednesday, April 6, 2022 Wednesday, October 5, 2022 Monday, May 2, 2022 Friday, October 7, 2022 Wednesday, May 4, 2022 Tuesday, October 25, 2022 Monday, August 22, 2022 Friday, October 28, 2022 Tuesday, August 30, 2022 Avesis is the new vision vendor for PY 22. New cards will be sent to all that have enrolled in vision coverage. Avesis is working to build its provider network in the area, and you can nominate a vendor to be included. 403(b) and 457 Voluntary Retirement Plans The University of Kansas offers two voluntary retirement savings plans that provide opportunities to make contributions on a before or after-tax basis. While the University does not make contributions to either plan, this helps employees supplement their retirement income. KPERS 457 deferred compensation plan (all employees may elect to participate) Kansas Board of Regents 403(b) voluntary retirement plan (for benefits-eligible employees only) For more information, please see Voluntary Retirement Plans, or email benefits@ku.edu Faculty and Staff Wellness January-Where are you going? Goal Setting for Personal and Professional Success You are invited to a Zoom webinar at noon on Wednesday, January 19, presented by ComPsych trainers with the State of Kansas Employee Assistance Program. Goal setting gives you long-term vision and short-term motivation. The process of setting goals allows you to choose where you want to go in your personal life as well as your professional career. A life without goals is like a road trip without a map. By knowing exactly what you want to achieve, you are less likely to get lost, and you will be happier and less frustrated along the way. Registration is required. Participants can earn one HealthQuest credit. Hosted by the KU Faculty/Staff Wellness Committee. February-Stauffer-Flint Hall You are invited to a Move-N-Learn featuring Stauffer-Flint Hall on Wednesday, February 2, from 12:10pm-12:50pm. Tour the student-run media organizations, including the University Daily Kansan, KUJH-TV, Media Crossroads and the Agency. Plus, a look at the student advising and the career services offices. Registration is required with a limit of 25 people. Participants can earn one HealthQuest credit. Hosted by the KU Faculty/Staff Wellness Committee. March-KU School of Pharmacy You are invited to a Move-N-Learn featuring KU School of Pharmacy on Wednesday, March 2, from 12:10pm-12:50pm. Tour The KU School of Pharmacy building from then and now. Registration is required with a limit of 35 people. Participants can earn one HealthQuest credit. Hosted by the KU Faculty/Staff Wellness Committee. Watkins Health Services COVID-19 Testing & Booster Shots Watkins Health Services provides COVID-19 testing and vaccine, including booster shots, to members of the KU community by appointment. Faculty and staff can schedule an appointment by calling the Immediate Care Clinic at 785-864-9565. Booster shots are available to those who completed their initial Pfizer or Moderna series by receiving their second dose at least six months ago, or their initial one-dose Johnson & Johnson shot at least two months ago. As guidelines are constantly evolving, it is recommended to call Watkins or visit our website for the most up to date information. Need Help? Ask Us! Submit an Inquiry Quick Links Apply For A Job Benefits Health Insurance Hiring Process Holidays HR/Pay Login New Employee Packet Search Committee Login Tuition Assistance Vacation Leave Search for HRM Policies Search for Policies and Forms Visit the Policy Office for more information. HRM Calendars HR Pay Donate to Staff Emergency Assistance Fund KU Today 2022 Plan Rates & Comparison Chart Contact Human Resource Management hrdept@ku.edu 785-864-4946 Department of Human Resource Management University of Kansas Carruth O'Leary Hall, Room 103 1246 West Campus Road Lawrence, KS 66045-7521 HR Intranet Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login