Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Benefits Discover Your Benefits Retirement Savings and Planning Retirement Savings and Planning Over 60% of employees say their employer retirement plan is their primary means of saving for retirement. Columbia University provides you with the opportunity to save for the future through a retirement savings program that includes 1) Voluntary Retirement Savings Plan (VRSP); and 2) University Retirement Plan. Expand all Collapse all Make the Most of Your Retirement Benefits Here's How 1. Contribute to the VRSP via payroll deductions. If you’re not contributing, log in to CUBES, choose a contribution amount and make pre-tax and/or Roth elections. If you’re already contributing, look at your payroll statement to see how much you’re saving and think about increasing your contributions. 2. Model your plan contributions. Use the retirement calculator in CUBES to see how different election percentages affect your paycheck contributions. Know your limits! The IRS limits how much you are able to contribute each year. It is your responsibility to ensure your annual contributions across all pre-tax and after-tax retirement plans are under the limit See Advice from Pros To learn more about the retirement benefits the University provides, and the resources that can help you develop a sound savings strategy, visit the Retirement Savings & Financial Planning page. One-on-one Retirement Planning Sessions – Set up a free meeting with a TIAA and/or Vanguard representative. Spouse or partners are welcome to attend. Learn more and sign up for a one-on-one session now. Retirement Planning Workshops – Attend a group workshopconducted by an independent certified financial planner. Plan. Model. Learn Check out Vanguard’s contribution maximizer or learn the power of compounding. Use TIAA’s Retirement Profile to create a snapshot of what retirement might look like. To learn more about your income options as you approach retirement, try the Retirement Income Planner. Discover Your Benefits Virtual Visits Don't Go It Alone Save Money Voluntary Benefits Beat Fall Stress Total Well-being Travel with Help from Your Benefits Mental Health & Your Benefits Mail-Order Prescription Drug Benefits Sleep and How To Improve It Self-care: Take Care of Yourself Retirement Savings and Planning Resources for Caregivers Preventive Care Services Employee Assistance Program Discounts: Healthcare & Entertainment Sunscreen, Skin Cancer and Staying Cool Questions? Ask HR can help you. Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close