Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Human Resources Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Benefits Learning & Development Resources Workplace Essentials Welcome Careers Contact Benefits Home CUBES log in Open Enrollment Health & Welfare Tuition Programs Retirement & Financial Planning Voluntary Benefits Well-being FAQs - Benefits Vendor Contacts Virtual Visits Retiree Benefits What Is My Employment Group? Discover Your Benefits Making Changes to Your Benefits Glossary L & D Home LinkedIn Learning Resource Library Course Offerings Affiliate Courses & Registration Certificate Programs Consulting Services Team Building Activities Contact COVID-19 Holidays Calendar Forms & Documents Discounts & Perks Training & Courses HR Manager Toolkit FAQs Events News My.Columbia Go Paperless Home Collective Bargaining Agreements Embracing Our New Work Environment Employment Verification HR Policies Labor and Employee Relations Manage Life Changes Manage Personal Data Manage Salary and Pay Manage Work Time Performance Management Take a Leave of Absence Take Vacation and Time Off Workers' Compensation Workplace Conduct and Training Home Before You Arrive First 30 Days & Beyond ID Cards, Email & Systems Access Orientation & New Hire Info I-9 and E-Verify Benefits & Pay Your Performance Getting to Know Columbia Student Casual Employees Careers at Columbia Columbia Employment Information Center Contact • Ask HR Directory Frequently Asked Questions About Human Resources Human Resources You are here: Home Events Caring for Aging Relatives: Resources and Strategies Events Past Event Caring for Aging Relatives: Resources and Strategies Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo January 8, 2019 2:30 PM - 3:30 PM Studebaker building, 622 W. 132 St., New York, NY 10027 - Conference Room 469 According to data collected by the National Alliance for Caregiving and AARP, more than 34 million Americans provide unpaid care to an adult age 50 or older. The number of caregivers will continue to rise as the population ages. And most every one will experience related stress. Perhaps you already know what we’re talking about. If you’re a caregiver to an older parent or other relative, or will be at some point, join us for Caring for Aging Relatives: Resources and Strategies, an EAP seminar designed to help you minimize stress and conflict with your relatives, find and access the resources available to you, and answer your questions. After participating in this seminar, you will be better able to: Identify sources of assistance Screen, hire and supervise in-home help Cope with long-distance caregiving responsibilities To RSVP to the seminar, please email Lucia Leon: [email protected]. Can’t attend in person? Try these 3 Tips for Taking Care of an Older Relative: Ask other family members to help out and ease your load. Senior centers sometimes offer meals, recreation, exercise and transportation at no charge. If you’re feeling stressed, walk from the situation, even if it's just around the house Visit Columbia's Well-being website to learn about the EAP and other resources. And check out Humana’s Columbia-specific website for more, such as the Assessing an older adult's needs and Long-distance older adult care: making visits count. If prompted, log in (Username: Columbia; Password: eap). Upcoming Events Human Resources615 West 131 Street, Studebaker Building 4th Floor · New York , NY 10027 Follow Us Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close