Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About Contact the Hume Center Hume Tutor Spotlight Humans of Hume Building Wayfinding Writing Graduate Students Dissertation Boot Camp Annual Schedule Graduate Workshops Campus Resources Undergraduate Students Writing in the Major (WIM) WIM Resources for Students WIM Resources for Faculty Writing and Speaking Tips Videos for Frosh Application Support Speaking Courses Workshops Tutoring What to Expect FAQ for Students FAQ for Instructors See a Tutor Open TutorTrac See a Drop-in Tutor Digital Media Consulting Cancel Your Appointment Tutor Bios Appointment-Based Writing Tutor Bios Drop-In Writing Tutor Bios Oral Communication Tutor Bios Digital Media Consultants Policies Become a Tutor Become a Peer Writing Tutor Become a Graduate Writing Tutor Become an Oral Communication Tutor Workshops Events and Programs Thursday English Afternoons (T.E.A.) The Writers Studio Dissertation Boot Camp Honors Boot Camp Upcoming Hume Center Events Art@Hume Annual Events Admit Weekend Family Weekend National Day on Writing Programs On Hiatus Project WRITE Resources Student Resources Writing Resources Grammar Resources Research on Grammar The Top 20 Errors Research and Library Resources Conducting Archival Research Ideas from the Hoover Archives Primary Sources at Stanford Green Library Special Collections and University Archives Documentation and Citation Speaking Resources Faculty and Instructor Resources Tutoring FAQ Overview of Writing Resources WIM Faculty Resources Honors Writing Resources Digital Media Consultants Resources Speaking Resources Resources for Current Tutors Writing Speaking Digital Media Consulting Main content start The Hume Center for Writing and Speaking works with all Stanford students to help them develop rich and varied abilities in every aspect of writing and oral communication. In free individual sessions, Hume tutors help students get started on assignments; address and overcome writer's block or performance anxiety; learn strategies for revising, editing, and proofreading; and understand academic conventions in their fields. Learn more about our mission and history Hume Center Hours and Location Spring Quarter Tutoring Dates Sunday, April 3 – Wednesday, June 8, 2022. Drop-in writing tutoring ends a week earlier, on June 1. Tutoring Hours Monday - Wednesday 10 am–8:30 pm Thursday 10 am–7:30 pm Friday 10 am–4:30 pm Sunday 1 pm–7:30 pm Location We're located on the southeast edge of the main quad, across from the Bing wing of Green Library, in Building 250. Come see us! In-Person and Online Tutoring Writing and Speaking Tutoring Writing and oral communication tutoring. Appointments can be booked on TutorTrac. Learn more by following the link below. Writing and Speaking Tutoring Drop-in Writing Tutoring Drop-in writing tutors, also known as peer writing tutors, are undergraduates who have been trained to help students at any stage of the writing process and can work with any piece of writing. Drop-In Writing Tutoring What to Expect Find out what to expect when you see a tutor. What to Expect Meet Hume Tutor Mya Vinnett We regularly profile a Hume Tutor on our Facebook page and the Tutor Spotlight page on our Hume site. Check out the Facebook interview highlights here. Check out the full interview on our Tutor Spotlight page here. Meet Mya! Newsletter and Social Media Sign up for our newsletter to get updates on Hume Center events, workshops, and news! Get the Newsletter and follow us on social media: Facebook Instagram Twitter Welcome Videos and Writing Tips for Frosh and Transfers The Hume Center provides resources to undergraduate and graduate students for any kind of writing and speaking at every stage of the process. In addition to individualized tutoring, we offer a range of workshops, events, and other programming to support a lively campus culture of communication. Browse our videos with writing tips from the Hume Center Director as well as peer and graduate writing tutors! Check out all the videos here Hume Center Director Dr. Zandra L. Jordan discusses the basics of flow Oral Communication lecturer Dr. Tom Freeland encourages you to speak up and ask! More Video Tips on Writing and Speaking In Conversation with the Inaugural Poem Shaping the Future with Language: A Student Write-In/Speak-In Amanda Gorman's brilliant Inaugural Poem reminded us of the power language has to call us to reckon with our past, seek greater connection with each other, and build collective futures big enough for us all. In this virtual write-in/speak-in, students share their messages to Stanford and to the nation in conversation with the poem. Watch the recording to enjoy their original poetry, curated images and songs, and video performance. This event was co-sponsored by the Program in Writing and Rhetoric and the Hume Center for Writing and Speaking. Special thanks to President Marc Tessier-Lavigne for his inspiring remarks and to A-lan Holt, director of the Institute for Diversity in the Arts, for her dynamic poetry. Watch the Recording Interested in learning more? See Anuka Mohanpuhr’s write-up in the Stanford Daily. Listen to the Spotify playlist Stanford Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Web Login Address Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Building 250, Lasuen Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Map Contact Us Hume Center Facebook Hume Center Instagram Twitter Quick Links Make an Appointment Drop-In Writing Schedule Enroll here in the Hume Graduate and Postdoc Canvas Page Partner Programs About VPUE About the Program in Writing & Rhetoric Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top