Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Preparing Your Applications Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs From taking standardized tests to writing personal statements, applying to grad school can take quite a bit of time. The earlier you start, the easier the process will be and the more time you will have to tackle any possible hurdles that may appear along the way. The overall application for most graduate programs generally includes the following: Personal statements GPA and transcripts GRE scores (check if the general and/or subject exams are required) Letters of recommendation Biographical information from your essays or résumé/curriculum vitae that describes your academic, research, and professional experiences Writing sample (for some programs in the humanities and social sciences) Interview (for some graduate programs, often in the biosciences) In general, faculty and admissions committees use these components to determine if you are a suitable candidate for graduate school. In particular, they are trying to determine if you are a suitable candidate for their specific program. 1. GATHER INFORMATION ON EACH OF THE GRADUATE PROGRAM’S REQUIREMENTS Get online applications started and create online accounts. Find out about application fees and look into application fee waivers and their deadlines. Many universities give waivers for participants in diversity grad-prep programs. Here are Stanford’s application fee waiver info and grad application website. Check if there is a separate application for financial support. Mark deadlines and take them seriously! Find out about testing and course requirements for the programs. GRE Subject Test (recommended or required?) Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), Test of Spoken English (TSE) 2. TAKING THE GREs Check if graduate programs in your field typically require GRE exam scores for the general and subject tests. Many graduate programs require them, but these GRE requirements have recently been changing. Start preparing early (junior year of college). Take a practice exam to determine where you currently stand: free from www.kaplan.com or www.princetonreview.com, or buy the ETS Official Guide to the GRE General Test. Use online and university resources: two full computer-based GREs are in ETS’s own GRE Powerprep II with math review and info on analytical writing, available from www.gre.org and included with the above book. Take a course. But if you don’t, get both Kaplan/Princeton Review GRE prep books. Each comes with 3-4 practice computer GREs (get both books for the practice exams that come with each). Find out how far you are from the scores you need to be competitive. If you’re scoring pretty well, prioritize: Getting more familiar with the computer-based exam and its format Learning the way the different question types work and the types of wrong answer associated with certain question types (PR/Kaplan/Manhattan Prep/Magoosh books very helpful here!) Getting comfortable using educated guessing when stumped Increasing your focus and endurance If you’re further away from good scores, take more time to study and: Focus on replacing your current problem-solving approaches with PR/Kaplan methods. Try not to worry so much about how you’re doing while studying. Focus on observing your problem solving and improving it. Embrace your mistakes and errors — learn from them so you don’t make the same errors on the exam. While you’re studying, practice managing anxiety, tension, and attention for optimal performance. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305