Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Making Your Final Decision Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Joseph Brown, PhD Graduate Diversity Recruitment Officer recruit_hs@stanford.edu 650-724-7437 Steve Lee, PhD Assistant Dean of Diversity and Inclusion spl33@stanford.edu 650-497-0547 At the initial stages of your application process, it may seem difficult to plan ahead and consider how you will make your final decision of which graduate program to attend. But thinking about your decision-making process will help you throughout the whole application process, because you will be more committed and focused. This commitment and focus will help sharpen your questions and priorities, and faculty will often admire applicants who have clear directions in their lives. Go back to the self-assessment exercises and reflect on your answers and responses. Have any of your answers or decisions changed? Have you learned anything new about yourself and about grad school? Have there been any surprises? For those programs that have admitted you, prepare a table of characteristics, pros and cons, and your list of priorities. Determine what is important for you. If you get admitted, you may wish to consider deferring your start date for a year if you need to address other priorities in your life (e.g., taking care of family, marriage, children, other professional opportunities, etc.). If you did not get admitted into your desired or favorite programs, consider your options. Can you find further research, professional, or academic experiences that can help strengthen your application for next year? Can you obtain other training or education (certificate, master’s degree, post-baccalaureate program, internship, etc.)? (Those in bioscience have NIH PREP and Bridges to the Doctorate programs.) Consider your alternatives for other career directions. During your whole application process, you probably increased and deepened your network. Reach out to some of your new network to seek their counsel and advice. Reaching out to them can build your network and even prepare you for your next steps. Identify specific people whom you want to contact. Even if you are admitted into your favorite programs, it will help to go back and consider some of your basic questions. Attending grad school is often challenging for most students, and most graduate programs will be more challenging than undergraduate programs. This isn’t a light decision to make quickly, and strengthening your commitment will help equip you with persistence when you face obstacles. Be aware of confirmation biases, where we often focus on information that confirms our beliefs and ignore other information that might provide a more balanced view. What are some potential pitfalls as you consider starting grad school? How will you address them? Who might help you? What are some possible resources? What are some possible challenges for each graduate program that you’re considering? How will you address them? Who might help you? What are you looking forward to? Remembering the positive aspects often helps through depressing periods. As you complete your decision-making and application process for graduate school, remember to go back and personally thank your many friends, mentors, and contacts who helped you through the process. This important exercise will help to increase your gratitude and strengthen your network for future opportunities. These relationships will likely continue as you advance in your scholarly field, and so it’ll be important to maintain your network. We hope that these resources, suggestions, and tools are valuable as you plan your academic career and approach forks along your path. We realize that the path can often be unclear and challenging. However, these challenges can help you learn more about yourself, deepen relationships with helpful friends, and prepare you for your next steps. We hope that this guide has shed some light along your path and wish you the best for your future. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305