Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Fellowships and Funding Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) H&S graduate fellowships and awards are listed below. Only H&S students may apply through this portal. Students are also encouraged to find information about other sources of graduate funding, including: VPGE-Funded Doctoral Fellowships Other Stanford Fellowships Dissertation Fellowship in the Humanities (Mellon) Humanities dissertation fellowships support students in the final stages of their doctoral programs. The School of Humanities and Sciences Dean's Office and the Stanford Humanities Center coordinate applications for Mellon dissertation fellowships for doctoral students in the humanities. For more information, visit the Stanford Humanities Center. Humanities dissertation fellowships support students in the final stages of their doctoral programs. Apply Now Application Deadline: January 7, 2022 More Dwight D. Eisenhower/Clifford Roberts Fellowship The Dwight D. Eisenhower/Clifford Roberts Graduate Fellowship Program assists promising students pursuing research in fields such as history, government, economics, business administration, and international affairs. The Eisenhower Institute seeks to develop informed leadership in the conduct of U.S. national life by supporting young scholars interested in the role of government in a free society, citizen public service, public policy, and the role of the United States in world affairs. Stanford University is one of 11 universities participating in the Eisenhower/Roberts Fellowship Program. Each university may submit up to two candidates, both of whom will be eligible to receive an award of up to $10,0000, which typically supports work on the dissertation. For more information, contact Graduate and Undergraduate Studies. The Dwight D. Eisenhower/Clifford Roberts Graduate Fellowship Program assists promising students pursuing research in fields such as history, government, economics, business administration, and international affairs. Guidelines Apply Now Application Deadline: February 22, 2022 More Federal Work Study Advanced doctoral students in the humanities, arts, and social sciences may be eligible for part-time jobs supported by the Federal Work Study program. Limited work study funding is available for doctoral candidates in the humanities, arts, and social sciences who can demonstrate financial need. Only U.S. citizens and permanent residents are eligible. Applicants must have attained terminal graduation (TGR) status and have been admitted to candidacy with an approved dissertation proposal and an established reading committee by fall quarter. Other eligibility requirements for receiving federal funds may apply. For more information, contact Graduate and Undergraduate Studies. Advanced doctoral students in the humanities, arts, and social sciences may be eligible for part-time jobs supported by the Federal Work Study program. Guidelines Apply Now Application Deadline: April 12, 2022 More Graduate Research Opportunities (GRO) and Graduate Research Opportunities Fund for Research on Modern British History and Culture (GRO-MBHC) Funds New for 2022-23 academic year: GRO will be moving to an annual award cycle. Applications will be accepted in winter quarter of 2023. The School of Humanities and Sciences awards grants of up to $5,000 to doctoral students for research expenses directly related to their dissertations. Recipients may use GRO funding for research-related travel, purchasing data sets and special analytical software, using human subjects or surveys, and similar needs. There are two application submission deadlines, in fall and in spring. See the attached document for eligibility requirements and the application. For more information on eligible and ineligible expenses, see FAQs. If you have additional questions, contact Graduate and Undergraduate Studies. The School of Humanities and Sciences awards grants of up to $5,000 to doctoral students for research expenses directly related to their dissertations. Guidelines Apply Now Application Deadline: Winter: November 16, 2021; Spring: April 22, 2022 More Intensive Language Program The Intensive Language Program provides funding for intensive language training to first-year doctoral students in the humanities and arts in the summer following the first year of study. The goal of this program is to enable foreign language proficiency earlier in the program of study, improve progress toward successful and timely completion of milestones, and reduce time to degree. Funding may be used for travel to and from the program, program tuition or enrollment fees, and related program supplies such as software or books. See the program guidelines for more information. If you have additional questions, contact Graduate and Undergraduate Studies. The Intensive Language Program provides funding for intensive language training to first-year doctoral students in the humanities and arts in the summer following the first year of study. Guidelines Apply Now Application Deadline: April 8, 2022 More The Georges Lurcy Charitable and Educational Trust The Lurcy Trust offers a one-year fellowship for advanced graduate study and research in France. U.S. Citizens only. Applicants’ research should deal specifically with French topics in any discipline or time period and require work that can be pursued uniquely in France. A stipend of $25,300 (in 2018-19) will cover the cost of educational fees, necessary travel, and living expenses during one academic year in France. Applicants must be citizens or permanent residents of the United States enrolled at Stanford University or an educational institution in France during the tenure of the fellowship. Stanford University may submit one candidate. The Lurcy Trust offers a one-year fellowship for advanced graduate study and research in France. U.S. Citizens only. Guidelines Apply Now Application Deadline: January 31, 2022 More About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305