Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Guide on Getting Into Grad School Helpful information and exercises for prospective graduate students ScrollScroll to more content Graduate Degrees Awarded at Stanford 2018-19 409 MBA 1,978 MA/MS 270 JD, MD 770 PhD, DMA, JSD Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Joseph Brown, PhD Assistant Dean of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Education (IDE) and Graduate Recruitment recruit_hs@stanford.edu 650-724-7437 Steve Lee, PhD Assistant Dean of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity spl33@stanford.edu 650-497-0547 If you’re considering grad school for your future, you are probably asking yourself many questions: Photo by Richard Morgenstein Is grad school the best option for me now? What are the benefits and challenges? What’s the difference between undergrad and grad school? Should I seek a master’s or doctoral program? Which grad programs should I apply for? What’s involved in an application to grad school? What are admissions committees looking for? Who can help me? What resources are available? What are some alternatives to grad school? These are all important questions to consider, and they should be considered carefully. This guide is organized around the main aspects of the decision-making process and application, which can help address many of your questions. Download PDF Version of "Guide on Getting Into Grad School" Because these decisions and your application for graduate school are complex and time-consuming, this guide was prepared to provide critical information and advice. This guide also contains questions to ask yourself and exercises to help you prepare your application for graduate programs. Be as honest as possible with yourself, and talk about your answers with close friends and family. You may need to adjust the wording of your answers for your application, but it’s important to begin with an honest self-assessment as you prepare your application. Using this guide and working on these exercises can help you get started in the right direction. Additional resources and tools are incorporated within this guide. However, remember to also seek help from other people: faculty, advisors, grad students, postdocs, peers, and career counselors. This guide is meant to provide an overview and does not cover everything. Your specific situation can only be addressed by close friends and mentors who know you personally. As you address multiple decisions, this can be a stressful time period. But it may help to realize that you are not alone, and that many others have approached these decisions and have successfully embarked on new adventures. So, remember to find friends to encourage you in this process. We wish you the best in these new adventures. Undergraduate vs Graduate (PhD) Programs The experiences of an undergraduate and graduate student can appear deceptively similar. They are both at a university doing coursework and research. However, there are significant differences. Not understanding the depth of these differences can hinder your chances of being admitted and succeeding in grad school. Undergraduate Programs You are a student “at school X” • Focus on courses and grades • More objective evaluations of performance from exams and homework • Feedback is relatively frequent • Most activities and performance evaluations are individualistic You apply to a university or college • Your interests can be very broad • You apply to a discipline or major • Extracurricular activities are valued Graduate (PhD) Programs You are a student of “Dr. Z” (research advisor) • Focus on research • More subjective evaluations and longer periods without concrete feedback • Collaboration and independence are valued together, which will likely appear to be counter-intuitive— most activities and performance evaluations are individualistic • Relationship-driven You apply into a specific graduate program • Your interests need to be much more specific • You apply into a specific field within a discipline • Some programs require you to apply to work directly with a specific professor • Extracurricular activities are valued less, unless they demonstrate critical skills related to your field Master’s vs Doctoral Programs While a typical 4-year undergraduate program refers to pursuing a bachelor’s degree (often a BS or BA degree), a graduate program can refer to pursuing a master’s or doctoral degree. Master’s Programs (MS or MA) • Master’s programs usually provide much less financial support. • Master’s programs usually last about 2 years, but there are shorter and longer programs, with the range usually between 1 to 3 years. • All master’s programs require coursework, and only some require research that leads to a thesis (a write-up of your research). • Requirements for master’s programs are usually less than those for doctoral programs. Doctoral Programs (PhD) • Doctoral programs usually provide financial support. • Doctoral programs have a wide range of typical lengths, from 4 to 8 years. The length of the program is very specific to the field. • In some doctoral programs (e.g. some engineering programs), you earn a master’s degree before earning a PhD. But in many other programs, the master’s degree is not required before pursuing a PhD. • All doctoral programs require research that leads to a dissertation (longer than a master’s thesis, a write-up of multiple years of research). • For some doctoral programs, if you are not able to complete all of the requirements, you might be allowed to exit with a master’s degree. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305