Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs As you consider all possibilities, you might be thinking of not pursuing grad school directly after finishing your undergrad degree. Or you might be thinking of returning to school after a break to pursue a graduate program. There are several related paths: Apply for and participate in a post-baccalaureate program as a bridge between finishing your undergraduate degree and starting grad school (e.g., an NIH PREP program in the biosciences). Take a gap year (or more) to earn more income in the “real world,” to shift to a new research area, to take additional courses, to take care of personal or family needs, or for other reasons. Apply for and get admitted into a graduate program, and then defer your admission for one year. (Many, but not all, graduate programs will allow admitted students to defer their admission for one year. This is something to request only after you’ve been admitted). These are not uncommon paths, and so many students will be considering these possibilities. As you consider your options, it’ll be important to plan your time wisely and reflect on how graduate admissions committees and employers will perceive how you used your time. If the time between finishing your undergraduate degree and applying for graduate programs is long (i.e., several years or more), graduate admissions committees might question your commitment to their graduate program. However, you might have legitimate reasons that will be acceptable to the admissions committee. For example, you might have wanted to gain more research experience in a new direction by working as a research assistant, you might have had to work to earn more income to help support your family, or you might have needed to take a break to take care of dependents. As you consider your specific circumstances, it’s essential to consider how the admissions committees will perceive your decisions and for you to craft an acceptable explanation that relates to both your commitment and competence. To guide you in crafting your explanation, try consulting with the faculty who will write your recommendation letters. You can draft a description, and ask your faculty letter writers how they would respond. Your description should provide a story that explains the major decisions that you made and explains why their graduate program fits as the next step in your storyline. If your storyline does not appear to have any clear directions, or if it appears that you tried some alternatives that didn’t work out and grad school is a last resort, admissions committees will likely be skeptical of your commitment and focus. The important messages are provided here for your consideration: If you’re finishing your undergraduate degree now and planning to pursue a graduate degree after a break, wisely plan your break. Be deliberate and plan a timeline of activities, so that you don’t lose your focus. Carefully consider how you’ll explain your story in your application and anticipate how graduate admissions committees will perceive your commitment and preparation. Your explanation should address the major forks along your path and convince the admissions committee that you’ll remain committed and persist through the whole graduate program. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305