Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Administrative Leads About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Central Administration Janeen Giusti, Executive Assistant to the Dean Janeen leads the administrative team in the Office of the Dean for H&S and is the executive assistant to Dean Debra Satz. Janeen began her career at Stanford in 2006 in the H&S Dean's Office. In 2008, she moved to a role supporting the Stanford Arts Institute and helped support the opening of the Bing Concert Hall in January of 2013. She returned to H&S in November of 2013. Outside of work, Janeen enjoys running, reading, and watching sports. External Relations Neil Penick, Associate Dean for External Relations Neil Penick oversees the School of Humanities and Sciences development, donor relations, public relations, and alumni relations efforts. Neil started in the Stanford Fund in 2003 and then joined The Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies as the Senior Associate Director of Development in 2006. Facilities Julie L. Hardin, Executive Director of Facilities and Capital Planning Julie is the director of Facilities and Capital Planning. She is responsible for facilities planning; space management; health, safety, and security; and renovation and construction activities in the School of Humanities and Sciences. Julie leads a staff of six professionals and focuses on growing their talent and professional development. Julie's successes share a common theme: balancing stability with clarity and vision and developing productive partnerships through excellent communication with colleagues. These relationships both at Stanford and externally have contributed to a rewarding career of more than 20 years at the university and the successful completion of many noteworthy projects. During her personal time, Julie enjoys cooking, gardening, fly fishing, and spending time with her family and friends. Faculty Affairs Lisa Thomas, Assistant Dean for Faculty Affairs Faculty Affairs is responsible for faculty affairs and general support of the school's cluster deans. The group include manages all academic council faculty appointment and promotion processes, all teaching appointments, and academic council faculty sabbaticals and leaves. Staff associates to each dean maintain records of all senior associate dean decisions and provide support in faculty recruitment and retention, in addition to academic department oversight. Finance Jim Henry, Chief Financial Officer The Dean’s Office Finance team provides strategic decision support to H&S leadership through financial analysis and management, reporting, and strategic planning. The team supports departments and programs through the annual accounting cycle and also works closely with central university offices on financial matters. Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Susan Weersing, Associate Dean, Graduate and Undergraduate Studies In her role as associate dean, Susan oversees the Office of Graduate and Undergraduate Studies (GUS). The work of GUS is wide ranging, encompassing areas as diverse as initiation of new degree programs, curricular review and assessment, graduate aid and fellowships, student academic grievances and mediation, and graduate diversity and retention. Prior to stepping into her current position, Susan managed the Department of Sociology and the Program in Urban Studies at Stanford. She also worked extensively in the nonprofit world, providing and managing services that support individuals with developmental disabilities and their families. When not in meetings or dealing with a thorny issue, Susan is either walking, reading a new book, or trying to do both at the same time. Human Resources Sumitra Krishnan, Chief Human Resources Officer Sumitra manages the School of Humanities and Sciences human resources function. She leads a team of HR professionals and serves as a strategic advisor on all areas of HR. In her role, she helps define H&S HR initiatives by understanding the school's goals, issues, and needs. Prior to her current position, Sumitra was at the School of Medicine for over 10 years where her efforts focused on developing and implementing strategic initiatives around workforce planning, talent acquisition, process improvement, and faculty development programs. Her experience previous to Stanford also includes student services and operations management before dedicating her career to HR. Outside of work, Sumitra enjoys traveling, running and spending time with her family and friends. Information Technology Sean Brandt, Interim Chief Information Officer Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Ellie Fischbacher Maldonado, Chief Planning Officer Ellie is responsible for managing an effective planning process for H&S; maintaining information resources in support of the school’s research and educational mission and its administrative operations; enhancing research operations; and serving as the primary advocate for departments and programs in support of administrative processes and systems implementations. Learn more about Planning. Public Relations/Communications Joy Leighton, Senior Director of Public Relations Joy manages the communications team, which supports Dean Satz and school-wide priorities and initiatives. The communications team provides strategy and production support around all messaging as well as collaborates with campus partners to advance the school and university's mission. Joy also manages media requests and sets the strategy for the school's website. Research Administration Sonia Barragan, Executive Director of Research Administration Sonia provides guidance and expertise to solve complex problems in research administration throughout H&S. Sonia and her team are a key resource in proposal development, award management, research compliance, quarterly certification of expenditures, conflict of interest management, and policy interpretation. They collaborate with department research administrators to develop recommendations for system enhancements and process improvements that increase staff effectiveness and reduce administrative burden in the realm of research administration. Additionally, they represent the school on a number of university committees and serve as primary H&S contact with the Office of the Vice Provost and Dean of Research and the Office of Research Administration. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305