Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Photo by Richard Morgenstein Dean's Initiatives ScrollScroll to more content About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Under the leadership of Dean Debra Satz, the School of Humanities and Sciences has launched several initiatives and pilot projects. Assessing Our Departments Beginning in 2019-20, we will begin piloting external reviews with one department from each of our three academic clusters. The focus of these reviews will be to address the following questions: Where might we invest/disinvest programmatically and/or intellectually? What is the current state of teaching in the department and how might that improve? What opportunities exist to further diversify our faculty and graduate student populations? Improving Undergraduate Teaching We recently rolled out an H&S teaching initiative that requires all incoming assistant professors to attend the three-day Course Design Institute offered through VPTL. To further support junior faculty teaching, departments will assign a senior faculty mentor to provide expert guidance and observe classroom instruction. In addition to hopefully improving the quality of teaching throughout the school, this model also informs the assessment of the candidate’s teaching at reappointment and tenure. Exploring New Approaches to Diversifying Our Graduate Student Population For many years, the school has invested significant funds and has received meaningful support from the provost to launch programs designed to attract and support graduate students from diverse backgrounds. We are taking this year to conduct a review of our current array of programs, with the goal of enhancing our support of the most effective programs, sunsetting less impactful ones, and identifying promising new programs to pilot. We are, of course, partnering closely with VPGE in this effort. New Directions Learning Grant Initiated in fall 2018, the H&S New Directions Learning Grant (NDLG) is designed to grant one course of teaching relief for one quarter to full professors in the School of Humanities and Sciences who wish to pursue new interests related to scholarly work in their research or teaching portfolios. On average, three awards will be given in each quarter. Grantees use the release time to enroll in courses at Stanford related to their interests. Faculty are expected to participate as fully as possible in class activities and assignments. Courses may be at the graduate or undergraduate level and may span departments. In order to enroll, the grantee must secure agreement from the instructor. Building Community Among H&S Faculty One clear theme that emerged from the dean search process is a desire among many of our faculty to engage more with colleagues in other departments and disciplines. To help strengthen the H&S intellectual community, we have launched a series of small forums that convene groups of faculty to discuss specific issues; a short list of topics includes freedom of speech, conflict of interest, open science, and reproducibility/replication of research. The H&S deans also host informal happy hours to facilitate unstructured community building. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305