Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Photo by Richard Morgenstein H&S Dean ScrollScroll to more content About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Debra Satz is the Vernon R. & Lysbeth Warren Anderson Dean of the School of Humanities and Sciences. As a political philosopher, Satz addresses some of the most pressing questions and fundamental controversies about freedom, equality, and fairness. During her three decades at Stanford, that enduring commitment to ethical inquiry and rigorous thought has shaped—and continues to inform—everything from her research and teaching to her leadership roles and daily life. Satz’s research focuses on a wide variety of issues, including the ethical limits of markets, the nature of and justifications for equality, and the distribution of educational opportunity. She is the author of several books, including Why Some Things Should Not Be For Sale: The Moral Limits of Markets (2010) and Economic Analysis, Moral Philosophy and Public Policy (with Dan Hausman and Michael McPherson) (2017), as well as numerous articles, essays, and reviews. She is the current (and first woman) editor of the journal Philosophy and Public Affairs and is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Satz’s dedication to promoting the lifelong value of engaging with the humanities and liberal arts extends into her leadership roles. As senior associate dean for the humanities and arts from 2010 to 2017, she helped lead a number of initiatives to ensure that all undergraduates have a meaningful engagement with the humanities and to offer doctoral students better resources for exploring their futures. The Summer Humanities Institute, Humanities Core, and City College of New York-Stanford Teaching Exchange are three of the many ongoing initiatives that began under her leadership. As a devoted teacher, Satz has always been deeply invested in the moral, civic, and intellectual development of undergraduate and graduate students. She is a recipient of the Walter J. Gores Award for Excellence in Teaching, Stanford’s highest teaching award. From 2013 to 2018, she was also the J. Frederick and Elisabeth Brewer Weintz University Fellow in Undergraduate Education, through the Bass University Fellows Program. Satz served as chair of the Stanford Faculty Senate in 2016-17 and from 2008 to 2015 was the faculty director of the McCoy Family Center for Ethics in Society. Along with professor of political science Rob Reich, she co-founded the Hope House Scholars program, in which Stanford faculty and students teach college-level humanities courses at a residential drug and alcohol treatment facility for women. A New York City native and first-generation college student, Satz earned a bachelor of arts degree in philosophy from City College of New York followed by a doctorate in philosophy from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Satz joined Stanford in 1988 as an assistant professor of philosophy after beginning her teaching career as a lecturer at Harvard University and an assistant professor at Swarthmore College. She became the Marta Sutton Weeks Professor of Ethics in Society, professor of philosophy and professor, by courtesy, of political science in 2007. Satz is committed to promoting and deepening foundational research across the school. She looks forward to leveraging the strengths of H&S faculty, students, and staff to help the school confront the challenges—and seize the opportunities—of our complex and rapidly changing world. The Vernon R. and Lysbeth Warren Anderson Dean in the School of Humanities and Sciences was established in June 1997 by Stanford alumni Vernon R., B.S. ’53, M.B.A. ’57 and Lysbeth Warren Anderson, ’54. The Andersons felt strongly that the dean of humanities and sciences should have the means to support innovation and strategic planning at the school. Reflecting this interest, the full payout of the deanship fund is available to the dean as a discretionary fund to support new ventures and special initiatives. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305