Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Pulitzer Prize About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment This annual award is the nation’s highest honor in newspaper and online journalism, literature, and musical composition. Established in 1904, the prize is administered by the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism. 2013 Fiction. Adam Johnson, Associate Professor of English, for The Orphan Master’s Son. 2000 History. David M. Kennedy, Donald J. McLachlan Professor Emeritus of History, for Freedom From Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929–1945. 1997 History. Jack Rakove, William Robertson Coe Professor of History and American Studies, for Original Meanings: Politics and Ideas in the Making of the Constitution. 1979  History. Don E. Fehrenbacher, William Robertson Coe Professor of History and American Studies, for The Dred Scott Case: Its Significance in American Law and Politics. *1976 National Reporting. James Risser, Professor of Communication (1985 to 2000), was a reporter at the Des Moines Register recognized “for disclosing large-scale corruption in the American grain exporting trade.” In 1979, Risser won a second Pulitzer (National Reporting), for a series on damage by farming to the environment. 1972  History. Carl N. Degler, Margaret Byrne Professor Emeritus of American History, for Neither Black nor White: Slavery and Race Relations in Brazil and the United States. 1972 Fiction. Wallace Stegner, Jackson Eli Reynolds Professor of the Humanities, for Angle of Repose. 1958 International Reporting. Elie Abel, Harry and Norman Chandler Professor of Communication, was part of a team at The New York Times “cited for its distinguished coverage of foreign news, which was characterized by admirable initiative, continuity and high quality during the year.” Abel covered the 1957 Hungarian uprising. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305