Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Senior Associate Deans About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment The School of H&S has five senior associate deans. Four are responsible for overseeing the academic direction of departments and programs within the humanities, natural sciences, social sciences, and education and are appointed for three years and report to the dean of H&S. The senior associate dean for finance and administration is a staff position and reports to the dean of H&S. Photo by Linda Cicero Social Sciences Ran Abramitzky Ran Abramitzky, professor of economics, is the senior associate dean for the social sciences. Abramitzky’s research is in economic history and applied microeconomics, with a focus on immigration and income inequality. He joined the Stanford faculty in 2005 and has served as the vice chair of the economics department since 2014. He is a senior fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research as well as a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and former co-editor of the journal Explorations in Economic History. He has received the economics department’s and the Dean’s Awards for Distinguished Teaching. Photo by Connor Crutcher HUMANITIES AND ARTS Gabriella Safran Gabriella Safran, the Eva Chernov Lokey Professor of Jewish Studies, is the senior associate dean for the humanities and arts. Safran joined the Stanford faculty in 1998 and served as the first chair of the Division of Literatures, Cultures, and Languages. Safran also serves as president of the American Association of Teachers of Slavic and East European Languages. She teaches and writes on Russian literature, Yiddish literature, and folklore. Photo by Ajay Fay NATURAL SCIENCES Peter Michelson Peter Michelson, the Luke Blossom Professor in the School of Humanities and Sciences, is the senior associate dean for the natural sciences. Michelson’s research is currently focused in the field of high energy astrophysics. He leads the international team that built and now operates the Large Area Telescope on the Fermi Gamma Ray Space Telescope, which is used to study some of the universe’s most extreme phenomena, including black holes, gamma-ray bursts, and pulsars. Michelson received his master’s degree and doctorate in physics from Stanford and has been a professor in the Department of Physics since 1985. Photo by Linda Cicero EDUCATIONAL INITIATIVES Mary Beth Mudgett Mary Beth Mudgett, the Stanford Friends University Fellow in Undergraduate Education, is the senior associate dean for educational initiatives. She received her doctorate in biochemistry at University of California, Los Angeles and has been a professor in Stanford's Department of Biology since 2002. Her research group studies plant-pathogen interactions, focusing on how pathogens subvert the plant immune system resulting in disease outbreaks. Mudgett is passionate about teaching. She has launched new initiatives within biology to embrace different learning styles and enhance the student experience in the classroom. She also partners with faculty and staff across campus to increase student diversity within the natural sciences. FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION Steve Olson Steve Olson, senior associate dean for finance and administration, oversees a range of core operational functions within the Dean's Office, including finance, human resources, IT, facilities, sponsored research administration, and institutional research and planning. He works in partnership with the school's many department and program administrative leaders in support of their academic missions, and he represents the School of Humanities and Sciences on a number of university committees. Prior to coming to H&S, Steve served in a similar role at the Graduate School of Education and before that as the university's associate director of budget policy and planning in the Office of the President and Provost. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305