Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates The J. E. Wallace Sterling Awardees Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Sterling Award for Undergraduates Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates The J. E. Wallace Sterling Awardees Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) The J.E. Wallace Sterling Award for Scholastic Achievement Established in 2006, this is one of Stanford's most selective recognitions of a student's overall academic performance. The top 25 graduating seniors in the School of Humanities and Sciences are honored for their efforts and academic achievements throughout their undergraduate education. The award includes: Recognition of the secondary school teacher whom the awardee names as the most influential instructor of their scholastic career. Recognition of the student’s most influential Stanford academic advisor, or other Stanford faculty or staff member. A luncheon celebrating the reception of this award with other award recipients. The award is named after President Sterling, who served as Stanford’s president from 1949 to 1968, and as chancellor until 1985. During his tenure, Stanford reached national prominence through his efforts to hire top scholars and create “steeples of excellence” that also attracted the best students in the country. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305