Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Photo by Angela Drury Ways to Give ScrollScroll to more content Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Neil Penick Associate Dean for External Relations npenick@stanford.edu 650-723-8681 All contributions to H&S create a lasting difference for faculty and students who are pursuing learning and research at the school. Whether donors wish to make an annual or expendable gift with immediate impact, create an endowment to provide a stable source of funding over time, or include Stanford in their estate plans, we welcome the opportunity to have a conversation about ways to support. Annual Giving The H&S Fund for Graduate Education At Stanford, graduate students play an essential role in university life. They push disciplines in new directions, teach undergraduates, and help retain faculty by providing research support. A critical mass of graduate students is integral to creating and sustaining a stimulating academic environment. The H&S Fund for Graduate Education provides support for these students across the school. Learn more about the H&S Fund for Graduate Education. The H&S Dean’s Circle Fund The H&S Dean’s Circle Fund recognizes unrestricted gifts of $10,000 or more in support of the dean’s highest priorities. These gifts provide the dean with the resources to meet the school’s most urgent needs and the flexibility to respond to favorable opportunities. Department and Program Gifts Annual gifts may also be directed to a specific department or program. Gifts of any size support their students, faculty, programming, and curriculum development. Capital Gifts Gifts for capital projects support the design, construction, start-up, renovation, and maintenance costs associated with particular buildings. Planned Giving Through careful planning, a donor may be able to make a sizable contribution to H&S and Stanford. This can take the form of a bequest or living trust; by designating Stanford the beneficiary of a life insurance policy, IRA, or other retirement plan; or by means of a “life income gift” that can provide the donor with current tax savings as well as an income for life. Gift Processing Stanford University School of Humanities and Sciences Office of External Relations Frances C. Arrillaga Alumni Center 326 Galvez St. Stanford, CA 94305-5018 Fax 650-725-4365 Email us. About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305