Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving To the H&S Community: Minneapolis, the U.S., and Our Community About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment May 31, 2020 Dear Stanford undergraduates, COVID-19 has exacerbated and made visible another deadly disease that has plagued the United States for centuries: racism. Black and brown people have been dying in disproportionate numbers during the pandemic. And now we are especially anguished by the senseless death of George Floyd as well as the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. This is a difficult time for many but especially for our students of African American and African descent. I understand the fear, anger, exhaustion, and sadness that so many of you feel right now. At this moment in time, it is also important that we reaffirm our core values and principles. In our community, there is no place for racism or for denying the equal worth of people regardless of their race, gender identity, religion, national origin, or socio-economic background. Across all of our differences, we are a common humanity, with every person entitled to equal dignity. Our society and world have not yet achieved this fundamental principle of equality. “The arc of the moral universe,” celebrated by Martin Luther King Jr. as moving us toward justice, has been very long. Too long. Here at Stanford, we must continually strive to live by the principle of equality and better realize it in our daily exchanges with each other and in our community. We may have different views about how to accomplish this, but we cannot deny this principle—it is foundational to our educational mission. Furthermore, Stanford has a role and a responsibility to create new knowledge and understanding that contributes to the improvement of our society and world—to bend the arc. And even in these dark times, when we are filled with despair, hope can be sustained by drawing on great moments and movements in the history of our country: Rosa Parks’ resounding refusal in 1955, the March on Washington in 1963, and the Freedom Rides involving brave students of all races pressing for greater racial equality—these movements have helped bend the arc of the moral universe toward greater justice and equality. But I know that the path is challenging and the events of the last few weeks, as well as over many years, have been very hard. Please remember that there is a broad network of support services available in our community. Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is available regardless of location. Students can call CAPS 24/7 at 650-723-3785. The Bridge Peer Counseling Center offers counseling by trained students 24/7 at 650-723-3392. The Graduate Life Office (GLO) is available during office hours at 650-736-7078 or 24/7 at 650-723-8222, pager ID number 25085. The Residence Deans continue to be available to undergraduates. If you are in a crisis and need immediate assistance, a Dean On Call (DOC) is available 24/7 at 650-504-8022. The Office for Religious Life offers spiritual guidance for students at 650-723-1762. If you are aware of someone in distress, contact CAPS or the Office of the Dean of Students. In addition, here are some resources for those who want to further understand some of the dimensions of racial injustice toward African Americans in the United States. This is a highly selective list and some of the authors provide different angles on the issues. The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness by Michelle Alexander Just Mercy by Bryan Stevenson The Fire Next Time by James Baldwin When Affirmative Action Was White: An Untold History of Racial Inequality in Twentieth-Century America by Ira Katznelson Biased: Understanding the Hidden Prejudice that Shapes What We See, Think and Do by Jennifer Eberhardt The Color of Law: A Forgotten History of How Our Government Segregated America by Richard Rothstein Locking Up Our Own: Crime and Punishment in Black America by James Foreman The Red Record by Ida B. Wells The Souls of Black Folk by W. E. B. Du Bois In the coming weeks, we will look for ways that our departments and programs can help our community process what has happened. I am also hopeful that our new curriculum on citizenship will provide a shared basis to discuss this and other issues that confront our society and world. For now, as dean of H&S, I write to say, in this moment of concern and anguish, that the school is an ally in the battle for racial equality and that we stand with all of you who are grieving, saddened, and affected by these unjust and horrific incidents. Best, Debra Satz Vernon R. and Lysbeth Warren Anderson Dean of the School of Humanities and Sciences Marta Sutton Weeks Professor of Ethics in Society About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305