Skip to main content Latest information about COVID-19 Information for H&S faculty and staff Dismiss alert Search Search Toggle main menu visibility Mobile site main navigation Prospective Students Guide on Getting Into Grad School A Message from Dean Debra Satz Self-assessment and Selecting Grad Programs Suggested Graduate School Prep Timeline Advice on Non-Traditional Paths Between Undergrad Degrees and Grad Programs Funding Graduate Studies Preparing Your Applications Writing Your Personal Statements Requesting Recommendation Letters Interviewing and Talking with Prospective Faculty How Your Application Is Reviewed Making Your Final Decision Additional Resources H&S Summer Research Programs Current Students Diversity Resources and Programs Fellowships and Funding Sterling Award for Undergraduates Helpful Stanford Resources for Students and Postdocs WINGS (Wellness Information Network for Graduate Students) Academics and Research Centers, Institutes, and Affiliates Discover Your Path: The Humanities and Arts at Stanford Careers of Humanities Alumni News COVID-19: H&S faculty in the news Events About H&S Dean Dean's Message Past Dean's Messages To the H&S Community Dean's Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion H&S Council Senior Associate Deans Administrative Leads Staff National and International Awards American Academy of Arts and Sciences MacArthur Fellowship National Academy of Sciences National Humanities Medal National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Pulitzer Prize H&S Dean's Teaching Awards H&S History H&S Past Deans Stanford Land Acknowledgment Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Desktop site main navigation Prospective Students Current Students Academics and Research News Events About Giving Misha Bruk Transform Science Education and Research ScrollScroll to more content Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving to Graduate Education Support World-Class Faculty Strengthen Graduate Scholarship Enhance the Arts Globalize the Curriculum Transform Science Education and Research Expand Our Understanding of the Universe Lisa Rying Senior Associate Director of Development for Natural Sciences lrying@stanford.edu 650-723-6844 A New Science Quad Stanford’s new science quad sets the standard for interdisciplinary research and teaching at the intersection of the physical and life sciences. Biology, chemistry, engineering, and medicine are linked more closely than ever, allowing researchers to develop new solutions to complex challenges such as human disease and climate change. Venues designed for collaboration have the potential to revolutionize the sciences at the university. The science quad is framed by the Sapp Center for Science Teaching and Learning and The Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Biology Research Building, which opened in 2018. The William M. Keck Science Building, the Lorry I. Lokey Laboratory for Chemical Biology, and the Charles H. Gilbert Biological Sciences Building also form parts of the completed quad. The William Gates Building for Computer Science serves as a gateway to the Science and Engineering Quad. There are connections to the Institute for Chemistry, Engineering & Medicine for Human Health (ChEM-H), and the Stanford Neurosciences Institute, which will be housed in a new building nearby. Flanked by the arts district, the Science and Engineering Quad, and the School of Medicine, the science quad reinforces Stanford’s position as a global leader in interdisciplinary education and research. Giving Opportunities: New Science Quad (PDF) Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Biology Research Building The Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Biology Research Building supports the biology department’s ambition to continue conducting leading foundational research, develop innovative partnerships, and train the best scientists. Working with chemists, mathematicians, engineers, medical researchers, and computer scientists, biologists are finding new ways to tackle global challenges. The five-story building is divided into wet labs for hands-on research, computational or "dry" labs, and hybrid research spaces. Scientists currently divided across five buildings have been brought together under one roof for the first time, with labs placed in a logical sequence that encourages collaboration and discovery. Bass Biology provides laboratory space for half of the biology department's faculty and staff, as well as 300 graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. Giving Opportunities: Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Biology Research Building (PDF) Sapp Center for Science Teaching and Learning The opening of the Sapp Center for Science Teaching and Learning in 2016 launched a new era of science education at Stanford. This iconic building, previously known as “Old Chem,” has been thoroughly reimagined to reflect the Sapp family’s philosophy of interdisciplinary education based on collaborative learning and an open exchange of ideas. The 60,000-square-foot Sapp Center is a state-of-the-art facility that allows Stanford faculty to follow the latest and best practices in the teaching of science. Its classrooms are fully equipped for hands-on work in both chemistry and biology. Up to 4,000 undergraduate students use the center every day, taking courses not only in the natural sciences but also in other fields, such as art, history, statistics, and economics, among others. Designed with flexibility in mind, the Sapp Center will support innovative teaching for decades to come. Giving Opportunities: The Sapp Center for Science Teaching and Learning (PDF) About The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Footer Social Links Facebook Twitter Youtube H&S resources Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning, Compliance, and Administrative Effectiveness Public Relations Research Administration Contact Us Building 1, Main Quad 450 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-2070 Phone: 650-723-2275 Fax: 650-723-3235 Footer Contact Links hsdeansofc@lists.stanford.edu Campus Map University resources Report a website problem Stanford Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford footer: Top links Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Stanford footer: Bottom links Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305