Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Donate Search Search Academics Faculty Courses About Mission & History Land Acknowledgement Staff Contact Us Resources Fellowships & Grants Harvard Scholarships Opportunities Listservs News & Events Indigenous Health Seminar 50th Anniversary Harvard Powwow On Campus Prospective Students Applying to Harvard HOME / On Campus The Harvard University Native American Program is uniquely situated to bring together students, faculty, and staff from all parts of the University as well as friends and community members from peer schools and the surrounding Cambridge/Boston area. This Week at Harvard HUNAP Graduation Celebration Thursday, May 26, 2022 // Sheraton Commander // Reach out to Jason at Jason_Packineau@harvard.edu for more info HUNAP '20-'21 Open House Sunday May 29, 2022 // HUNAP Office // HUNAP will be open from 8 am to 4 pm We will have coffee, bagels and pastries for family members who do not have a ticket for yard activities. We can stream the morning exercises. We will have lunch available for graduates and their families. Drop-in anytime, food will be around all day! You may have learned that HUNAP graduates are starting a new tradition this year, that tradition is also coming to you, so please stop by. Native & Indigenous Community at Harvard There are thousands of courses taught by esteemed faculty members and augmented by Harvard’s unparalleled libraries and resources. HUNAP brings together students, faculty, staff and programs for the purposes of academic scholarship, collaboration, and well-being at Harvard. In our efforts to be globally-minded, we offer and engage in activities and programs that cover Native American, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian and other Indigenous matters. As an interfaculty initiative at Harvard, HUNAP collaborates and is deeply committed with our campus partners with regard to recruitment, admissions, and student affairs across the entire Harvard umbrella. Applying to Harvard The University seeks promising students who will contribute to the Harvard community during their college years, and to society throughout their lives. While academic accomplishment is important, the Admissions Committee considers many other factors—strong personal qualities, special talents or excellences of all kinds, perspectives formed by unusual personal circumstances, and the ability to take advantage of available resources and opportunities. To Apply To apply to Harvard College or to any of the graduate schools, you must visit the Harvard University Admissions & Aid website. HUNAP cannot accept applications for admission. Admissions and Aid Questions? If you have questions about Native student life or academics, please feel free to call or email us to be contacted by a HUNAP staff member or student. You can also check out our blog for interviews featuring Native students and Alumni. Of course, you can also stop by our office if you are local! Email us Student/Alumni Organizations Student Organizations Diné at Harvard (Diné) Future Indigenous Educators Resisting Colonial Education (FIERCE) Indigenous Design Collective (IDC) Indigenous Women’s Group (IWG) Native Americans at Harvard College (NAHC) Native American Health Organization (NAHO) Native American Law Student Association (NALSA) Native American Student Organization at TH Chan (NASO) Alumni Organizations Native American Alumni of Harvard University (NAAHU) Harvard Alumni for Oceania (HAO) Notable Alumni Caleb Cheeshahteaumuck, (Gay Head Aquinnah) Harvard College Class of 1665 Caleb Cheeshahteaumuck was a member of Harvard’s graduating class of 1665. Caleb Cheeshahteaumuck is from a Wampanoag tribe that lived in Martha’s Vineyard. Caleb gained acceptance to Harvard’s Indian College after passing the schools entrance exam at the age of fifteen. Caleb would go on to become the first Native American to graduate from Harvard’s campus in accordance with Harvard’s charter of 1650. This charter stated that Harvard would be dedicated to the education of both English and American Indian scholars. Cheeshahteaumuck was one of few Native students who actually attended Harvard and live a long way from home on Harvard’s campus. Caleb is said to be the inspiration for the novel Caleb’s Crossing, by Geraldine Brooks. A few years after receiving his diploma Caleb Cheeshahteaumuck died in his home, reportedly with a case of smallpox. Contact 14 Story Street, 4th Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 495-4923 hunap@harvard.edu Harvard University is located on the traditional and ancestral land of the Massachusett, the original inhabitants of what is now known as Boston and Cambridge. "For all accommodations...that may conduce to the education of the English and Indian youth of this Country." –The Harvard Charter of 1650 3093b6ec4238132bf1299cb99510a78f Donate 4ec27ab20baf88fa070c7ddba4d3d96f c18a2b20f1c88c66d04efa4a7ae689ad 7dd7d565d1c5e01cd426f5f0ed3d15f5 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement