Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU 442bbfbc0567d8782d1d94a88dd9a691 Search Institutes & Research Projects W. E. B. Du Bois Research Institute Hiphop Archive & Research Institute Afro-Latin American Research Institute Image of the Black Archive & Library Project on Race & Gender in Science & Medicine History Design Studio Jazz Research Initiative Projects & Collections Art & Publications Biographical Dictionaries Cooper Gallery Du Bois Review Image of the Black Archive & Library Transition Magazine Fellowship Program Current Fellows Application News & Events Calendar Hutchins Center Honors Annual Lecture Series Livestream & Webcasts About Annual Reports People Henry Louis Gates, Jr. Hutchins Family Foundation W. E. B. Du Bois Donate HOME / INSTITUTES & RESEARCH PROJECTS / W. E. B. Du Bois Research Institute The Fellows Program is at the heart of the activities of the W. E. B. Du Bois Research Institute Started in 1975 as the W. E. B. Du Bois Institute for Afro-American Research, the Institute has annually appointed scholars who conduct individual research for a period of one to two semesters in a wide variety of fields related to African and African American Studies. With a record of supporting more than 300 Fellows since its founding, the Institute has arguably done more in its short existence to ensure the scholarly development of African and African American Studies than any other pre-doctoral or post-doctoral program in the United States. More About the Program About W.E.B. DuBois Scholar, writer, editor, and civil rights pioneer, was born William Edward Burghardt Du Bois in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, the son of Mary Silvina Burghardt, a domestic worker, and Alfred Du Bois, a barber and itinerant laborer. In later life Du Bois made a close study of his family origins, weaving them rhetorically and conceptually—if not always accurately—into almost everything he wrote. Read More W. E. B. Du Bois Fellows Rumbi Katedza Independent Filmmaker Fall 2019: J. M. D. Manyika Fellow Rumbi Katedza is a filmmaker and writer, who has lived in the USA, Japan, Italy, Canada, the UK and Zimbabwe. She produces corporate and independent... Read more about Rumbi Katedza David Bindman Emeritus Professor of the History of Art, University College London 2021-2022: Image of the Black Archive & Library Fellow David Bindman is Emeritus Durning-Lawrence Professor of the History of Art at University College London. Author of many distinguished... Read more about David Bindman View All Fellows Current Fellows Alumni Fellows Application for 2022-2023 SlaveVoyages Postdoc App 104 Mount Auburn Street, 3R Cambridge, MA 02138 +1 (617) 495-8508 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Newsletter Institutes & Research W. E. B. Du Bois Research Institute Hiphop Archive & Research Institute Afro-Latin American Institute Image of the Black Archive & Library Project on Race & Gender in Science & Medicine History Design Studio Jazz Research Initiative Projects & Collections Art & Publications Cooper Gallery Du Bois Review Transition Magazine Fellowship Program Application Fellows Events Calendar Hutchins Center Forum Hutchins Center Honors Annual Lecture Series Livestream & Webcasts Donate About Henry Louis Gates, Jr. People - Leadership - Staff - Current Fellows W. E. B. Du Bois b70b01efba08b223186b2f7bcd062066 e7a7ad6898d3b6f992a3192a2585739d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement