Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU 442bbfbc0567d8782d1d94a88dd9a691 Search Institutes & Research Projects W. E. B. Du Bois Research Institute Hiphop Archive & Research Institute Afro-Latin American Research Institute Image of the Black Archive & Library Project on Race & Gender in Science & Medicine History Design Studio Jazz Research Initiative Projects & Collections Art & Publications Biographical Dictionaries Cooper Gallery Du Bois Review Image of the Black Archive & Library Transition Magazine Fellowship Program Current Fellows Application News & Events Calendar Hutchins Center Honors Annual Lecture Series Livestream & Webcasts About Annual Reports People Henry Louis Gates, Jr. Hutchins Family Foundation W. E. B. Du Bois Donate Congratulations to the Graduating Class of 2022! Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery: Walking Tour Experience The Hutchins Center is honored to serve as a marker of 'resistance and leadership' - Take the Tour Spring Events Calendar See What's Planned Announcing the Fellows Class of 2022-2023 More Somnyama Ngonyama: Hail the Dark Lioness Take the Cooper Gallery's Virtual Tour More W. E. B. Du Bois Research Institute Cooper Gallery Hiphop Archive & Research Institute Afro-Latin American Research Institute Image of the Black Archive & Library Project on Race & Gender in Science & Medicine History Design Studio Jazz Research Initiative Transition Magazine Du Bois Review HutchinsCenter Hutchins Center director @HenryLouisGates recognized by University of Cambridge with honorary degree t.co/JwCZGj6373 via @Harvard 6 days 21 hours ago. HutchinsCenter 'The Best Books About Race and the Enlightenment' by @HenryLouisGates and @andrewscurran t.co/ZJrZgRvTbq 1 week 2 days ago. Follow us on twitter Hutchins Center Launches Selma Online 55 years after Bloody Sunday, the fight to guarantee voting rights continues Discover the curriculum at selmaonline.org The Extraordinary Commission: Student Activism and the Birth of Afro-American Studies at Harvard View Exhibition Online Cooper Gallery Permanent Collection Browse the Ethelbert Cooper Gallery of African & African American Art's permanent collection. More Afro-Latin American Art: Building the Field The Afro-Latin American Research Institute is forming a continent-wide research network of scholars interested in the study and promotion of Afro-Latin American Art. Read more Webcasts View our archive of events on YouTube Issue 127 Transition's first trilingual issue, Afro-Latin America, features a range of voices testifying to the diversity of black experience across Latin America. Read More Du Bois Review Volume 15 Color Matters: Race, Ethnicity, Crime, and Justice in Uncertain Times Subscribe Contact Us We'd love to hear from you! Details 104 Mount Auburn Street, 3R Cambridge, MA 02138 +1 (617) 495-8508 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Newsletter Institutes & Research W. E. B. Du Bois Research Institute Hiphop Archive & Research Institute Afro-Latin American Institute Image of the Black Archive & Library Project on Race & Gender in Science & Medicine History Design Studio Jazz Research Initiative Projects & Collections Art & Publications Cooper Gallery Du Bois Review Transition Magazine Fellowship Program Application Fellows Events Calendar Hutchins Center Forum Hutchins Center Honors Annual Lecture Series Livestream & Webcasts Donate About Henry Louis Gates, Jr. People - Leadership - Staff - Current Fellows W. E. B. Du Bois b70b01efba08b223186b2f7bcd062066 e7a7ad6898d3b6f992a3192a2585739d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement