Skip to content Toggle navigation Health and Wellbeing Home Campus Recreation Counseling Center Health Initiatives Stamps Health Services Well-Being Connect Get Help Now Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Georgia Tech is a diverse and complex environment that strives for high levels of achievement where our community members seek to balance the personal and professional challenges that are a part of life. Georgia Tech believes wellbeing is an essential piece of the human condition. Wellbeing is the fluid state of life satisfaction impacted by circumstances, environment, and culture. Georgia Tech prepares and equips our community members with the fundamental tools and life skills to thrive. CARE The Center for Assessment, Referral, and Education (CARE) provides a single entry point for students to all mental health resources. It offers mental health assessments, crisis intervention, care plan development and rapid access to appropriate campus resources. More Information Counseling Center The Counseling Center provides a variety of services and programs including short-term individual counseling, group counseling, couples counseling, testing and assessment, crisis intervention, referral services, as well as outreach programming, and consultation for faculty and staff, family and friends of Georgia Tech students. Counseling Center Stamps Health Services Stamps Health Services is an outpatient ambulatory care center accredited by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) that provides health care to students and their spouses and partners. Our services include primary care, psychiatry, women’s health, travel, immunization, and allergy, pharmacy, and laboratory and radiology. Stamps Health Services Campus Recreation Campus Recreation provides a state-of-the-art fitness center, world class aquatics facilities, and outdoor recreation fields. The department provides a variety of programs and services through aquatics programs, fitness classes and programs, competitive sports, and outdoor recreation. Campus Recreation Health Initiatives Health Initiatives influences and empowers the campus community to practice healthy lifestyle behaviors by providing inclusive and innovative prevention-based programs, support services, and learning experiences. Services include educational programs, events and workshops, nutrition counseling and sexual violence prevention, education and response. Health Initiatives Employee Assistance Program The University System of Georgia has contracted with Kepro to provide employees and their family members with a comprehensive Employee Assistance Program (EAP). All healthcare benefits-eligible employees and their families have access to the program. Employee Assistance Program Upcoming Events Jun 7 Start the Conversation 101: A Suicide Prevention Presentation Come learn how to seize the awkward and Start the Conversation! Jun 9 QPR Suicide Prevention Training QPR stands for Question, Persuade and Refer — the 3 simple steps anyone can learn to help save a life from suicide. Jun 22 QPR Suicide Prevention Training QPR stands for Question, Persuade and Refer — the 3 simple steps anyone can learn to help save a life from suicide. Jul 6 Start the Conversation 101: A Suicide Prevention Presentation Come learn how to seize the awkward and Start the Conversation! Jul 8 QPR Suicide Prevention Training QPR stands for Question, Persuade and Refer — the 3 simple steps anyone can learn to help save a life from suicide. News Help Welcome New Yellow Jackets in August Georgia Tech’s annual new student welcome event brings campus partners together for a week of programming, August 14 – 21. VOICE Team Expands On-Call Services With RAINN VOICE, Georgia Tech’s sexual violence prevention and victim-survivor support program, has been available 24/7 for several years. They are now expanding their services by partnering with RAINN, a national sexual assault hotline service with trained staff that will provide additional service to the Georgia Tech community. This expansion centralizes the support service to a single phone number (404.894.9000) instead of calling one number during the day and the Georgia Tech Police Department (GTPD) after hours. Tech Dentistry Reopens to Campus Tech Dentistry is now open on campus after closing temporarily in December 2021. Campus Recreation Hosts Four Championship Swim Meets this Spring Over the next two months, the Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Complex and the McAuley Aquatic Center will host three championship events: the Georgia High School Association (GHSA) meet, the Athletic Coast Conference (ACC) meet and the National Colligate Athletic Associate (NCAA) meet. 22 Resolutions for Your Well-Being in 2022 The New Year offers hope and potential for change, and meaningful change starts with small but impactful actions. These campus and Atlanta resources will help inspire you in 2022. Student Services' Sustainability Stake The new Division of Student Engagement and Well-Being is wrapping up Sustainability Month in October by highlighting several of its strategic initiatives that foster the goal of creating sustainable practices and programming with a focus on increasing well-being. Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Auxiliary Operations Bookstore - Barnes and Noble @ Georgia Tech Business Services Buzzcard Center Campus Recreation Center Campus Services Dining Services Health Initiatives Health Services Health and Well-Being Housing Information Technology Group Office of Human Resources Parking & Transportation Services Student Center Health & Well-Being Departments Campus Recreation Health Promotion Health Services Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology