Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Harvard University Committee on Inner Asian and Altaic Studies Home Academic Program Doctoral Degree Doctoral Dissertations Links Admissions IAAS People IAAS Committee Members IAAS Graduate Students IAAS Staff IAAS Lecture Series Special Events 2021-2022 News & Events The Committee on Inner Asian and Altaic Studies was established in the fall of 1972 for the purpose of stimulating and integrating instruction and research in the history and cultures of the peoples in the steppe, mountain, forest, and oasis areas between China, Russia, western Iran, and Pakistan. This geographic area comprises greater Central Asia (namely former Soviet Central Asia, Xinjiang, eastern Iran, and Afghanistan), Kazakhstan, the northern regions of Pakistan, Tibet (including Qinghai and eastern Sichuan, Gansu, and northwestern Yunnan), Mongolia, and Manchuria. The Altaic languages include the Turkic group, the Mongolian group, and the Tungusic group. Harvard University is pre-eminent among the very few universities where Inner Asian and Altaic studies may be pursued. Harvard's library holdings in East European, East Asian, Islamic, and South Asian areas led to a development of strength in the Inner Asian and Altaic fields prior to the actual establishment of this program. The research centers and degree programs that exist at Harvard have contributed much material directly relevant to the study of this region. Harvard possesses outstanding collections in the Chinese, Iranian, Turkish, Arabic, Indian, and Russian languages which comprise the most important primary sources for the study of this area, as well as in Manchu, Mongolian, and Tibetan. These collections are variously held by the Widener, Harvard-Yenching, Houghton, Dumbarton Oaks, Gibb, Tozzer, and Fine Arts libraries. The East Asian Research Center, the Jewett Collection, and Harvard's microfilm collections also contain important source material in this field. Contact IAAS, Harvard University 1730 Cambridge Street, Suite 105 Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617/495-3777 iaas@fas.harvard.edu Harvard University COVID 19 Information and Updates Harvard University has been closely monitoring the ongoing COVID 19 outbreak. For additional information please visit Harvard COVID-19 and Harvard University Health Services. Upcoming Events Congratulations to Zhouyang Ma on receiving the Bok Certificate in Teaching Language and Culture! May 5, 2022 In collaboration with the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning awards the Bok Certificate in Teaching Language and Culture to GSAS PhD students who demonstrate their commitment to excellence in the teaching of language(s) and culture(s). Well done, Zhouyang! ... Read more about Congratulations to Zhouyang Ma on receiving the Bok Certificate in Teaching Language and Culture! Offered in Person and Virtually! This Time It Will Be Different: State Discourse and Native Response in Xinjiang, 1934-1957 April 6, 2022 Dr. Joshua L. Freeman will be returning to the Harvard Inner Asian and Altaic Studies Program to present his work "This Time It Will Be Different: State Discourse and Native Response in Xinjiang, 1934-195" On Wednesday... Read more about Offered in Person and Virtually! This Time It Will Be Different: State Discourse and Native Response in Xinjiang, 1934-1957 FILM SCREENING AND DISCUSSION : Two Poets and a River March 23, 2022 Film Screening and Discussion: Two Poets and a River ...Read more about FILM SCREENING AND DISCUSSION : Two Poets and a River More Filter News by Month May 2022 (1) April 2022 (1) March 2022 (2) February 2022 (2) January 2022 (2) 1 of 6 » Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement