Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Community Alumni and Giving The Impact of Your Gifts We are grateful for the corporate and private philanthropic partners who so generously support the vision and impact of the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts. Notable Alumni Blurb / Gallery Set John Stern and Reed Catlett Stern and Catlett are director and trustee, respectively, of B and B Stern Foundation The Melvin Kranzberg Seminar Room in the School of History and Sociology provides students and faculty a space for sharing the latest research and hosting visitors from around the world. Kranzberg was a pioneer of the history of technology field. Photo (l to r): John Stern, Reed Catlett, and HSOC Chair Steve Usselman Jon R. Wilcox Co-founder, CEO, and director of California Republic Bancorp In announcing the Jon R. Wilcox Term Professorship in Soccer, Global Politics, and Society, Wilcox said, “As a lifelong sports enthusiast and participant, I have witnessed the role of sports in politics and society and see this as an understudied field. More importantly, I have observed the transformative role that sports can play in the world, in particular in Latin America.” Photo: Wilcox Professor Kirk Bowman with Jon Wilcox (r) J. Vernon O’Neal, Jr. B.S. Economics 1979 Senior Vice President, Wells Fargo Insurance Services USA, Inc. The Joel V. O'Neal Endowment Fund supports merit-based scholarships for rising juniors and seniors majoring in Economics. Established in 2006, the endowment by Lou D. O’Neal and J. Vernon O’Neal, Jr. honors their late husband and father. Gail and Barry Spurlock B.S. Mechanical Engineering Barry is President of Spurlock & Associates, Inc. The Spurlock Study Abroad Scholarship Endowment Fund is endowed in perpetuity. "The Languages for Business and Technology (LBAT) offered by Dr. Bettina Cothran is one of the best opportunities for widening the horizons of Tech students I have ever seen. I have visited her summer program in Germany three times and was amazed at the number of experiences the students were presented. My wife, Gail, and I set up our scholarship program so no student would be denied the opportunity to participate in the German LBAT because of a lack of money." LBAT is also available in other languages. Photo (l to r): Gail and Barry Spulock and ModLangs Professor Bettina Cothran The Coca-Cola Foundation In announcing the grant for International Affairs Studies for First-Generation Georgia Tech Students, Ingrid Saunders Jones, chairperson of The Coca-Cola Foundation (now retired) said, “Our grants invest in the ingenuity of grassroots partners who contribute to the well-being of communities around the world. With our support, these partners work to improve the quality of life for their families, their neighbors, their cities, and their countries.” Colonel Stephen C. Hall, USAF (Retired) B.S. Management While dedicating the Stephen C. Hall Building housing the Writing and Communication Program, Hall said, “The adventure continues – an adventure steeped in scholarship, lighted by a legacy, grounded in gratitude, and powered by a promise. That promise being that Pam and I will continue the journey, doing as much as we can, for as long as we can, as Tech and the Ivan Allen College grow into the years ahead.” J. C. "Bud" Shaw, Sr. Bud Shaw's generosity has positioned the School of History and Sociology to anchor a truly distinctive program of education and research in Sports, Society, and Technology (SST). The program will engage faculty and students from across the College and Georgia Tech community. Ivan Allen College faculty and staff were saddened by the death of Bud Shaw in spring 2015 and remember with great warmth his support and friendship. Photo (l to r): Former Dean Jacqueline Royster, Bud Shaw, and Dr. Homer Rice) More Information Blurb / Gallery Set Find Out More Georgia Tech Alumni Association Campus Map & Virtual Tour Mentor Jackets Alumni Success Stories Why Give? Contact: Jada Marcum Director of Development, Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Email jada.marcum@gatech.edu Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology