Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Research Distinguished Faculty Researchers Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Distinguished Researchers are senior faculty who have an eminent record of publications in academic and industry journals and/or influential books, and who have current projects with noteworthy potential. Recognized annually by the dean of the College, recipients receive a significant stipend for research. 2019 Lisa Yaszek Lisa Yaszek Professor in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication and Faculty Coordinator for SciFi@Tech An internationally recognized expert in cultural studies of science, technology, and science fiction, Lisa Yaszek’s research is driven by the premise that science fiction functions as a global language enabling people to communicate their experiences of science, technology, and society across centuries, continents, and cultures. She is particularly interested in issues of gender, race, and science and technology in science fiction, the recovery of lost voices and new voices in the genre. She is the author of Lisa’s books are highly successful. Among her books is the award-winning Sisters of Tomorrow: The First Women of Science Fiction (Wesleyan 2016) authored with Patrick Sharp. 2018 Brian Magerko Brian Magerko Professor and Director of Graduate Studies in Digital Media, Director of the Expressive Machinery Lab Brian Magerko’s research explores the intersection of creativity, cognition, and computing. His work encompasses creativity and human cognition, building artificial intelligence systems that can creatively collaborate with human users, and exploring the use of human creativity as a gateway to better understanding how to effectively teach computing skills. His work results in cutting edge digital media experiences in interactive installation, interactive narrative, and educational media. He has authored over 100 peer reviewed articles and has received more than $13 million dollars in federally-funded research, much of that for the STEAM-based learning environment for computer science called EarSketch that is use worldwide and that won recognition from the Obama White House. 2017 Mary Frank Fox Mary Frank Fox Professor and ADVANCE Professor in the School of Public Policy. Co-director of the Center for the Study of Women, Science, and Technology at Georgia Institute of Technology A pioneer in the study of gender in science, Mary Frank Fox’s publications have appeared in more than 60 different scholarly and scientific journals, books, and collections. Her research focuses on gender, science, and academia — the study of women and men in academic and scientific organizations and occupations, with significant implications for science and technology policy. Her research has introduced and established the ways in which scientists' participation and performance reflect, and are affected by, the social and organizational settings in which they are educated and work. 2016 Jay P. Telotte Jay P. Telotte Professor in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication A specialist in film history and genres, Jay P. Telotte has authored 10 books, edited four others, published more than 150 scholarly articles, and presented numerous conference papers. Among his recent books are Science Fiction Television (Routledge, 2014); and an examination of the "ecology" of the robot image in film and popular culture, Robot Ecology and the Science Fiction Film (Routledge, 2016). He is co-editor of the film journal Post Script and serves as editorial board member and reviewer for a number of other film and genre-related journals. 2015 Alasdair Young Alasdair Young Professor and director of the Center for European and Transatlantic Studies, a Jean Monnet Center of Excellence, Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Alasdair Young is an expert in international trade. He held a Jean Monnet Chair from 2012-15 and is chair of the European Union Studies Association (USA). He has written three books including Parochial Global Europe: 21st Century Trade Politics with John Peterson (Edinburgh) (Oxford University Press, 2014). He has edited eight other volumes and a special issue of the Journal of European Public Policyon the European Union as a global regulator (Vol. 22/9). He has published more than a dozen articles and written more than 30 book chapters. Hanchao Lu Hanchao Lu Professor and director of the China Research Center, School of History and Sociology A specialist in modern East Asian history, Hanchao Lu has published widely in leading journals in both English and Chinese. He is the author of three award-winning books including The Birth of A Republic: Francis Stafford’s Photographs of China’s 1911 Revolution and Beyond (University of Washington, 2010). His works have been translated into Chinese, Korean, Japanese, and Spanish. Lu is the editor-in-chief of the peer-reviewed journal, Chinese Historical Review, and the editor of a sixteen-volume series, The Culture and Customs of Asia (ABC-Clio). Lu brought the China Research Center to Georgia Tech in 2017. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology