Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Programs What Would I Study? Our students study the humanities, the natural and social sciences, computing, and technology. Whether learning about race and gender in politics; science and technology policy; cultures and languages; national security; political economy; foreign direct investment; film production; or user experience, app and game design, you'll examine issues from a scientific and technological perspective, learn how to think critically, to define, evaluate, and analyze, and explore impacts on society, culture, and policy. That technology lens, along with the basic computing and math requirements for Georgia Tech undergraduates, provide a foundation that allows you to understand and work effectively with those in technology-based disciplines during your work here and, ultimately, in your career. See All Majors See All Minors See All Certificates What Are My Career Choices? Liberal arts studies afford students the widest range of career choices. These include law, medicine, business, finance, education, public health, government service, management and consulting, non-profit administration, marketing, journalism, policy analysis, user experience and user interaction design and many more. Use our exploration tool below to find which majors, minors, and other offerings support your career goals. Explore Majors, Minors, and Certificates by Career or School How Do You Want To Explore? By Career By School Which Careers? Add/Remove Careers Select the career(s) you are interested in exploring 3-D Modeling Accounting Animation App/Mobile Development Banking and Investment Analysis Biotechnology and Ethics Business Consulting Campaign Management City and Regional Planning Communications and Public Relations Computer Animation Content Development Currency Trading Defense Modeling and Simulation Design Research Development Digital Diplomacy Diplomacy and National Security Economic Analysis Economic Development Education Energy and Environmental Affairs Entrepreneurship Environmental Economics Environmental Policy Executive Search and Talent Sourcing Film and Television Production Financial Management Foreign Diplomacy Foreign Language Education Foreign Policy Fundraising and Development Global Health and Humanitarian Service Global Health Policy and Administration Global Organization Management Government Agencies Government Organizations Government Relations Graphic Design Health Policy and Administration Historic Preservation Human Relations Import and Export Enterprises Information Architecture Information Technology Intellectual Property and Privacy Law Interactive Television International Business Analysis International Business and Finance International Development International Finance International Government Agencies International Investment Analysis International Market Analysis International Non-government Agencies International Security and Intelligence International Tax Consultation International Trade Internet Policy and Cybersecurity Journalism and Publishing Law Legislative Staff - State and Federal Library and Archives Management Management Market Research Marketing and Public Relations Media Relations Multilingual Industries Multinational Industries Museum Curation Nonprofit Organizations Patent Agent Policy Analysis and Research Political Campaign Management Political Consulting Political Risk Management Program Management Public Administration Public Health Quality Assurance Testing Risk Management and Communication Social Entreprenurship Social Organizations Social Services Software Design/Development Software Engineering Special Effects Creation Sports Management and Media Startup Development Statistical Analysis Technology Assessment Trade and Economic Development Transportation Policy and Planning UI / UX Design Video Game Design and Development Virtual and Augmented Reality Website Design and Development Save Selections Which Schools? Add/Remove Schools Select the school(s) you are interested in exlporing Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Economics School of History and Sociology School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Save Selections Minors and Certificates Many students complement their major with minor and/or certificate programs. These programs broaden knowledge in non-major disciplines, develop skills around an area of interest, and expand potential for success in the student's chosen endeavors. Minors are posted on your final transcript. Minor Requirements: Most require 15 hours of course work with at least 12 hours at the 3000 level or higher Certificate requirements: Certificate programs require 12 hours of course work with six hours at the 3000 level or higher Consult an advisor in the school offering the minor or certificate to plan appropriate courses and ensure that you meet all requirements. Our full list of minors and certificates are in the chart above. You may also browse this on our individual school websites. Courses with a Focus on Gender and/or Race Race and gender issues are foundational for much of the teaching, research, programs, and public engagement in the College, in alignment with our mission and our commitment to the legacy of namesake Ivan Allen Jr. Race and gender studies are integrated into more than 130 courses in our six schools. In some cases, this focus is evident from the course title. Find out if a course that interests you covers race and gender issues by checking the description in the Georgia Tech Course Catalog, or by asking an advisor in the school offering the course. Contact An Advisor Need more details on a program? Can’t decide on a major? Consulting with an advisor in the College can help you sort through the options. Start by contacting the advisor in a program you think you’d like, and we’ll help you go from there. Undergraduate Advisors The Georgia Institute of Technology is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, telephone 404-679-4500, http://www.sacscoc.org for questions about the accreditation of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology