Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home About the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts A Vanguard for 21st Century Liberal Arts Liberal arts have always been a part of Georgia Tech, with English one of six subjects offered when we opened our doors in 1888. We have not stopped innovating since. Today, our core goals are to enrich knowledge-making processes, encourage discovery, and advance problem-solving approaches in ways that incorporate philosophical, socio-historical, cultural, linguistic, political, and economic perspectives and ethical principles. Our six schools (Economics; History and Sociology; Literature, Media, and Communication; Modern Languages; Public Policy; and the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs) and 18 research centers offer programs and experiences that redefine what the humanities and social sciences can be. The College has twelve areas where curriculum and research bridge across two or more schools: Digital humanities Energy, environmental science, and sustainability Ethics and emerging technologies Gender studies Global development Global languages and cultures Health analytics, policy, and well-being Media studies Security issues Science and technology policy and governance Social justice The result? Graduates uniquely equipped with a richly defined base of technical expertise, a well-grounded sense of social responsibility, and an awareness of the need to improve the human condition. A World-Class Faculty Nearly 350 tenured, tenure-track, non-tenure-track, and permanent research faculty work at the Ivan Allen College. Our roster includes seven fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), one of the few professors at Georgia Tech to be elected to both the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering, a fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration, a Fulbright Scholar, and a National Book Award finalist. The Legacies of Ivan Allen Jr. The Legacies of Ivan Allen, Jr. The College proudly advances former Atlanta Mayor Ivan Allen Jr.’s legacies of transformative urban leadership and socially and ethically conscious action. Our cross-disciplinary research, teaching, and service enlarge upon the very same realms that were part of his original Forward Atlanta plan. Today, our work encompasses innovative education, global leadership development, international relations, governance, and public policy, community relations, economic development, innovation, urban development and sustainability, arts, media and entertainment, sports and society, and more. We hope that by illuminating Mayor Allen’s legacies, Georgia Tech students are inspired to leadership grounded in courage, compassion, and social justice. World-Changing Interdisciplinary Research Research The College is home to a remarkable concentration of researchers in economics, the history and sociology of technology and science, global media and cultures, digital humanities, technology-focused international security, science and technology policy. The Ivan Allen College offers a wealth of opportunities for undergraduate and graduate student research. Faculty and program leadership span an extraordinary range of fields, and many are internationally renowned as educational leaders. Explore your options. Graduates Who Are Influencers and Innovators Alumni Success Stories Ivan Allen are the people who ask, ‘Why?’ We don’t just come up with solutions. We invent brand new ways of coming at the problem. Through distinguished careers in academia, business, community, government, international affairs, law, media, public policy, and technology, Ivan Allen College alumni are forging new pathways and redefining our future. Explore our Alumni success stories Ivan Allen College Rankings Ranking Category #2 Best Value Interaction Design: MS in Human-Computer Interaction (MS-HCI) or MS in Digital Media (MS-DM) Value Colleges.com, 2020 #3 Best Game Design Schools in the South Animation Career Review, 2020 #3 Best Master’s Degrees in Economics GradSchoolHub, 2020 #7 Best Master’s in Economics Best College Reviews, 2020 #9 Nationally for M.S in Game Design; B.S. Ranks #10 Animation Career Review, 2020 #10 Best Master’s in Economics Degrees CollegeChoice, 2020 #12 Best Energy and Environmental Policy Graduate Program (Public Policy/Public Affairs) U.S. News & World Report, 2020 #14 Top School for Game Design Animation Career Review, 2020 #24 Best Graduate Program for Public Policy Analysis US News & World Report, 2020 #45 Best Graduate Program in Public Affairs U.S. News & World Report, 2020 Georgia Tech Rankings Ranking Category #1 #1 in Georgia and #12 among all U.S. colleges for best 20-Year Return on Investment PayScale.com #3 Highest Return on Educational Investment WalletHub, 2020 #4 Most Innovative Schools in U.S. U.S. News & World Report, 2020 #8 Top Public Universities U.S. News & World Report, 2020 #8 Best Alumni Network Princeton Review, 2020 #11 Undergraduate Research / Creative Projects US News & World Report, 2020 #12 Senior Capstone Projects U.S. News & World Report, 2020 #15 Best Colleges for Veterans US News & World Report, 2020 #24 Learning Communities U.S. News & World Report, 2021 #34 Smartest Public College in America Business Insider, 2020 #35 Best National Universities U.S. News & World Report, 2021 #66 Global Universities U.S. News & World Report, 2020 Ivan Allen College at a Glance Fast Facts 6 Schools 16 Bachelor of Science Degrees 14 Masters Degrees 6 Doctoral Degrees Statistics Blurb / Gallery Set Enrollment Totals Degree Level 837 Undergraduate Students 507 Master's Students 106 Doctoral Students Students Ratios Demographic 48% Male 52% Female 2:3 Minority:White 4:1 Student:Faculty Undergraduates Ratios Experience 97% Retention of Students After First Year (compared to 80% national average for 4-year universities 40% Complete Internships 39% Conduct Undergraduate Research 71% Graduate with International Experience $60k Average Starting Salary Faculty Totals Qualification 152 Academic Faculty 128 Non-Tenure-Track Faculty 12 Research Faculty Research Metrics Category 19 Research Centers $9.0 In Annual Sponsored Research Related Pages Blurb / Gallery Set Latest News What's new in the Ivan Allen College Featured Research Latest developments lead by the Ivan Allen College Why Liberal Arts at Georgia Tech? Redefining traditional humanities and social sciences Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology