Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home About the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Our Commitment to a Diverse Community The Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts enthusiastically embraces the values set forth in the Georgia Tech strategic plan — a welcoming, inclusive culture; mutual respect among faculty, staff, and students; and celebration of uniqueness in thought, background, perspectives, and intellectual pursuits. These values are inherent in all that we do and are set forth in the principles that guide our work. Our policies and practices will demonstrate respect for all human beings, regardless of how those people may differ. The rights of all people to function with dignity are crucial, whether we are interacting within this vibrant intellectual community or with others across our streets and around the globe. We recognize that engendering a spirit of inclusiveness and respect and creating, thereby, a climate in which we can all thrive requires each of us to be socially conscious and culturally well-informed, and to operate with a keen sense of ethical responsibility. We believe that, when we accept that human excellence has the capacity to emerge from many, many sources, a strong and enabling sense of community can be set in motion, a belief that makes quite real an enabling of our greatest expectations. At Georgia Tech and in the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts, we expect high performance and world-class achievements in research, education, and public action, and we believe that with an inclusive culture, these expectations become, not just possible, but predictable and sustainable. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is long-standing as part of our founding principles and Mayor Allen's legacy of social responsibility, social justice, and social courage. To further strengthen the visibility and impact of our commitment, in September 2019 we established a Diversity and Inclusion Council within the College. Participation in the council is open to all faculty, staff, and students in the College. Additionally, school chairs nominate faculty, staff, and students for participation. The council has created a statement of Faculty-Staff Expectations. The dean's office designates budget to support these expectations. Questions? Visit the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Council website. Read below about the many champions of diversity within the College and some of the Georgia Tech diversity resources. Diversity News Blurb / Gallery Set 2020 Faces of Inclusive Excellence Twelve faculty, staff, and students in the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts were awardees at the 2020 Georgia Tech Diversity and Inclusion Symposium. 2020 Diversity Champions Our Writing and Communications Program housed in LMC and HCI master's student Nandita Gupta were celebrated as 2020 Diversity Champions. Past Diversity Honorees Quick Links Blurb / Gallery Set Georgia Tech Diversity Office Georgia Tech LGBTQIA Resources Women in Science and Technology Center (WST) ADVANCE Professorships Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology