Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Pages: 1 | Page 2 | Page 3 | Page 4 | Page 5 | Page 6 | Page 7 | Page 8 | Page 9 | Page 10 Anupam Wins 2021 Best Digital Media Dissertation May 31, 2022 In his dissertation, Anupam outlines an approach to help educators design digital games for teaching science and engineering. Shapira Publishes Article on Building a Better Bioeconomy May 26, 2022 The essay was published in "Issues in Science and Technology," HSOC Grad Student to Attend Harvard STS Summer School May 25, 2022 School of History and Sociology master's student Ben Wills will attend Harvard's week-long STS Summer School in July. Nunn School Renews Navy Fellowship Program Through 2025 May 25, 2022 A Navy Fellow will reside at Georgia Tech and audit courses for annually for the next three years. Chang Authors Chapter on Live, Virtual Language Teaching May 24, 2022 The chapter addresses the benefits and challenges of teaching a foreign language in a synchronous online class. Nunn School Student Researchers Win Outstanding Paper Award for Work on EU, AI May 24, 2022 Varun Roy and Vignesh Sreedhar are research assistants to Professor Vicki Birchfield. LMC Team Publishes Article on Feminist Teaching May 24, 2022 In the article, the co-authors and collaborators share examples of interdisciplinary work in feminist making and teaching. Michney's Redlining Paper Wins Prize for Best Scholarly Journal Article May 23, 2022 "The Roots of Redlining: Academic, Governmental, and Professional Networks in the Making of the New Deal Lending Regime" won the 2021 Catherine Bauer Wurster Prize from the Society for American City and Regional Planning History. Yaszek, Sci Fi Lab Fellows Co-author Article on Feminist Sci Fi May 23, 2022 The article appeared in FEMSPEC, an interdisciplinary feminist journal. Public Policy Ph.D. Student Publishes Article on Open Access Usage in National Academies May 23, 2022 Ameet Doshi served as primary author of the article alongside a team of School of Public Policy researchers. Truran Publishes Chapter in ‘The Routledge Companion to Literature and Emotion’ May 20, 2022 In the chapter, Truran defines "affect theory." Utz Publishes Essay on Kipling’s Medievalist Imagination May 20, 2022 The essay appeared in 'Studies in Medievalism.' Loukissas Publishes Article on Data-Driven Segregation May 19, 2022 The article, titled “Who Wants to Live in a Filter Bubble?: From ‘Zillow Surfing’ to Data-Driven Segregation,” was published in "Interactions." Auslander Publishes Article on Icelandic Artist Ragnar Kjartansson May 19, 2022 The article appeared in "PAJ: A Journal of Performance and Art." Krige Publishes Knowledge Regulation and National Security in Postwar America May 19, 2022 The book, published by the University of Chicago Press, is "the first historical study of export control regulations as a tool for the sharing and withholding of knowledge." Dhongde Publishes Article on Multidimensional Poverty May 19, 2022 Shatakshee Dhongde, associate professor in the School of Economics, published "Multidimensional Poverty in the US" in Public Health Post. The article summarizes her recent research on the subject. Levine Co-authors Article on Value of Real-time Data in Cell Therapy May 18, 2022 The article was published in "Current Opinion in Biomedical Engineering." Sugimoto Co-authors Article on Cumulative Advantage for Researchers in Journals May 17, 2022 The article was published in "PLOS One." Kostyuk to Research Peace Settlements, Misinformation in Ukraine May 12, 2022 She will investigate how Ukrainian attitudes towards peace have changed after experiencing wartime violence. Nunn School Group Publishes First of Three Articles Detailing AI Recommendations for NATO May 12, 2022 The article came from the Nunn School's participation in the NATO Innovation Challenge. Pages: 1 | Page 2 | Page 3 | Page 4 | Page 5 | Page 6 | Page 7 | Page 8 | Page 9 | Page 10 Upcoming Events Sorry, no upcoming events found. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology