Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Degrees Undergraduate Majors B.S. in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies This program delivers foreign language study in the contexts of social and technical communication, cultural perspectives, industry, technology, arts and literature. B.S. in Computational Media The B.S. in Computational Media combines computer science with digital media design, helping students to understand and manipulate both technology and media. B.S. in Economics The B.S. degree in Economics is the science of decision making and provides the ability to analyze complex economic problems and to understand societal problems. B.S. in Economics and International Affairs The program in Economics and International Affairs focuses on the most pressing issues facing our global interdependent, and multicultural environment. B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages The global Economics and Modern Languages program equips students for the global workplace by developing strong skills in economic analysis and decision making, foreign languages, and multidimensional global perspective. B.S. in History, Technology, and Society This program combines work in sociology and history and equips students to analyze societies, pursue social change, and succeed in a variety of careers. B.S. in International Affairs This program allows you to focus your degree on the factors that are shaping our world during a time of dramatic political, economic, social, and technological change. B.S. in International Affairs and Modern Languages A B.S. in International Affairs and Modern Languages prepares you for employment in internationally oriented firms, government agencies, and non-profit organizations. B.S. in Literature, Media, and Communication This program provides the analytical and technical skills required for a career in humanistic fields such as Media, Public Relations, and Literature. B.S. in Public Policy This program combines political, social, economic and ethical approaches with practical problem solving in a technology-infused environment. Five Year BS/MS Majors B.S. / M.S. in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies The 5-year BS/MS-ALIS allows students majoring in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies (ALIS) to continue their studies beyond the undergraduate level and gain an advanced degree (MS-ALIS) that qualifies them for leadership positions in a variety of careers, including management, international business, globally oriented design and engineering, and communications. B.S. / M.S. in Computational Media and Digital Media This program combines a Bachelor of Science degree in Computational Media with a Master of Science degree in Digital Media. B.S. / M.S. in Economics This program enables students to obtain both a Bachelors and Masters degree in Economics in just five years. B.S. / M.S. in Economics and International Affairs This program is combines a Bachelor of Science degree in Economics and International Affairs with a Master of Science degree in Economics. B.S. / M.S. in International Affairs The Sam Nunn School of International Affairs offers a B.S. / M.S. program for students who demonstrate an interest in cultivating skills to demystify the major issues confronting the world today B.S. / M.S. in Literature, Media, and Communication and Digital Media This program is combines a Bachelor of Science in Literature, Media, and Communication with a Master of Science degree in Digital Media B.S. / M.S. in Public Policy This program enables students to obtain both a Bachelors and Masters degree in just five years The Georgia Institute of Technology is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, telephone 404-679-4500, http://www.sacscoc.org for questions about the accreditation of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology