Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Endowed Chairs and Professorships Dean's Chair Kaye Husbands Fealing Ivan Allen, Jr. Dean's Chair in Liberal Arts and Technology Faculty Chair Jay Bolter James and Mary Wesley Chair for New Media Studies School of Literature, Media and Communication Ilya Kaminsky Margaret T. and Henry C. Bourne, Jr. Chair in Poetry School of Literature, Media and Communication Mary McDonald Homer C. Rice Chair in Sports and Society School of History and Sociology Cassidy Sugimoto Tom and Marie Patton Chair School of Public Policy Adam Stulberg Sam Nunn Chair Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Alasadair Young Neal Family Chair Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Professorships Melissa Ianetta Class of 1958 Professor in Communication School of Literature, Media and Communication Tibor Besedes Mary S. and Richard B. Inman, Jr. Professorship School of Economics Vacant Melvin Kranzberg Professorship in the History of Technology School of History of Sociology Steven W. Usselman H. Bruce McEver Professor in Engineering and Liberal Arts School of History of Sociology Johnny Smith J.C. "Bud" Shaw Professor of Sports History School of History of Sociology Term Professorships Mary McDonald ADVANCE Professor Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Kirk Bowman Jon R. Wilcox Term Professorship of Global Development and Identity Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Related Links Interested in Endowing a Chair or Professorship? Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology