Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Students Graduate Students Graduate Program Directors and Advisors Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Dean's Office Blurb / Gallery Set Shatakshee Dhongde, Ph.D. Associate Professor and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs Email shatakshee.dhongde@econ.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.1890 Office Old CE Building, Room 221 Graduate FAQ The School of Economics Graduate Degrees: B.S. / M.S. in Economics B.S. in Economics and International Affairs / M.S. in Economics M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics School of Economics Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Olga Shemyakina, Ph.D. Director of Doctoral Studies Email olga.shemyakina@econ.gatech.edu Office Old CE Building 322 Usha Nair-Reichert, Ph.D. Director of Master’s Studies Email usha.nair@gatech.edu Phone Old CE Building, 206 Office 404.894.4903 The School of History and Sociology Graduate Degrees: M.S. in History and Sociology of Technology and Science Ph.D. in History and Sociology of Technology and Science School of History and Sociology Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Kristie Macrakis, Ph.D. Director of Graduate Studies Email kristie.macrakis@hsoc.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.2185 Office Old CE Building LaDonna Bowen-Chavers Academic Advisor Email ladonna.bowen@hsoc.gatech.edu Phone Old CE Building, 108D Office 404.894.3198 The Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Graduate Degrees: B.S. / M.S. in International Affairs M.S. in International Affairs Ph.D. in International Affairs, Science, and Technology School of International Affairs Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Jenna Jordan, Ph.D. Director of Graduate Studies Email jenna.jordan@inta.gatech.edu Office Habersham Building Vince Pedicino Assistant Director of Graduate Studies Email vince.pedicino@inta.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.1905 Office Habersham 157 The School of Literature, Media, and Communication Graduate Degrees: B.S. in Computational Media/M.S. in Digital Media M.S. in Digital Media M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction M.S. in Global Media and Cultures Ph.D. in Digital Media School of Literature, Media, and Communication Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Brian Magerko, Ph.D. Director of Graduate Studies Email brian.magerko@lmc.gatech.edu Office TSRB 319 Narin Hassan, Ph.D. Director of the M.S. in Global Media and Cultures Email narin.hassan@lmc.gatech.edu Office Skiles 338 The School of Modern Languages Graduate Degrees: B.S. / M.S. in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies M.S. in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies M.S. in Global Media and Culture School of Modern Languages Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Juan Carlos Rodríguez, Ph.D. Director of Graduate Studies Email juan.rodriguez@modlangs.gatech.edu Phone 404.385.7251 Office Swann 313 The School of Public Policy Degree Programs: M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy (on campus) M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy (online) Master in Sustainability Energy and Environmental Management (MSEEM) (online) Master in Sustainability Energy and Environmental Management (MSEEM) (on campus) B.S. / M.S. in Public Policy M.S. in Public Policy Dual M.S. in Public Policy and City and Regional Planning Ph.D. in Public Policy Ph.D. in Public Policy - Joint with Georgia State University School of Public Policy Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Alice Favero, Ph.D. Associate Director of Graduate Studies Email alice.favero@gatech.edu Phone 404.385.3785 Office DM Smith 318 Michael Terrell, Ed.D. Academic Program Manager Email grad@pubpolicy.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.0417 Office DM Smith 114 Relieve Stress with Seven Campus Resources Costs, Financial Aid, and Scholarships Why Ivan Allen College for Grad School Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology