Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Community A Tightly-Knit Community With just over one thousand students, faculty, and staff and a multidisciplinary alumni community, the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts has the feel of a small college combined with the boundless opportunity of a world-leading research institute. This creates a community with rich intellectual exchange and robust extra-curricular activities. Our culture embodies characteristics that are intrinsic to Georgia Tech — extraordinary interdisciplinary collaboration, industriousness, and enthusiasm for solving the most complex human problems. All the Advantages of a World-Class University with a Small College Feel. Related Pages Blurb / Gallery Set Critical Dialogues The College offers a robust schedule of lectures, seminars, workshops, research dialogues, and world-leading conferences. DramaTech Theatre A thriving theatrical laboratory environment at Georgia Tech that enriches the greater Atlanta community through innovative and diverse live performances. Poetry @ Tech Top poets from around the world gather alongside Georgia Tech's very own highly acclaimed poets to bring the art of poetry well beyond its expected audience. Distinguished Alumni Awards The College comes together for networking and an inspiring celebration of excellence. Graduate Student Advisory Board Represents and connects master's and doctoral students throughout the college. Student Advisory Board Meets biweekly to advise the college undergraduate programs on matters of recruitment and curriculum. Why Liberal Arts at Georgia Tech? Play Video Connect on Social Media Instagram ﻿﻿ ﻿﻿Facebook ﻿﻿﻿﻿ Twitter ﻿﻿ Research Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Upcoming Events Sorry, no upcoming events found. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology