Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Students Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Academic Advising How Can an Academic Advisor Help You? In the Ivan Allen College, we believe academic advising is an integral part of the educational process. Our advisors are a powerful mechanism for helping you achieve your full potential! Regular meetings with an advisor are strongly recommended for all students. Academic advising is available throughout the year, but there are some instances where academic advising is mandatory to ensure your successful progress. Academic advising is required in the following cases: First semester Freshman year First semester Transfer student Freshman receiving a mid-term “U” Undeclared Major student On Academic Probation or Review Graduating Senior (until degree petition is completed) Scheduling an Appointment is Easy! Most advisors can be scheduled through the Georgia Tech Advising Scheduler. Bring an updated copy of your curriculum checklist Have a list of questions ready If you are meeting to discuss course selection, review the available classes on OSCAR Schedule an Appointment Apply Now Visit the College Undergraduate FAQ Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Dean's Office Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Dean's Office Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Elizabeth Miller Director of Enrollment and Student Affairs Email emiller@gatech.edu Phone 404.894.0513 Office Savant Bldg 135 Shatakshee Dhongde, Ph.D. Associate Professor and Associate Dean of Academic Affairs Email shatakshee.dhongde@econ.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.1890 Office Old CE Building, Room 221 The School of Economics Undergraduate Degrees: B.S. in Economics (ECON) B.S. in Economics and International Affairs (EIA) B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages (GEML) School of Economics Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Davis Palubeski Academic Advisor Email dpalubeski3@gatech.edu Office Old CE Building Whitney Buser, Ph.D. Associate Director of Academic Programs and Academic Professional Email wbuser3@gatech.edu The School of History and Sociology Undergraduate Degrees: B.S. in History, Technology, and Society (HTS) School of History and Sociology Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Jennifer Singh, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Director of Undergraduate Studies Email jennifer.singh@hsoc.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.0535 Office Old CE Building The Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Undergraduate Degrees: B.S. in International Affairs (INTA) B.S. in International Affairs & Modern Languages (IAML) B.S. in Economics and International Affairs (EIA) B.S. + M.S. in International Affairs School of International Affairs Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Stephanie Jackson Academic Advisor for EIA, IAML, and INTA majors Email stephanie.jackson@inta.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.0342 Office Habersham 156 Mikulas Fabry, Ph.D. Director of Undergraduate Studies Email mfabry@gatech.edu Phone 404.385.6883 Office Habersham 152 The School of Literature, Media, and Communication Undergraduate Degrees: B.S. in Computational Media (CM) B.S. in Literature, Media, and Communication (LMC) B.S. + M.S. in CM or LMC and Digital Media (DM) School of Literature, Media, and Communication Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Carol Senf, Ph.D. Director of Undergraduate Studies Email carol.senf@lmc.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.7003 Office Skiles 335b JC Reilly, Ph.D. Associate Director of Undergraduate Studies Email jc.reilly@lmc.gatech.edu Phone 404.385.7546 Office Skiles 332 Wes Kirkbride Academic Advisor for CM majors and students interested in the B.S./M.S. in Digital Media Email wes.kirkbride@lmc.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.6200 Office College of Computing Building 108 Jillann Hertel, MFA LMC/CM Major Career Advising/Portfolio Review Email jillann.hertel@lmc.gatech.edu Phone 404.385.0625 Office Skiles 340 Amanda Blocker Academic Advisor for LMC Majors Email amanda.blocker@lmc.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.2841 Office Skiles 330 The School of Modern Languages Undergraduate Degrees: B.S. in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies (ALIS) B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages (GEML) B.S. in International Affairs and Modern Languages (IAML) School of Modern Languages Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Kelly Comfort, Ph.D. Director of Undergraduate Studies Email kcomfort@modlangs.gatech.edu Office Swann 224 Mirla Gonzalez, Ph.D. Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Online and Professional Education Email mgonzalez96@gatech.edu Phone 404.385.3445 Office Swann 110 The School of Public Policy Undergraduate Degrees: B.S. in Public Policy (PUBP) B.S. + M.S. in Public Policy School of Public Policy Advisors Blurb / Gallery Set Richard Barke, Ph.D. Director of Undergraduate Studies Email richard.barke@pubpolicy.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.8282 Office DM Smith 7 Pre-Graduate & Pre-Professional Advising Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology