Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Overview Our people engender the values of the College and our threefold mission of research, education, and service. We strive towards excellence in each of these endeavors, to make the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts a "jewel" in the Georgia Tech crown, and to serve as compassionate citizens. Leadership Blurb / Gallery Set College Leadership Dean and Associate Deans School Chairs Chairs of the six schools within the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts ROTC Commanders Leadership of the three Reserve Officer's Training Corps (ROTC) housed within the Ivan Allen College Faculty and Staff Blurb / Gallery Set Faculty More than one-hundred and forty tenured, tenure-track, and permanent research faculty teach and conduct boundary-breaking interdisciplinary research. Many are internationally recognized as leaders in their fields. They hold distinguished Ph.D.s. Many hold civic and academic appointments and serve on influential boards and as editors of top academic journals. Staff Staff within the College and its units are accomplished professionals who are dedicated to moving forward the goals and enterprises of the College. A number of our staff hold advanced degrees, teach, and hold fellowships. Adjunct and Affiliated Faculty, Brittain Fellows In addition to our permanent faculty, we employ a stellar roster of adjunct and affiliated faculty and instructors. Among these are professionals, academics professionals, and the Marion L. Brittain Postdoctoral Brittain Fellows who teach English and Writing and Communication. Please visit individual school websites for lists and information about Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology