Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Community Alumni and Giving Get Involved! Have fun, support your alma mater, and network with fellow alumni who live and work in Atlanta, Washington, D.C., across the nation, and around the world. Alumni activities and events are hosted by the College and by our individual schools. You can get involved in activities ranging from alumni homecoming and award events, to alumni-student mentoring, advisory boards, and more. Ways to Get Involved Blurb / Gallery Set Mentor An Undergrad Register for the Mentor Jackets Program through the Georgia Tech Alumni Association Join the Mailing List The alumni mailing list is the best way to hear about upcoming events and news. Create an Alumni Affinity Group Share your advice, energy, and know-how with fellow alumni and current students. Build Value Build value for your degree by learning how to best describe the College's strengths. Alumni Meetups and Events If you're not receiving e-vites for Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts events, please update your profile with the Georgia Tech Alumni Association via the link on their homepage. Upcoming Alumni Events Blurb / Gallery Set Distinguished Alumni Awards Spring 2021 Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Distinguished Alumni Awards Reception and Induction Ceremony. The College community comes together each year at the beautiful Historic Academy of Medicine for a fun and inspiring evening! Alumni, faculty, staff and students enjoy networking with friends old and new over wine and a delicious buffet dinner. Then we head into the auditorium to celebrate outstanding faculty, students, alumni and supporters of the College. This is a wonderful, feel good event! Contact: carol.silvers@iac.gatech.edu Annual Homecoming Mimosa Brunch for Ivan Allen Alums prior to the Game If you're not receiving e-vites for this each fall, please update your profile with the Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Contact: carol.silvers@iac.gatech.edu Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology