Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Students Student Stories A Glimpse into the Lives of Students in the Ivan Allen College Designing Programs for Global Innovation Play Video School of Modern Languages graduate student Ci Song has discovered the wealth of opportunities for collaboration and innovation that a liberal arts education at Georgia Tech can deliver. Embracing Liberal Arts at Georgia Tech Play Video Liberal arts may not be the first discipline that comes to mind when you think of Georgia Tech, but History, Technology, and Society major Lucy Groves wants everyone to know why pursuing a liberal arts degree at Tech is a smart move. Get to Know Our Dean's Scholars - Emma Browning and John Golden Play Video Each year the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts awards Dean’s Scholarships to incoming first-year students who in high school performed well academically, served as leaders among their peers, and engaged in acts of service. Once they arrive on campus, Dean’s Scholars participate in a wide variety of activities across Georgia Tech, representing the diversely talented student community that makes up the Ivan Allen College everywhere they go. Emma Browning is a second-year International Affairs major. She also works for Paper and Clay, a craft center on Georgia Tech's campus that hosts a variety of art classes for students, as well as the local community. John Golden is a first-year Economics major. He is also a member of Georgia Tech’s Debate Team. Get to Know Our Dean's Scholars - Yonatan Weinberg and Alice Barsky Play Video Each year the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts awards Dean’s Scholarships to incoming first-year students who in high school performed well academically, served as leaders among their peers, and engaged in acts of service. Once they arrive on campus, Dean’s Scholars participate in a wide variety of activities across Georgia Tech, representing the diversely talented student community that makes up the Ivan Allen College everywhere they go. Yonatan Weinberg is a second-year History, Technology, and Society major. He also works for Serve-Learn-Sustain, an organization on Georgia Tech’s campus that strives to create sustainable communities Alice Barsky is a fourth-year dual major in Public Policy and Literature, Media, and Communication. She also works for Georgia Tech Cable Network, the Institute’s on-campus television provider. Get to Know Our Dean's Scholars - Harsha Sridhar and Emma Schroer Play Video Each year the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts awards Dean’s Scholarships to incoming first-year students who in high school performed well academically, served as leaders among their peers, and engaged in acts of service. Once they arrive on campus, Dean’s Scholars participate in a wide variety of activities across Georgia Tech, representing the diversely talented student community that makes up the Ivan Allen College everywhere they go. Harsha Sridhar is a second-year dual major in International Affairs and Business. He is also the Sports Editor at Georgia Tech’s Student Newspaper, the Technique. Emma Schroer is a first-year International Affairs & Modern Languages major. She also performs with DramaTech Theatre, Georgia Tech’s student run theatre. Sound Happening Play Video Sound Happening is a collaborative music-making installation that allows people to create music by playing with colorful bouncy balls. Using an overhead webcam and the Max/MSP programming environment, Sound Happening tracks the location of each person's ball in order to manipulate and trigger various musical samples and synthesizers. The results are intriguing sound combinations that constantly change as participants play within the defined space. The project was a winner at the 2017 Clough Art Crawl at Georgia Tech. The Sound Happening Team consists of: Dan Singer (2nd Year, Master's Digital Media) Pedro Arevalo (2nd Year, Master's Digital Media) Josh Moore (2nd Year, Master's Digital Media) Agneya Kerure (1st Year, Master's Music Technology) Donghai Liu (2nd Year, Master's Digital Media) Behind the Design: TuneTable Take a behind the scenes look at some of the collaborative design process among faculty and graduate students for TuneTable, an interactive musical tabletop exhibit intended to teach basic computer programming concepts to middle and high school students. Once the final version of the table arrives at museums, visitors will be able to create musical compositions, save and email their work to themselves, and continue engaging with the code underneath their compositions at home on the EarSketch platform. The TuneTable project is co-led by Brian Magerko, an associate professor of Digital Media in the Georgia Tech Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts and the leader of the Adaptive Digital Media (ADAM) Lab, and Jason Freeman, an associate professor of Music in the College of Design. Graduate Research - Cataloging Characteristics of Renewable Energy Cooperatives A graduate student in the Ivan Allen College's School of Public Policy, Dorraine Duncan spent this past summer researching renewable energy cooperatives around the world and cataloging their characteristics to gain a better understanding of how they operate. She hopes to one day found an RE Co-op in her home country of Jamaica. She conducted her research as part of an internship program jointly run by the Enterprise Innovation Institute (EEI) and the School of Public Policy's program in Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy (STIP). Graduate Research - Predicting the Future of Water Supply & Demand in Atlanta A recent graduate of the Ivan Allen College's School of Economics M.S. program, Saudnya Patil spent her final summer as a student researching the potential impacts of changes in Atlanta's water supply and demand in the near future. She conducted her research as part of an internship program jointly run by the Enterprise Innovation Institute (EEI) and the School of Public Policy's program in Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy (STIP). Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology