Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Research Research Centers and Labs Atlanta Global Studies Center Co-Directors: Anna Stenport (GT Modern Languages) and Anthony Lemieux (GSU) Jointly directed by Georgia Institute of Technology and Georgia State University, the Atlanta Global Studies Center (AGSC) is a National Resource Center and a Foreign Language and Area Studies (FLAS) Fellowship program funded by a $2.25 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education. The interdisciplinary center focuses on research and instruction geared to college students who are underrepresented in international and advanced language studies — including science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) students; community college students; and minority, first-generation and low-income students — to serve national needs in educating these college students for careers in business, education, security and defense, and public and governmental sectors. Atlanta Global Studies Center Center for Advanced Communications Policy (CACP) Executive Director: Brad Fain CACP focuses on key issues that influence the development, implementation and adoption of cutting-edge, advanced communications technologies. Work includes assessment of policy issues and production of regulatory filings, identification of future options for innovation, and articulation of a clearer vision of the technology landscape. Center for Advanced Communications Policy Center for the Development and Application of Internet of Things Technologies (CDAIT) The Center for the Development and Application of Internet of Things Technologies (CDAIT) fosters the development of interdisciplinary Internet of Things (IoT) research and education that bridges industry partners with Georgia Tech researchers and faculty as well as other collaborators who share similar interests. CDAIT is a global, nonprofit, partner-funded center of excellence in IoT that stimulates creativity, productivity gains and revenue generation while addressing critical societal issues such as inclusivity, privacy, trust, ethics, regulation and policy. Center for the Development and Application of Internet of Things Technologies Center for Ethics and Technology (CET) Director: Michael Hoffman; Associate Directors: Robert Kirkman, Jason Borenstein, CET fosters a culture of critical inquiry and deliberation about ethical issues that arise in relation to technological systems. A special focus of the center is helping Georgia Tech and others acquire tools for recognizing, analyzing, and responding to ethical issues. Center for Ethics and Technology Center for European and Transatlantic Studies (CETS) Co-Directors: Vicki Birchfield, Alasdair Young CETS promotes research, education, and outreach programs on the European Union and transatlantic relations. The center works to foster knowledge and understanding of the European Union and the transatlantic partnership by utilizing Georgia Tech's commitment to promoting interdisciplinary programs Center for European and Transatlantic Studies ﻿Center for International Strategy, Technology, and Policy (CISTP) Co-Directors: Seymour Goodman, Adam N. Stulberg CISTP provides a collegial venue for scholars, policy analysts, scientists, technical experts, practitioners, and community leaders to explore innovative approaches to issues situated at the nexus of science, technology, and international affairs. ﻿Center for International Strategy, Technology, and Policy Center for Media Studies Director: Ian Bogost The Center for Media Studies includes both digital and computational media and extends beyond the computer to cover media in the most general sense. Center for Media Studies Center for Paper Business and Industry Studies (CPBIS) Director: Patrick McCarthy A member of the Industry Studies Association and founded by scholars affiliated with the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Industries Studies Program, CPBIS furthers understanding of business, management, organizational, and social issues of importance to the paper industry. Center for Paper Business and Industry Studies China Research Center Director: Hanchao Lu Founded in 2001, the China Research Center promotes understanding of greater China based on in-depth research and experience. Center associates are experts on greater China’s history, contemporary politics, economy, business environment, language, culture, and media and are committed to building bridges between the Southeast United States and China, Taiwan, Macao, and Hong Kong. The group publishes the journal China Currents. China Research Center Climate and Energy Policy Laboratory (CEPL) Director: Marilyn Brown, Deputy Director: Daniel Matisoff The Climate and Energy Policy Laboratory (CEPL) helps prepare students for careers addressing sustainable energy challenges. CEPL conducts research on clean energy employment; financing, information and regulatory policies to promote energy-efficiency investments; renewable energy policies and trends in the U.S. South; smart grid policies; and demand response programs. It is involved in studies of climate mitigation. Climate and Energy Policy Laboratory Communication Center (CommLab) Director: Karen Head Students from all disciplines at Georgia Tech work with tutors with expertise in core areas of communication. From tutors, students learn both conventional and innovative techniques of communication and diverse strategies for effectively conveying ideas. Communication Center (CommLab) Digital Integrative Liberal Arts Center (DILAC) Leadership: Jacqueline Royster, Janet Murray, Nassim Parvin, Brad Rittenhouse Funded by a $1 million grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Digital Integrative Liberal Arts Center (DILAC) leverages the College's strengths in digital humanities education and scholarship. It equips Georgia Tech students with the technologically advanced tools and methodologies to participate in innovation-based team learning experiences encompassing research, civic engagement, and other projects under the guidance of faculty and graduate student mentors. Digital Integrative Liberal Arts Center Ethics, Technology, and Human Interaction Center (ETHICx) Directors: Kaye Husbands Fealing and Ayanna Howard This new Center — pronounced “ethics” — will advance ethics-in-technology-centered research, education, and engagement at the Georgia Institute of Technology in collaboration with communities, government, non-governmental organizations, and industry. The Center will conduct research in ethics and emerging technologies, frame ethical questions, solutions in ethics and technology, and social justice and equity. Interdisciplinary and community-based research also will be emphasized. Educational initiatives will include investigating and designing curricula for ethics training that can be woven throughout students’ educational journeys and for employees at affiliated companies. ETHICX Health Economics Analysis Lab (HEAL) Director: Danny Hughes A $3.3 million research partnership between Georgia Institute of Technology and the American College of Radiology’s Neiman Institute, the Health Economics and Analytics Lab (HEAL) within Georgia Tech’s Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts applies big data analytics and artificial intelligence to large-scale medical claims databases — with a focus on medical imaging — to better understand how evolving health care delivery and payment models affect patients and providers. HEAL Announcement HomeLab By the year 2030, 20% of all U.S. residents will be over the age of 65. Our mission is to understand the needs and desires of this growing population and to assist innovative companies in meeting their goals by providing a direct connection to laboratory and in-home testing resources. Since 2011, HomeLab has been providing innovators with an independent testing facility capable of evaluating the safety, efficacy, effectiveness, usability, and accessibility of products that promote independent living. Our methods allow us to go beyond what is available through typical in-lab testing by placing products in the homes of actual users. By evaluating products in their appropriate context over an extended period, true performance characteristics emerge. HomeLab Intel Science and Technology Center for Social Computing (ISTC-Social) Principal Investigator: Carl DiSalvo ISTC-Social conducts foundational research into the relationship between information technology and society. Centered at UCI, it brings together interdisciplinary researchers from leading U.S. universities including experts in social media, digital culture, user interfaces, cultural computing, and participatory design. Intel Science and Technology Center for Social Computing Internet Governance Project Director: Milton Mueller The Internet Governance Project (IGP) is a leading source of analysis of global Internet policy and Internet resource management that is widely read by governments, industry, and civil society organizations. IGP both researches and analyzes global Internet policy issues and puts its expertise into practical action in the fields of global governance, Internet policy, and information and communication technology, and participates directly in Internet governance institutions. Internet Governance Project Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy Co-Lab The Innovation Co-Lab is a strategic partnership among Georgia Institute of Technology (GT), the University of Manchester (UNIMAN), and Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT). Directed by faculty in the Ivan Allen College School of Public Policy, the Co-Lab engages researchers in mutually agreed research projects, exchange, training, and other related activities in the domain of science, technology, and innovation management and policy. Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy Co-Lab Technology Policy Assessment Center (TPAC) Directors: Jan Youtie, Diana Hicks, Alan Porter, Philip Shapira TPAC is a policy research team developing ways to shape innovation for global development through future-oriented analysis of technological change centering on equity, equality, and basic needs. Technology Policy Assessment Center The James and Mary Wesley Center for New Media Education and Research Wesley Chair of New Media: Jay Bolter Established to promote the application and development of new media technologies in the areas of education, design, digital art, and culture, the Wesley Center encourages work in film, television, expression of art and literary forms — all of which are now in a cultural dialogue with new digital media. Wesley Center for New Media Education and Research Major Research Areas Featured Research Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology