Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Academics Admissions and Costs Financial Aid General Funding from the Georgia Tech Georgia Tech awards students more than $105 million in need and merit-based aid. If you are accepted, advisors in the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (OSFA) will work with you to make your degree attainable. The sections below provide an idea of funding options. General Funding Links Blurb / Gallery Set Scholarships and Grants "Gift aid" funding for students with significant financial need. They do not require repayment. Work Programs and Loans These "self-help" funding programs include the need-based Federal Work-Study (FWS) program and Education Loans. Campus Jobs & Off Campus Employers Work part-time in other units on campus, with start-ups in Georgia Tech’s Incubator, or with local companies. Undergraduate Funding from the College Financial aid within the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts includes scholarships, awards, and jobs. Ivan Allen College advisors and undergraduate coordinators are happy to help students understand and apply for these options, as well as to complete applications for prestigious non-Georgia Tech fellowships and scholarships. Undergraduate Funding Links Blurb / Gallery Set Dean's Scholarships & Internships Incoming freshman may apply for merit-based first year scholarships in the College, with the opportunity for continuation for three additional years. They may also apply for an internship with the opportunity to earn up to $2,500. School Awards Current students may be eligible for merit scholarships or awards available within their school. Dean's Office Jobs Hourly jobs for undergraduates that accept applications from students who are not part of the Federal Work-Study (FSW) program. Graduate Aid and Funding Options Most fellowships and assistantships are awarded by individual degree programs. A few graduate assistantships are offered through the College dean's office. Graduate Aid Links Blurb / Gallery Set Fellowship Opportunities Many graduate departments offer fellowships to Georgia Tech graduate students. You must be nominated for these awards by your academic department. Additional information on fellowships is available externally from GoGrad* * - Provided as a courtesy only. No endorsement of GoGrad is implied. Research and Teaching Assistantships Graduate Research Assistants (GRA) work with professors or staff to conduct research, support initiatives, and develop industry skills. Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTA) assist professors in conducting classes and labs, reviewing projects, and grading exams. GRA and GTA positions provide a 12-credit tuition waiver, along with a monthly stipend. The stipend amount varies according to the student’s academic home department. Students with GRAs or GTAs are still responsible for mandatory fees and tuition supplements. A GRA or GTA may be awarded at the time of admission, or you may inquire through your degree program director, or apply for posted opportunities on campus. It is possible to secure an assistantship prior to arriving on campus by meeting faculty during a campus visit or applying to online postings in various schools and colleges on campus. Part-time Jobs Many students take care of their expenses by working part-time jobs either on campus or at local companies. F1 students on visas can work off campus if: 1) they have been a full-time student for at least two semesters, and 2) have authorization from the Department of Homeland Security/Office of International Education (OIE) . The work must be in their field of study. F1 students can obtain authorization to work off campus as either Curricular Practical Training (CPT) or Optional Practical Training (OPT). More Georgia Tech Resources Apply for Financial Aid Hope Scholarship Work Study Harry S. Truman Scholarship Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology