Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Welcome to the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Going Beyond Income to Measure Poverty in the U.S. New LMC Chair Announced Global Development Master's Welcome to Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Georgia Tech’s Ivan Allen College provides innovative, human-centered perspectives at the intersection of humanities, social sciences, arts, and STEM. We develop leaders prepared to advance technology and improve the human condition. About the College Why Liberal Arts at Tech Visit the College A Unique Approach to Humanities and Social Sciences An education at the Ivan Allen College combines all of the advantages of a world-class technologically focused research university with some of the most innovative liberal arts experiences available today. We offer undergraduate, graduate, and accelerated degree programs in fields such as economics; public policy; international affairs; digital media; applied languages and intercultural studies; history, technology, and society; and more. Explore the unparalleled research opportunities and unique offerings in the social sciences and humanities at a top liberal arts college dedicated to a legacy of service and social justice. Prospective Students Liberal arts that prepare you to excel in a technology-driven world. We offer 16 bachelor’s degrees, among them six bachelor-master degree programs, 14 master’s degrees, and six Ph.D. programs, including innovative, professionally oriented graduate degrees in sustainability, cybersecurity policy and governance, applied languages and cultures, global media, digital media, and international affairs. Numerous minors and certificate programs also are available, including language studies; health, medicine, and society; global development; scenarios, models, and military games; energy systems; linguistics; social justice; African-American studies; and the pre-law minor in law, science, and technology. Students also have the opportunity to join one of the best Mock Trial teams in the nation. Our students develop as leaders in a culture of critical inquiry and deliberation focused on the crucial ethical issues of our age. They enter the job market with distinctive abilities to understand and solve complex problems by bridging technology, the humanities, and the social sciences. In fact, demand is booming for graduates who possess the critical inquiry, analytical, and communications skills that are a hallmark of an Ivan Allen College education. Undergraduate Master's Doctoral Apply Now Visit the college Contact Us Prospective Quick Links Blurb / Gallery Set Undergraduate Student Life A close-knit undergraduate community with students who explore endless opportunities both within the College and across campus. Graduate Studies We are one of the world's most exciting and diverse research environments. Alumni Success Learn about the careers afforded by an Ivan Allen College liberal arts degree. Student Blog Current students talk about life in the College, including academics, research, and study abroad! Life in the College Georgia Tech is a "work hard, play hard" culture. From athletics and art events to social gatherings and service projects, there are always great things happening on campus. Located in the heart of Atlanta, Georgia, the primary campus is surrounded by museums, restaurants, music venues, stadiums, and shopping districts, and is just a short drive to the mountains, lakes, and coastal towns. Student Life Links Blurb / Gallery Set Student Organizations There are over 450 student organizations and 50 Greek organizations that provide continuous fuel for our students' social lives. Athletics Go Jackets! Cheer on your team at the beautiful Bobby Dodd Stadium or participate in any number of intramural sports available at the Campus Rescreation Center. Our Community We're a tightly-knit small college with the boundless opportunities of a leading research institution. Enjoy the best of both worlds! Alumni Success Stories Join an alumni network 5,500 strong and growing. When you graduate from the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts, you become part of a worldwide network of alumni residing in more than 50 countries. Our alumni are known for their complex problem-solving skills, ability to bridge the technical and non-technical realms, and savviness in science and technology. Featured Alumni Profiles Blurb / Gallery Set Adam Le Doux B.S. in Computational Media Program Manager at Microsoft Mingge Wu M.S. and Ph.D. in Economics Senior Statistician at Intercontinental Hotels Group Doug Hooker M.S. Science and Technology Policy Executive Director of the Atlanta Regional Commission Read More Alumni Success Stories Current Students Our students are studious, professional, global, and much more. With classes, travel, research, and work experiences, Ivan Allen College students never stop. A vast majority of our students graduate with international experience or internships under their belts. Our students are also regular recipients of research awards for work in over 30 areas of inquiry. Student Resources Graduate Profiles Current Student Quick Links Blurb / Gallery Set International Experience 70% of our student graduate with international experience! Will you be one of them? Co-ops and Internships Our students are at an advantage when applying for internships and jobs over the peers from other liberal arts schools! Research Georgia Tech is a top-tier research university, with countless opportunities for students to engage in research with industry leaders. Featured Story ‘In the Middle of War, He is Asking for Poems’ — LMC’s Ilya Kaminsky on the War in Ukraine Recent College News Ivan Allen College Instructors Named to 2022 CIOS Honor Roll LMC Course Designs Memorial for Tech Tower White Oak Sixth Annual Global Media Festival Showcases Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions View All Recent News and Events College in the News Putin Propagates State Terror as a National Tradition Published in: n-tv Read the Article in n-tv Hostile Architecture: The Blurring Line Between Public and Private Space Published in: TBR News Media Read the Article in TBR News Media China's Children of the 70s Come to the Fore as Next Generation of Leaders Starts to Emerge Published in: South China Morning Post Read the Article in South China Morning Post College Newsletter Current Newsletter Issue Subscribe to the Newsletter Upcoming Events Sorry, no upcoming events found. Georgia Tech Ivan Allen College Proudly celebrating more than 130 years of liberal arts at Georgia Tech. Check out our story. Be a part of it. Alumni Stories Make a Gift Get Involved Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology