Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Research Featured Graduate Research 2019 Career Research Innovation Development Conference (CRIDC) The Career Research Innovation Development Conference (CRIDC), held each spring by the Georgia Tech Student Government Association, features a paper conference for graduate students in the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts. Papers submitted to this competition highlight the diverse array of individual research conducted by master's and doctoral students. Graduate Conference and Essay Awards Website Presenters from the 2019 CRIDC Discuss Their Research Royce Collins Graduate Student (History and Sociology) "In my paper I explore the technology of our national highway system. Major construction funding and infrastructure expansion for the present day national highway system was initially created by the Federal - Aid Highway Act of 1956 under the Eisenhower Administration. I discuss the initial purpose for the national highway project along with the implications of discriminatory politics in its design and construction... The research suggests that the present day expansion projects of the interstate system are further destroying African-American communities that are still raged by the effects of decades long divested resources due to the national highway system. I introduce the interdisciplinary concept ofBlack Urbanism as an attempt to correct the errors of the past and preserve the history of African American communities for the future." Suon Choi Ph.D. Student (Nunn School) "Despite the rapid growth of the use of drones, unmanned aerial vehicles, in various fields of study, there has been no study completed that used a rigorous metadata analysis and synthesized research studies to review the overall scene on the topic. My project aims to analyze the development of the drone technology using 11,830 drone research publications and citation data from the year 1963 to 2019. By investigating the publications from 108 countries, 5,126 organizations, and 26,508 authors, and 183 fields of study, this research offers a more holistic approach to the topic of coverage on drones." Alyssa Rumsey Ph.D. Student (Digital Media) "The Internet of Things has expanded the reach of technology to new workplace settings raising questions about what the future of work looks like for industries including manufacturing, construction and emergency response. To understand how the use of new digital technology transforms the types of work people do, we studied the implementation of a wearable device into two fire departments in the Southeastern US. Our findings will help shape how we design technology for the next generation workforce." Daniel Schiff Ph.D. Student (Public Policy) "My research evaluates the social and policy implications of artificial intelligence in education (AIEd) through analogy with digital distance education. I explore sociotechnical risks and possibilities associated with intelligent tutoring systems (ITS) and educational agents, and offer recommendations for developers to engage in socially responsible research as AIEd increasingly affects real-world educational environments." Tony Harding Ph.D. Student (Economics) "Our paper estimates the impact of improved street lighting on crime rates in the city of Los Angeles. We estimate that the conversion of the city’s existing street light inventory to LED lighting technology explains around 30% of the reduction in nighttime property crimes between 2009-2015." Spring 2018 GVU Center and Digital Media Research Showcase From ancient Chinese fairy tales to a jailbreak set in the galaxy far, far away, students in Digital Media presented a variety of projects in virtual reality, interactive media, and more at the 2018 GVU Center and Digital Media Research Showcase. Read on for descriptions of several of our student projects and meet their creators. Visit the 2018 GVU Center and Digital Media Showcase Came From Nothing Georgia Tech Student Film Tells Inspiring Story of a Life in Sweet Auburn The collaboration between Digital Media master’s student Nick Tippens and History, Technology, and Society major Ali Yildirim culminated in the feature-length documentary Came from Nothing: The Story of Benjamin ‘Big Mouth Ben’ Graham. The documentary chronicles Sweet Auburn resident Benjamin ‘Big Mouth Ben’ Graham’s journey from addiction and homelessness, to a career as an entertainer and small business owner. Came From Nothing Documentary More About the 'Came From Nothing' Project Came From Nothing | Trailer Play Video Sound Happening Collaborative Music Making Installation Sound Happening allows people to create music by playing with colorful bouncy balls. Using an overhead webcam and the Max/MSP programming environment, Sound Happening tracks the location of each person's ball in order to manipulate and trigger various musical samples and synthesizers. The results are intriguing sound combinations that constantly change as participants play ball within the defined space. The project was a winner at the 2017 Clough Art Crawl at Georgia Tech. The Sound Happening design team began work on the installation during the Spring 2016 semester in Brian Magerko’s Adaptive Digital Media (ADAM) Lab Project Studio course, and has continued developing it as part of Magerko's Spring 2017 Tech Arts Practicum course. More About the Sound Happening Project "Sound Happening Installation Wins at Georgia Tech Art Crawl Play Video Enterprise Innovation Institute Fresh Perspectives on Economic Development in Georgia August 30, 2016 The Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2) at Georgia Tech, in partnership with our School of Public Policy's program in Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy (STIP) hosted a presentation event for three Ivan Allen College students who took part in research internships at EI2 during the summer of 2016. Among the Atlanta leaders in economic development and policy-makers who attended were three who had served as judges for the internship applications judges: Glen Whitley, Director of the Centers of Innovation for Information Technology, Georgia Department of Economic Development; Stan Vangilder, Program Manager, Southern Company Energy Innovation Center; and Carrie Barnes, Community Development Consultant, Georgia Electric Membership Cooperatives. Following are summaries from the students' research: Enterprise Innovation Institute Student Research Blurb / Gallery Set Saudnya Patil (ECON) I was trying to figure out whether this image of Atlanta as an aggressive user of water is true or false. Saudnya Patil recently graduated from Georgia Tech's Ivan Allen College with an M.S. degree in economics. The aim of her project was to provide a data-centered model to address economic development concerns, real or perceived, about Metro Atlanta’s water issues. She amassed multi-year data on population, weather, and water usage and built an econometric model to forecast water demand in the region. The model formed the basis for providing an improved understanding of how sensitive the Metro Atlanta basin’s future water needs might be to extremes in growth and weather conditions. Dorraine Duncan (PubP and CRP) I found it interesting that so many renewable energy co-ops leveraged community institutions to grow their membership and raise funds. Dorraine Duncan is a master's student at Georgia Tech, pursuing a dual degree in Public Policy and City and Regional Planning. She assembled a database of renewable energy co-ops around the world, cataloged their characteristics and completed a meta-analysis directed at understanding their potential for economic development. Unlike traditional electricity cooperatives common in rural Georgia, her research was limited to community-led initiatives focused solely on the provision of renewable energy. Renee Shelby (HSOC) I was thinking about how to resolve employment problems for groups who are normally marginalized, particularly in rural areas of Georgia. Renee Shelby is a Ph.D. student at Georgia Tech in the Ivan Allen College School of History and Sociology. Her project centered on case studies of four distinct models of peer-to-peer transit that have direct implications for developing and leveraging rural-specific transit apps for economic development. These case studies were drawn from her dataset of the individual app functionality and characteristics of U.S. active and failed peer-to-peer transit apps. She created this dataset from reviews of technology and trade journals, interviews with founders and stakeholders of ride hailing apps, and appraisals of app user activity. Graduate Research Contacts Blurb / Gallery Set Carol Colatrella Professor & Associate Dean for Graduate Studies and Faculty Development; Co-Director, WST Center Email carol.colatrella@lmc.gatech.edu Phone 404.894.1241 Janet Murray Professor and Associate Dean for Research and Faculty Affairs Email jmurray@gatech.edu Phone 404.894.6202 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology