Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Students Visit the College Want to learn how the humanities and social sciences are explored at a world-renowned research university? Visiting campus is an exciting way to experience the College atmosphere first-hand and get a glimpse of what it is like to be a Georgia Tech student. We encourage you to explore upcoming Ivan Allen College events and take a step onto our beautiful campus! Explore the options below to learn how you can interact with us. If you have any questions, please contact Elizabeth Miller, emiller@gatech.edu. Take a Tour Visiting the College lets you gain a sense of what it's really like to study here and be part of our community. The Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts is pleased to offer tours and information sessions every other week throughout the year. Special group tours can also be set up by contacting Elizabeth Miller (404.894.0513). Tours are led by our knowledgeable Ivan Allen College student ambassadors. Prospective students and parents will have the opportunity to meet current students, visit academic buildings, and enjoy a vibrant, up-close look of our six schools. In addition to one virtual session during the semester, our in-person sessions take place in the Stephen C. Hall building on Bobby Dodd Way in the heart of campus. In-Person Information Sessions & Tours (All held in Stephen C. Hall 102) - Register here. Monday, June 6th, 3:30-5:00pm Wednesday, June 22nd, 11:00am-12:30pm Friday, July 1st, 3:30-5:00pm Monday, July 25th, 1:30-3:00pm Wednesday, August 17th, 11:00am-12:30pm IAC Webinars (All held via Zoom) - Register here. Friday, May 20th, 12:00-1:00pm Tuesday, June 28th, 6:00-7:00pm Monday, August 8th, 10:00-11:00am Please note: Our tour and info session is for the Ivan Allen College with a larger focus on the undergraduate experience, but prospective graduate students are most welcome to participate. If you are interested in learning about admissions, housing, and Georgia Tech in general, we encourage you to supplement your visit with a Georgia Tech Undergraduate Admission Info Session, as well. If you are a prospective graduate student, we strongly recommend you arrange a meeting with your intended department to supplement our info session and tour and to gain the most relevant information. Register for a Tour Shadow Day Friday, January 28th and Friday, April 8th, 2022 Shadow Day is an opportunity for prospective juniors and seniors to test their fit as a Liberal Arts student at Georgia Tech. This event has been such a success that the College has made Shadow Day an annual event. It is produced by Elizabeth Miller, Director of Enrollment and Student Affairs, and the Ivan Allen Student Ambassadors. We want to emphasize that there is no other program like Shadow Day at Georgia Tech. While there are other visitation programs offered, the Shadow Day event is unique. Our focus is about providing you an inside look into your major and life as a Liberal Arts student at Georgia Tech. The entire day you will be surrounded by Liberal Arts students, faculty, and staff eager to answer your questions and to make your visit as productive and worthwhile as possible. If you are traveling from out-of-state and want more than a day's worth of activities, call us and we can work with you to plan a schedule. Registration and Website Speak to a Student Get to know our amazing Ivan Allen College Ambassadors or ask them questions about their majors, minors, or activities. General Georgia Tech Tours Financial Aid Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology