Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Students Undergraduate Students Student Life A Diverse, Exciting Blend of Brilliant and Creative Minds. Ivan Allen students are bookworms, gamers, philanthropists, bleeding hearts, policy buffs, culture lovers, filmmakers, news hounds, digital masterminds, peace keepers, researchers, and problem solvers. They are fueled by a perpetual need to explore and understand the past, present, and future of the world in which we live. We are explorers by nature, led by an enduring sense of curiosity and passion to explore the human condition and imagine the future. We are innovators at the crossroads of humanities, social sciences, and technology. And we come to Ivan Allen College with this inherent drive because we recognize an environment of similarly driven students, faculty, and staff, and we understand the boundless opportunity to thrive at Georgia Tech. Jamie, Alumni IAML 2012 18 Countries from which our undergraduate students hail 678 Enrollment (Fall, 2017) 54:46 Female-to-Male Ratio Ivan Allen College Student Ambassadors As liaisons between the college and the world, ambassadors engage in activities to communicate our mission and culture, strengthen our traditions, and encourage lifelong involvement with our college. The Student Advisory Board Board members represent the voice and needs of our liberal arts students. The board advises our administrators, builds community, and hosts college-wide events. Model United Nations (UN) Our Model UN team is ranked nationally and regularly competes at universities and the National Model UN in New York. Students in any academic discipline are invited to join the team. Sci Fi Lab Invades WREK Radio every Thursday at 7 PM on 91.1FM to discuss all the best in Science Fiction, from movies, television, and games to literary and scientific research. ROTC Students accepted into ROTC earn more than just money for a college degree. Cadets and midshipmen receive training and experience in the one quality which is always in great demand: leadership. VGDev The video game development club welcomes programmers, artists, level designers, composers, and writers. Beginners and active developers are welcome! Get resources, structure, visibility, and networking experience. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology