Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty Development Mentor Program One of the ways the College supports faculty development is a mentoring program that connects faculty seeking mentors with faculty mentors from schools across the College. Guidance from a faculty mentor in the College can be invaluable for gaining perspective on navigating promotion and tenure, administrative requirements, research, and teaching within one’s school, the College, and Georgia Tech. A mentor relationship affords opportunities for long-lasting, mutually rewarding academic connections across disciplinary and school lines. Mentorship also carries the potential for producing new research connections and interdisciplinary collaborations. Find a Mentor The opportunity to seek a faculty development mentor is open to all tenure-track and tenured faculty and visiting assistant professors. Faculty development mentors can be identified by the person-to-person icon (at left) that appears on their profile on the College and school websites. You may reach out to them directly to inquire about their availability to work with you. Volunteer as a Mentor Faculty mentorship within the College is open to all faculty members. Mentoring allows you to share your insights and experience with other faculty members and can foster career-spanning relationships in the areas of research, teaching, and public engagement. New cross-disciplinary program and research collaborations and connections can develop. To volunteer as a faculty development mentor within the College, simply check the appropriate box in your faculty profile. Doing so will trigger the mentor icon (at left) appear on your profile on your school and the College websites. Faculty who are interested in being mentored by you will approach you directly. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology