Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home News and Events New Literature, Media, and Communication School Chair Announced Kelly Ritter Posted May 23, 2022 Kelly Ritter has been selected to serve as the chair of the School of Literature, Media, and Communication in the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts effective August 1, 2022. Melissa Ianetta, Executive Director of Writing and Communication and Class of 1934 Professor of Communication, will continue to serve as interim chair until July 31, 2022. Effective immediately, Ritter will work closely with Ianetta to ensure a smooth transition of school leadership. “I am thrilled to have Dr. Ritter join the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts. She is a true leader. Together with the faculty, staff and students in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication, Dr. Ritter will advance the exceptional writing, critical thinking, media, and arts programs that collaborate broadly across Georgia Tech,” said Dean Kaye Husbands Fealing. Ritter is an LAS Alumni Distinguished Professorial Scholar, Professor of English and Writing Studies, and Interim Head of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. She was previously Associate Dean of Liberal Arts and Sciences (2017-2021), Provost Fellow for Undergraduate Education (2016-2017), Interim Director of the Center for Writing Studies (2014-2015), and Director of the Undergraduate Rhetoric Program (2013-2017). She was also a 2018-2019 Faculty Fellow in the Big Ten Academic Alliance Leadership Program. Before joining the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign faculty in 2013, she served as faculty director of the first-year writing programs at the University of North Carolina Greensboro and Southern Connecticut State University. Ritter’s scholarship focuses on archival histories of U.S. writing programs and pedagogies, and cultural-historical conceptions of social class and literacy education. Her books are “Before Shaughnessy: Basic Writing at Yale and Harvard, 1920-1960” (NCTE/SIU Press, 2009), “Who Owns School? Authority, Students, and Online Discourse (Hampton Press, 2010), To Know Her Own History: Writing at the Woman's College, 1943-1963” (U of Pittsburgh Press, 2012) and “Reframing the Subject: Postwar Instructional Film and Class-Conscious Literacies” (U of Pittsburgh Press, 2015). She is also the author of numerous articles and chapters, and editor or co-editor of four collections, including the forthcoming Beyond Fitting In: Rethinking First-Generation Writing and Literacy Education (Modern Language Association, 2023). She is past editor (2012-2017) of College English, a flagship journal of the National Council of Teachers of English. Ritter received her PhD in English from the University of Illinois-Chicago, her MFA in Creative Writing from the Iowa Writers’ Workshop, and her BA in English and Communication Studies from the University of Iowa. Contact For More Information Kelly Petty Communications Officer kelly.petty@iac.gatech.edu Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology