Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Minors Students pursue minor and/or certificate programs to broaden knowledge of non-major disciplines, develop skills around an area of interest, and expand potential for success in their chosen endeavors. Most minor programs require 15 hours of course work with at least 12 hours at the 3000 level or higher. Consult an advisor in the school offering the minor to plan appropriate courses and ensure that you meet all requirements. Minors are posted on your final transcript. Available Minors East Asian Studies This program is for students interested in expanding their knowledge about content including the history, politics, economics, languages, media, cinema, and literatures related to East Asia. Economics This minor program provides a general acquaintance with economic thought and is valuable for students considering graduate work in law or business administration. Energy Systems This minor prepares students to work in the lucrative field of energy, given the continuous increase in the demand for energy and the interest in non-conventional energy sources. Film and Media Studies The Film and Media Studies Minor, which offers students the opportunity to gain an in-depth knowledge of film and media through concentrated study in courses offered by three schools. Global Development This minor will prepare students to be catalysts for improving the lives of the world’s vulnerable communities in a sustainable manner. It will combine engineering, technology, and design with the social sciences and humanities to solve practical problems in the developing world. Students will learn and apply analytical skills and practical problem-solving techniques, gain technical competence, become conscious of variations in local cultures and social conditions, and master the ability to collaborate across disciplines to solve problems in Global Development. Health, Medicine, and Society The HMS minor is intended for all students interested in issues surrounding the social, cultural, and historical aspects of health and medicine. The minor is open to anyone, but is particularly recommended for students interested in health or medicine professions. History For students who want to broaden their educations, the study of history provides a context for understanding the world and develops analytical abilities, verbal and written communications skills, and the critical thinking that is the bedrock of active citizenship. It is also good preparation for a broad array of careers, including business, education, government, and law. International Affairs The minor in International Affairs is especially useful for students preparing for graduate school or careers in internationally oriented fields. Completing a minor in international affairs signals to a prospective employer or graduate admissions committee that you have acquired a significant amount of knowledge about international affairs. International Business, Language, and Culture The School of Modern Languages and the Scheller College of Business offer an interdisciplinary minor in “International Business, Language, and Culture” (ILBC). The minor is comprised of both advanced management courses and advanced courses in a foreign language, and is designed to prepare students for global leadership by equipping students with the fundamentals of business and the ability to communicate across different languages. Language: Chinese This program is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in Chinese and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture Language: French This program is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in French and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture. Language: German This program is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in German and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture. Language: Japanese This program is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in Japanese and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture Language: Korean This program is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in Korean and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture Language: Russian This program is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in Russian and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture. Language: Spanish This program is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in Spanish and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture Law, Science, and Technology The pre-law minor allows undergraduate students to take up core courses in Constitutional Issues, Judicial Process, Legal Practice and several electives. Leadership Studies The minor in Leadership Studies is designed to provide students with in-depth knowledge of leadership theory, skills, and experience through a rigorous and multi-disciplinary program of study. Middle Eastern and North African Studies The Schools of Modern Language, History and Sociology, and International Affairs offer a minor in Middle Eastern and North African Studies (MENAS). This interdisciplinary minor connects studies of the regions and countries in the Middle East and/or North Africa—their languages, their cultures, and their peoples, both concurrently in their national and international relationships as well as longitudinally over the course of history. This minor is designed for undergraduates who will enter a wide range of careers that can lead directly or indirectly to interactions with the people, the social organizations and businesses, and governments of the Middle East and/or North Africa, both abroad and here in the U.S., especially in terms of the critical technological, social, and policy decisions facing the world today. Philosophy of Science and Technology This minor is designed to improves student's abilities to think and communicate, to acquire a breadth of understanding about the world, science, society, and themselves that can inform their judgment. Political Science Taught within the School of Public Policy and the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs, the minor in political science is intended to broaden students’ perceptions of political processes and governmental institutions. Public Policy A minor in public policy helps students learn about strategic decision-making processes and to think critically in situations with multiple participants. Science Fiction Studies The Science Fiction Studies (SFS) minor is for students who are interested in learning how people communicate the experience of science and technology across centuries, continents, and cultures. The SFS minor enhances students’ ability to engage with issues of science, technology, and society as they are represented in the premiere story form of an increasingly technological and global world. It also enables them to better develop the analytic skills and creative mindsets that are crucial for graduate school and for advancements in careers ranging from education to engineering. Science, Technology, and Society The study of Science, Technology, and Society will provide a context for understanding how science and technology fits within our social world, past and present. It offers students a better understanding of how science and technology develop and change, how they are represented and understood in culture, and how various social and historical contexts shape science and technology Social Justice The minor in Social Justice (SJ) is for undergraduate students who are interested in incorporating an in-depth awareness of social issues into their fields of study and careers. Humanities and social science classes included in the minor address issues of equity and inclusiveness in relation to historical, cultural, social, economic, political, and/or techno-scientific factors. Students develop the analytic skills, social understanding, and creative mindsets needed to become informed, ethical, and innovative problem solvers and leaders in an increasingly global and technological world. Sociology The study of sociology develops analytical abilities, verbal and written communication skills, and invaluable critical tools for understanding the contemporary world. Sociology is good preparation for a broad array of careers, including business, education, public administration, and social work. Sports, Society, and Technology The Sports, Society, and Technology minor draws upon the interdisciplinary field of sports studies and is appealing to undergraduate students interested in the critical, holistic study of sport. The minor includes coursework from such diverse areas as architecture, international studies, applied physiology, business law, economics, history, and sociology Women, Science, and Technology The Women, Science, and Technology (WST) program does what no other gender studies program does: it links science and technology issues to those issues more traditionally associated with women's studies. The WST minor prepares Tech students (women and men majoring in engineering, science, social sciences, and humanities) to live and work in an increasingly diverse world. The minor helps students develop their understanding of the human side of science and engineering involving not only gender issues, but inequalities of race and class as well. The Georgia Institute of Technology is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, telephone 404-679-4500, http://www.sacscoc.org for questions about the accreditation of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology