Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Academics Graduate Programs Masters Programs Ivan Allen College master's degrees denote professional skills for industry, government, and non-profit organizations. We maintain a small number of students in each program to facilitate close student-mentor relationships. Faculty and advisors are available to discuss your interests and help find the right program for you. Ivan Allen degree programs offer an exciting intellectual environment where students define themselves, their work and their future. Masters Majors M.S. in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies The Master of Science in Applied Language and Intercultural Studies (MS-ALIS), offered by the School of Modern Languages, is one of the first professional master’s degrees in foreign language and cultural studies in the United States. It emphasizes the real-world professional applications of language for a wide range of career paths, from communications and non-profit to business, engineering, and medicine. In addition to rigorous training in advanced-level language and cross-cultural communication, students have the opportunity to go abroad to study, do research, and complete for-credit internships. Students graduate with a professional portfolio in the language of concentration, positioning them to pursue a range of internationally oriented career paths. M.S. in Digital Media Since its inception, the program has been a pacesetter for professional education in information design and raised the level of professional practice. The program at Georgia Tech offers arts and humanities-based advanced study in digital media design and critique. It is aimed at providing a principle-based education that will guide its graduates over the course of their careers in a rapidly changing technical environment. Because of its technical and disciplinary diversity, the Digital Media program can offer students both the practical skills and the theoretical foundations they need to assume leadership roles as designers, producers, and critical analysts of digital media. M.S. in Economics Grounded in applied economic theory and econometrics, this is a three-semester program that prepares students for professional careers in the private and public sectors as well as for more advanced training in economics doctoral programs. The program is particularly well-suited to those interested in industrial organization, technology, innovation, international trade, and economic development. M.S. in Global Media and Cultures The interdisciplinary Master of Science in Global Media and Cultures (MS-GMC) is a joint degree from the School of Modern Languages and the School of Literature, Media, and Communication. It prepares students to pursue professional careers that require advanced training in communication and media as well as expertise in a particular linguistic region of the world. The curriculum provides a theoretical grounding in media and cultural studies, advanced training in a critical global language, and hands-on cross-cultural experience that prepares students for the professional world. M.S. in History and Sociology of Technology and Science The History and Sociology of Technology and Science master's degree program appeals to a broad range of students and professionals. Those with technical backgrounds are exposed to broad socio-historical perspectives on science and technology, while those with backgrounds in the humanities and social sciences develop an aptitude for tackling scientific and technical questions. All students gain skills in social analysis and in oral and written communication, which serve to enhance employment opportunities in a variety of occupations. M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction Established in 1997, the Master of Science in Human Computer Interaction offers an empirical approach to digital design. This interdisciplinary, collaborative program is a cooperative effort of the School of Literature, Media, and Communication; the College of Computing; the School of Psychology; and the School of Industrial Design. Coordinated and administered through Georgia Tech's Graphics, Visualization and Usability Center, the program provides students with the practical, interdisciplinary skills and theoretical understanding they will need to become leaders in the design, implementation, and evaluation of the computer interfaces of the future. It was the first such program in Georgia, and one of a small but growing number internationally. M.S. in International Affairs The Master of Science in International Affairs program provides the theoretical and methodological skills to demystify the major issues confronting the world today. Students have the opportunity to tailor the program to their individual interests through elective offerings in the School and interdisciplinary work in economics, management, public policy, computer science, engineering, and other fields. We encourage internships that provide relevant work experience and participation in overseas programs. M.S. in International Security (1-year customizable) The single-year MSIS offers conceptual foundations and practical policy analysis of issues related to international security. Students will be exposed to issues related to energy, the environment, information and communication technologies, space policy, disruptive technologies, intelligence, arms control, and other contemporary issues. These substantive areas reflect ongoing, evolving, and emerging technological trends and increasing concerns about a globalizing international environment and the ability to address emerging technological and political challenges. M.S. in Public Policy The Master of Science in Public Policy is designed for students who enjoy integrating theory and practice, bringing together knowledge from professional and scientific fields with an awareness of how knowledge should be used. M.S. in Public Policy - Cybersecurity Policy (Interdisciplinary) Cybersecurity is no longer just a computer programmer's problem, it touches multiple disciplines, careers, and nearly all aspects of society — from public policy to energy management to product design. There is an urgent need for 1.5 million cybersecurity professionals who can solve a multitude of challenges. The Master of Science in Cybersecurity (Policy) is one of three tracks of study at Georgia Tech. The arrow below takes you to the overall degree description. M.S. in Public Policy - Cybersecurity Policy (Interdisciplinary) – Online The Policy track of the Online Master of Science in Cybersecurity covers communications, information, and public policies that are important to keeping cyber systems secure. Online Cybersecurity Policy program details and applications are available through the Georgia Tech Professional Education website M.S. in Public Policy - Sustainability Energy and Environmental Management (Interdisciplinary) The Sustainable Energy and Environmental Management curriculum is a multidisciplinary program with courses taught in schools across the Georgia Tech campus. These include Public Policy, Business, Industrial and Systems Engineering, City and Regional Planning, Civil and Environmental Engineering, and Economics among others. The program features a flexible 30 credit format, with part time, on-campus, and distance learning options M.S. in Public Policy - Sustainability Energy and Environmental Management (Interdisciplinary) – Online The Sustainable Energy and Environmental Management curriculum is a multidisciplinary program with courses taught in schools across the Georgia Tech campus. These include Public Policy, Business, Industrial and Systems Engineering, City and Regional Planning, Civil and Environmental Engineering, and Economics among others. The program features a flexible 30 credit format, with part time, on-campus, and distance learning options. M.S. in Public Policy and City and Regional Planning (Dual Degree) The dual MS degree program in Public Policy and City and Regional Planning prepares students for policy analysis and planning work at the national, state, and local levels. Graduates work in public, private, and non-profit settings building on the complementary perspectives and skills of the two professions. The Georgia Institute of Technology is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, telephone 404-679-4500, http://www.sacscoc.org for questions about the accreditation of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology