Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Research Global, Interdisciplinary Research Ivan Allen College faculty and students are expanding the research horizons of the liberal arts through interdisciplinary collaborations with diverse teams of humanists, social scientists, scientists, and engineers from academia, business, and government. College researchers are leaders in understanding how the practices of science and technology shape and are shaped by their social and cultural contexts. Research on a Broad Range of Social and Cultural issues. Ivan Allen College faculty, research faculty, and students work in over 30 areas of inquiry exploring local and global social and humanistic issues including: energy & environment, international trade, nanotechnology, health & biomedicine, urban infrastructure, governance, security, narrative culture, future media, and sports. Collaborative, Interdisciplinary Research Major Research Areas The College is home to one of the nation's largest concentrations of researchers of science, medicine, technology, and engineering. Our researchers explore issues like the political and cultural influences on the development of indigenous drugs and the role of scientific creativity in international economic development. Historians and sociologists who put science, medicine, and technology in context Humanist scholars and designers creating new traditions of practice in digital media Cultural scholars who interrogate the impact of science, medicine, and technology Philosophers who analyze the ethical implications of science and technology Scientists and social scientists who analyze the policy and security implications of various technologies and innovations. A Commitment to Student Research As a center for new discoveries in the liberal arts, Ivan Allen College offers a wealth of opportunities for undergraduate and graduate student research. Research conducted as a student at Georgia Tech is a substantial experience with potential to advance knowledge in a field. A highlight for many students is the one-to-one mentoring by faculty who are engaged in cutting-edge research in the social sciences and humanities. Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Diverse Sources of Funding Situated at the convergence of science, technology, the humanities, and social science, the Ivan Allen College's research has been sponsored from a wide array of funding sources. Some of the past sources include: Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Carnegie Foundation Carnegie Mellon Institute Department of Energy (DOE) Energy Foundation European Commission John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) National Institutes of Health (NIH) National Science Foundation (NSF) National Aeronautics and Space Administration Contact Aaron Levine Associate Dean for Research Related Pages Blurb / Gallery Set Featured Research Explore some of the innovative research currently being conducted in the College. Research Centers The College is host to 15 Research Centers conducting cutting-edge research in the domains of media, policy, energy, ethics, and more. Lectures, Seminars, and Conferences The College and its schools offer a robust schedule of lectures, seminars, workshops, and conferences throughout the academic year. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology