Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Students Undergraduate Students Careers for Undergraduates A Degree from Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Opens Doors. With a firm grounding in critical analysis and technology, our graduates have a diverse range of career options and unique skill sets. They enter positions with private companies, government agencies, and non-profit organizations in fields such as economic development, education, financial advising, human resources, marketing, multimedia design, policy analysis, political consulting, public relations, and many more. $56,978 Average reported starting salary of Ivan Allen undergraduate alumni for 2015-2016 The Computational Media program at Georgia Tech is continually evolving its curriculum to ensure students are prepared for industry upon graduation. Zynga has benefited from hiring graduates of their well-rounded program. – Zynga, Social Game Company We Help Prepare You for Success in the Job Market The Ivan Allen College assists students in building an educational resume that supports your individual career goals. We help you explore the possibilities in your fields of study, gain confidence, and network effectively. Support ranges from Georgia Tech’s Center for Career Discovery and Development—which works with students on internships and co-op placements; pre-professional programs in teaching, medicine, law, and dentistry; portfolio and careers courses; weekly workshops; and campus visits by Fortune 500 companies. Our advisors will help you focus on the critical skills and programs that will support you in your journey to becoming successful professionals. Where to Find Our Graduates Accenture Apple AT&T Booz Allen Hamilton Carter Center CDC Deloitte Delta Air Lines Department of Defense Department of Justice Federal Reserve of Atlanta Google IBM Microsoft NNSA National Park Service SapientNitro Teach for America The Coca-Cola Company ThoughWorks Turner Broadcasting State Department Yahoo Zynga What Can I Do With My Major? A degree from the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts opens doors to a variety of careers in a range of fields. Graduates can begin career paths in both the private and public sectors, education, government and non-profit. Click a link below to find out what career options are available for your major. Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies Computational Media Economics Economics and International Affairs Global Economics and Modern Languages History, Technology, and Society International Affairs International Affairs and Modern Languages Literature, Media, and Communication Public Policy Pre-Professional Programs Are Offered Georgia Tech also offers active programs for students interested in preparing for further educational opportunities in dentistry, law, medicine, and teaching. Each program has pre-professional advisors to assist you in selecting a program of study that best fits your interests. While you pursue your major, you also take courses that prepare you for entrance into the professional school of your choice. Many of these courses may also satisfy requirements for your major. Given the rigorous preparation they receive at Tech, our students enjoy high acceptance rates to the nation’s most prestigious graduate programs in all disciplines. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology