Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Students Undergraduate Students Student to Student: Words of Wisdom for Incoming Students The first year is perhaps the toughest. Here, past and present students reflect on their first year in Georgia Tech Ivan Allen College and share words of wisdom for incoming students. Find more reflections and student to student advise in our Alumni Success Stories and Student Profiles. “There's a learning curve. Not on your math test or that English portfolio, but for the year as a whole. Freshman year pushes you to grow in more ways that anticipated, so go easy on yourself! You're not going to have it figured out all at once. It takes time to create your new life. So when you fail that first test, and then don't do too hot on the second one either, remember it's a learning curve. When you spend 20 minutes trying to figure out how the laundry machines work, remember. When you get lost on campus, miss your pets at home, or get locked out of your dorm, remember. When you finally figure out that food trucks take your BuzzCard or that the third floor of the Clough Undergraduate Learning Commons has an ice cream vending machine, you're finally catching up to the curve. So take pride in the both the victories and the failures because both represent your growth. Freshman year is exciting, frustrating, freeing, overwhelming, constantly changing, and overall really quite remarkable. Enjoy it!” - Emily Bunker (Literature, Media, and Communication) Hometown: Peachtree City, Georgia “If anyone would have given me some words of wisdom at the beginning of my freshman year, I would have loved to hear someone tell me that college will definitely compel you to expand your mind and broaden your horizons. I've transformed so much this past year both physically and mentally, but I wish I hadn't fought my transformation as much as I did in the beginning of the year. I thought I would have the same types of friends, style, taste in music, and that not much would change about me, but I couldn't have been more wrong. I've stepped out of my comfort zone far more than I ever saw myself doing and I've loved every second of it. So try new things, and don't be afraid to be different from who you have been in the past. College is the best chance for new beginnings!” - Janelle Owusu (Public Policy) Hometown: Buford, Georgia “The most important thing I learned freshman year was how to love being me. For freshmen, my biggest piece of advice is to get involved in an activity you love doing on campus, whether that means continuing something you did before college or picking up a whole new hobby or skill. College becomes infinitely easier when you have a community of like-minded individuals to help you out and pick you up when you get knocked down.” - Will Thomas (Economics and International Affairs) Hometown: Peachtree Corners, Georgia “I think my most important takeaway from freshman year is to keep an open mind and not take things so seriously. I came into this year thinking that college was all about academics, and that couldn't be further from the truth. Although academics and grades are definitely crucial to your success at Georgia Tech, I think what makes the entirety of the college experience so great is what we do outside of the classroom or the lecture hall. The clubs and organizations that I'm a part of, along with the real friendships and connections I've developed, are truly what made my freshman year memorable. So much growth happens during your first year of college, and while a part of that growth is purely academic, I think most of it comes from the memories you make and the experiences you have outside of that — without a textbook, laptop, or a phone in your hands.” - Aradhana Chandra (International Affairs) Hometown: Alpharetta, Georgia “My advice is to not take the advice of the majority. Do not fear a school of which you are unprepared for. If you were unqualified, you would not be here right now. Instead, here you stand with your head held high and an acceptance letter in hand. Take every opportunity to meet those around you. A true friend can come from the most unexpected places, particularly on the days you are down. Surround yourself with those you aspire to be like and move forward and ahead confidently with their wise counsel in hand. You have an extraordinary four (or more) years ahead of you, and it will blow each forethought or indecision entirely away. Confidence is key, and your future awaits!” - Emily Finger (International Affairs and Modern Languages) Hometown: Newnan, Georgia “It's important to make sure that you love the things you're doing, whether that's your extracurricular activities or your major. I frequently over-commit myself and that's definitely something I wish I had been more conscious of this year. There's a limited number of hours in the day and it's important to be positive that you're spending it in the most effective way possible. There are times that assignments and meetings can be unenjoyable or tiresome. But if every meeting or every assignment makes you feel like you're swimming through molasses, don't be afraid to reconsider your decision to be involved with that particular organization or to pursue that particular major. It's much more important to be happy with what you do than to finish something just because you started it.” - Elli Goebel (History, Technology, and Society) Hometown: Decatur, Georgia “One of the most important things I learned during my freshman year was the importance of stepping out of your comfort zone and pushing yourself. Earlier in the year, I was interested in joining a few organizations that happened to involve a lot of public speaking, which was never a favorite activity of mine. Despite that, I applied to and joined them, and I'm very happy I did. Not only am I passionate about what I'm doing with these groups, but I've also improved my public speaking. My advice to incoming freshmen would be to find something that you're passionate about or always wanted to do and get involved, even if it's not something you would typically do.” - Janel Gale (Economics and International Affairs) Hometown: Snellville, Georgia Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology