Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Students Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts for Grad School? Graduate-level liberal arts studies that are relevant and impactful. Graduate students acquire the technical expertise characteristic of Georgia Tech graduates and the contextual understanding that is the hallmark of fine liberal arts education. You'll be part of a vibrant learning community that prepares you to innovate and lead in a complex world. Students in the Ivan Allen College acquire the technical expertise that is characteristic of Georgia Tech graduates and the contextual understanding that is the hallmark of a fine liberal arts education. Alumni identify three attributes developed through their education here that distinguish them from their professional peers: Ability to bridge technological and non-technological realms Complex problem solving abilities Science and technology savviness Other characteristics that set your education here apart from that offered by other liberal arts colleges: Quick Links Blurb / Gallery Set Interdisciplinary Studies Rigorous, interdisciplinary programs blend critical thinking, contextual understanding, and communication skills with technical and analytical expertise and perspectives in engineering, computing, and science. Applied Theory and Practice Our coursework emphasizes both theoretical and applied learning. Students can tackle real problems and create real solutions, developing a resume that features real-world, experience. Premier Research Environment Georgia Tech's global stature as a premier research university provides exceptional opportunities to build a distinct resume through internships, study/work abroad, scholarly programs, and research. Job Connections Our deep roots in Atlanta and extensive collaborations with academia, business, government, industry, and non-profits around the world affords opportunities to develop important career relationships. Human-Centered Innovation Socially and ethically conscious frameworks are foundational to our work defining problems in human terms and innovating solutions in the public interest. #1 Best Value for Graduate School valuecolleges.com 2015 Quick Links Blurb / Gallery Set Graduate Community Our community offers rich intellectual exchange and robust extra-curricular activities. Our culture embodies characteristics that are intrinsic to Georgia Tech — extraordinary interdisciplinary collaboration, industriousness, and enthusiasm for solving the most complex human problems. World-Leading Research Georgia Tech ranks as a top U.S. research university with nearly $978 million in research conducted in 2019. Through our extensive innovation ecosystem, we address critical research challenges and move solutions out into the world. A Technology Hub Georgia Tech lies in the heart of Atlanta, the 9th largest city in the U.S., the #1 destination for young urban professionals, and headquarters to some of the nation's top companies. Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Programs of Study What are the various Graduate Programs available in Ivan Allen College? The college offers both masters and doctoral programs. I'm not sure which graduate program is best for me, how can I get help? Review the information available on this site, and on our school and programs websites. Contact the graduate directors and advisors or coordinators to discuss questions or concerns related to course of study, careers, focal research areas, etc. Find out more Is it possible to change my program of study after admission? One would need to apply for acceptance in to a different program via the Graduate Studies website. What are the various research opportunities with Ivan Allen College? A broad range of research opportunities are available within the College. Students should discuss their interests with a graduate program director, program coordinator, or faculty in the program or school of interest. The Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts and other units at Georgia Tech support some graduate students through work on college initiatives, communications, or projects. Graduate Admissions What are the requirements for admission to graduate programs? Requirements are specific to each program. Review the website for each program to understand its requirements. How does the admission process work at the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Prospective graduate students for all programs apply through Georgia Tech’s Graduate Admissions website. Applications are reviewed and responded to by the program directors and coordinators. What is the application process to various schools? Graduate student apply through the central Georgia Tech Graduate Admissions website. Each graduate program reviews and responds to applicants. Graduate Financial Aid How do I apply for financial assistance? An introduction to funding opportunities is available. Also visit the Georgia Tech Graduate Financial Aid page. What are the chances of getting financial aid at Georgia Tech? Each applicant is evaluated by a graduate program, which awards aid based on merit and fit. Each admission offer includes an aid decision. On average 50-60% of incoming students receive aid in the form of fellowships, research assistantships, or teaching assistantships, which are typically accompanied by tuition waivers. Other incoming students find work and/or aid after they begin their graduate programs at Georgia Tech. What is the difference between a GRA and GTA? Graduate Research Assistants (GRAs) typically work on research with or for faculty. Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) teach classes or assist faculty with their classes. How can I obtain a GRA or GTA? There is no centralized location to find an assistantship. The best way is to contact the various program directors and advisors. The Ivan Allen College offers several positions as well. Helpful Links Apply Now Contact an Advisor Visit the College Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology