Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Certificates Students pursue certificates to broaden knowledge, develop skills, and expand potential for success. Certificate programs require 12 hours of course work with six hours at the 3000 level or higher. Consult with an advisor in the school offering the certificate to ensure that you meet all requirements. Available Certificates African-American Studies The Certificate in African-American Studies, offered jointly by the School of History and Sociology (HSOC) and the School of Literature, Communication and Culture, recognizes the achievement of concentrated knowledge in a subject area. Students may choose courses in areas such as African-American History, Southern History, Twentieth Century History, and the Immigrant Experience, among other topics. Students also select from courses offered through the School of Literature, Communication, and Culture on subjects such as race, ethnicity, and literature. Asian Affairs The Certificate in Asian Affairs, offered jointly by the School of History and Sociology and the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs, recognizes the achievement of concentrated knowledge in a subject area. East Asia is a dynamic region of the world economy and a focal point of international security and diplomatic attention. European Affairs The Certificate in European Affairs, offered jointly by the School of History and Sociology (HSOC) and the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs, allows students to choose courses on such topics as ancient or recent European history, in-depth studies of modern European countries, and foreign policy through international affairs. All courses which satisfy the European Affairs certificate requirements also fulfill either humanities or social science requirements necessary for all Tech students. History Students may choose courses in areas such as Modern European and American Economic, Social, and Industrial History, Southern History, African- American History, the History of Technology. The certificate demonstrates your achievement in areas beyond your major to employers and graduate institutions, and is helpful to students going on to graduate study in law, medicine, or business. Intellectual Property The certificate in Intellectual Property is an interdisciplinary study program offered by the Ivan Allen College School of Public Policy and is beneficial to those interested in careers as patent agents, intellectual property lawyers, business, and innovation and IP policy. International Affairs The Certificate in International Affairs can enhance the employment opportunities of students pursuing majors outside of International Affairs by adding an international dimension to their field of study. Language: Chinese This certificate is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in Chinese and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture. Language: French This certificate is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in French and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture. Language: German This certificate is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in Chinese and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture. Language: Japanese This certificate is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in Japanese and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture. Language: Linguistics The Certificate in Linguistics consists of 12 credit hours with two different tracks: Track A, General Linguistics; and Track B, Language Processing. Language: Russian This certificate is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in Russian and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture. Language: Spanish This certificate is designed for students who wish to develop their language skills to at least an intermediate level in Spanish and to provide themselves with a greater depth of knowledge about the language and culture Latin American Affairs A certificate in Latin American Affairs is offered by the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs to provide students the skills to demystify the major issues confronting the world today, specifically in contemporary Latin America. Philosophy of Science and Technology This minor is designed to improves student's abilities to think and communicate, to acquire a breadth of understanding about the world, science, society, and themselves that can inform their judgment. Pre-Law The certificate in pre-law enables students to prepare for graduate programs in law through classes offered by the School of Public Policy Scenarios, Models, and Military Games The Certificate in Scenarios, Models, and Military Games will give students a grounding in the use of scenarios, models, and gaming in the analysis of national security issues. The initial courses provide a broad overview of the relationship between technology and military operations. An additional requirement consisting of a class in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) introduces the student to geographically distributed data and the usage of maps for spatial analysis. The subsequent courses build upon that and teach students to apply advanced computational and analytic methods to national security issues Sociology Students may choose courses in areas such as the Sociology of Development, Technology and Society, Sociology of Work and Industry, Politics and Society, Social Issues and Public Policy, among other topics. The certificate demonstrates your achievement in areas beyond your major to employers and graduate institutions, and is helpful to students going on to graduate study in law, medicine, or business. The Georgia Institute of Technology is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, telephone 404-679-4500, http://www.sacscoc.org for questions about the accreditation of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology