Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Community Alumni Success Stories Mingge Wu Degree M.S. Economics 2003; Ph.D. Economics 2014 Career Senior Statistician, Intercontinental Hotels Group Mingge Wu became the first doctoral candidate to receive a PhD in Economics from Georgia Tech in May, 2014. After earning a B.S. and B.A. in applied economics from Wuhan University in China, she came to Georgia Tech in 2008 to pursue her master's degree. During her time as a master's student, she discovered a topic that inspired further research as a PhD student: how governments in developing countries balance economic growth and environmental concerns. Pursuing Economics at Tech Even though my undergraduate education provided me with a solid background in economic theory, I had no real clear ideas about what economic research looks like. My research interests became motivated by the coursework in the master’s program I completed here at Georgia Tech, which taught me how various fields differ from and interact with each other. I then chose to delve into further research as a Ph.D. student, exploring the interactions between international trade and environmental regulations Few programs combine economics, engineering, and public policy into such a well-organized package. The program is small, and everyone works closely with each other, meaning professors are all very helpful and the students’ voices will always be heard. The Ph.D. in Economics program provided me with rich resources related to research. I had the opportunity to work with professors in math, business, public policy, industrial engineering and environmental engineering. Few programs combine economics, engineering, and public policy into such a well-organized package. The program is small, and everyone works closely with each other, meaning professors are all very helpful and the students’ voices will always be heard. I worked in particular with my advisor, Tibor Besedes, along with Usha Nair-Reichert and Eric Johnson. Researching Environmental Regulations My research examined the interactions between international trade and environmental regulations motivated by the pollution haven hypothesis, which states that when seeking to set up factories abroad, large industrialized nations will often look for the cheapest option in terms of resources and labor. This often means sending production to developing nations with less stringent environmental regulations, reducing pollution control. In particular, my dissertation looked at how environmental regulations affect international bilateral trade flows. It showed that imports will increase for European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS) members for dirty industries while exports decrease. Additionally, EU ETS changes firms’ foreign direct investment decisions. According to my theoretical model, both inward and outward foreign direct investment in dirty industries decreases for EU ETS members. Teaching Experience Teaching the undergraduate principle economics course was one of my greatest experiences at Georgia Tech. As a non-native English speaker, it was a challenge to teach 150 students with a diverse set of backgrounds at one time. It forced me to think about economics from an outsider’s perspective. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology