Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Academics Ivan Allen Degree Programs Georgia Tech's extraordinary interdisciplinary culture allows — and encourages — students to pursue courses, projects, and research across the College, as well as in other colleges and research units on campus. An interest in sustainability policy, for example, may be amplified through studies in schools focused on language and intercultural studies, gender, history, global development, economics, or film. You will also work alongside students in disciplines that cut across the entire academic breath of Georgia Tech, which includes the colleges of business, computing, engineering, design, and science, or even the Georgia Tech Research Corporation. Use this comprehensive list of degrees, minors, and certificate programs to gain a sense of the scope of what is offered within the College. Also explore our major research areas. Academic Degrees Undergraduate B.S. in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies B.S. in Computational Media B.S. in Economics B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in History, Technology, and Society B.S. in International Affairs B.S. in International Affairs and Modern Languages B.S. in Literature, Media, and Communication B.S. in Public Policy Online Masters M.S. in Public Policy - Cybersecurity Policy (Interdisciplinary) – Online M.S. in Public Policy - Sustainability Energy and Environmental Management (Interdisciplinary) – Online Masters M.S. in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies M.S. in Digital Media M.S. in Economics M.S. in Global Media and Cultures M.S. in History and Sociology of Technology and Science M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction M.S. in International Affairs M.S. in International Security (1-year customizable) M.S. in Public Policy M.S. in Public Policy - Cybersecurity Policy (Interdisciplinary) M.S. in Public Policy - Sustainability Energy and Environmental Management (Interdisciplinary) M.S. in Public Policy and City and Regional Planning (Dual Degree) Five Year Bachelors/Masters B.S. / M.S. in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies B.S. / M.S. in Computational Media and Digital Media B.S. / M.S. in Economics B.S. / M.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S. / M.S. in International Affairs B.S. / M.S. in Literature, Media, and Communication and Digital Media B.S. / M.S. in Public Policy Doctorate Ph.D. in Digital Media Ph.D. in Economics Ph.D. in History and Sociology of Technology and Science Ph.D. in International Affairs, Science, and Technology Ph.D. in Public Policy Ph.D. in Public Policy - Joint Degree with Georgia State University Undergraduate Minors East Asian Studies Economics Energy Systems Film and Media Studies Global Development Health, Medicine, and Society History International Affairs International Business, Language, and Culture Language: Chinese Language: French Language: German Language: Japanese Language: Korean Language: Russian Language: Spanish Law, Science, and Technology Leadership Studies Middle Eastern and North African Studies Philosophy of Science and Technology Political Science Public Policy Science Fiction Studies Science, Technology, and Society Social Justice Sociology Sports, Society, and Technology Women, Science, and Technology Undergraduate Certificates African-American Studies Asian Affairs European Affairs History Intellectual Property International Affairs Language: Chinese Language: French Language: German Language: Japanese Language: Linguistics Language: Russian Language: Spanish Latin American Affairs Philosophy of Science and Technology Pre-Law Scenarios, Models, and Military Games Sociology Graduate Program Certificates Astrobiology Graduate Certificate Doctoral Certificate in Public Policy Global Development Graduate Certificate International Security and Aerospace Systems Graduate Certificate Science, Technology and Society Graduate Certificate Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology