Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Students Undergraduate Students From classes to international experiences, research opportunities, and careers, liberal arts students at Georgia Tech have unique opportunities and experiences through our bachelor of science programs in the humanities and social sciences. Highlight Photos Blurb / Gallery Set The Argentina Program visited the new Atucha II Néstor Kirchner Nuclear Reactor near Buenos Aires, Argentina as part of their research on energy security in the Southern Cone. Computational Media major Kevin taking a break to hike during his internship at Icon Worldwide in Switzerland. Related Pages Blurb / Gallery Set The Classroom The classroom is the heart of a good education, and our academic programs are renowned internationally as models for liberal arts education in the technological age. See examples of our liberal arts classes. International Experiences From interning in Brussels to researching in Barcelona to studying in Moscow, Ivan Allen students are global-minded and incorporate that into their programs. Undergraduate Research Georgia Tech is a tier one research university. This means our students have unique research advantages compared to most traditional liberal arts colleges. Discover our research areas and student projects. Careers From Fortune 500 corporations to government agencies, non-profits, think tanks, and NGOs, our students have ample opportunities nearby for career connections. Take a look at where they go and what they do. For More Information Blurb / Gallery Set Visit Us to Learn More Speak With a Student Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology