Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Students Graduate Students Graduate Student Profiles Our graduate students conduct cutting-edge research at the convergence of technology, social sciences, and the humanities while gaining the technical and analytical expertise to make them a driving force in their respective fields. Meet some new or familiar faces from our diverse and multi-faceted graduate community. Kestra James Read More About Kestra James Global Media and Culture Kestra James is among the African American men and women at Georgia Tech who are rising as the next generation of big thinkers and world changers. As an undergraduate student, James helped organize a trip to Munich, Germany, to assist 200 Syrian refugees in adjusting to their new lives in Europe. As a graduate student, she’s now helping coordinate programming for Georgia Tech’s brand new master’s program in Global Media and Culture. This summer, she plans to return to Germany where she’ll be working on a documentary about the Afro-German community. She hopes to inspire future generations to pursue the fields they develop a passion for, particularly language studies. “If you have an interest and you're willing to work toward your goals, you will be successful,” says James. Duri Long Read More About Duri Long Ph.D. Human-Centered Computing A paper authored primarily by Duri Long, Ph.D. candidate in human-centered computing, received an honorable mention award, placing among the top four percent of papers accepted for the Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, one of the top conferences in the field of human-computer interaction. Co-authored with Brian Magerko, professor in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication, the paper, titled "What is AI Literacy? Competencies and Design Considerations," synthesizes research in the field to create a "set of core competencies" to evaluate artificial intelligence (AI) programs and influence future development in the field. It is part of Long's doctoral dissertation. Alice Clifton Read More About Alice Clifton Ph.D. in the History and Sociology of Technology and Science I’m an Atlanta native, but I was perfectly willing to go anywhere in the U.S. to attend the graduate program I liked most. After an exhaustive search, I realized that Ivan Allen College was the best choice for me. First, I knew it was an excellent program that could give me broad training in history, sociology, and science and technology studies. Second, there were several professors in the program whose research interests matched up with my really varied interests. I knew that I’d likely find an excellent mentor no matter my eventual topic of focus. Last, I liked everyone I met here! They were doing interesting things, they appreciated what I could bring to the table with my nontraditional background, and they were nice. I felt like I could spend the next several years here and really grow and feel supported. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology