Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home News and Events ‘In the Middle of War, He is Asking for Poems’ — LMC’s Ilya Kaminsky on the War in Ukraine Ilya Kaminsky, Margaret T. and Henry C. Bourne Jr. Chair in Poetry and director of Poetry@Tech Posted March 14, 2022 For Ilya Kaminsky, Margaret T. and Henry C. Bourne Jr. Chair in Poetry and director of Poetry@Tech in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication, the war in Ukraine hits close to home. The poet, who often writes and speaks of his childhood in Odessa, Ukraine, authored an op-ed for The New York Times on March 13, 2022, in which he discusses war, poetry, and the fate of Ukraine’s writers and translators — many of whom he has been trying to help escape the country amid the Russian invasion. “Lots of Ukrainian writers don’t want to leave,” Kaminsky wrote in the column. “They want their freedoms. They want their own languages — Ukrainian and Russian — in their own streets. I understand. My Jewish family keeps running from Odessa — and then returning.” Kaminsky is the author of two prize-winning books of poetry, Dancing in Odessa and Deaf Republic. His poem, “We Lived Happily During the War,” went viral starting the day Russian troops invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, 2022. Poetry International first published the piece in 2013, the same year the Maidan protests began in Ukraine and the year before the Donbas War in Ukraine broke out. “We lived happily during the war,” the poem begins, “and when they bombed other people’s houses, we / protested / but not enough, we opposed them but not / enough.” Kaminsky has also been keeping in contact with friends and family in Ukraine. He included some conversations in the op-ed. He also chronicles many of his discussions on Twitter. “I ask how I can help,” Kaminsky writes in the op-ed. “Finally, an older friend, a lifelong journalist, writes back: ‘Putins come and go. If you want to help, send us some poems and essays. We are putting together a literary magazine.’” “In the middle of war,” Kaminsky marvels, “he is asking for poems.” Contact For More Information Cassidy Chreene Whittle Communications Officer School of Literature, Media, and Communication | School of Modern Languages cwhittle9@gatech.edu Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology