Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Community Alumni and Giving Priorities and Needs Your generous contribution will help the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts uniquely prepare students for the global workforce. Ivan Allen College students benefit from their interdisciplinary education in the social sciences and humanities and their exposure to groundbreaking technologies at a leading technological institute. It is these qualities that distinguish our graduates and ensure their success as leaders for our state, region, nation, and world. You Can Make An Impact Donors impact the lives of deserving students with scholarships, they elevate academic programs by supporting innovative research, and they enrich learning experiences by funding state of the art facilities. You can choose to designate your gift for a permanent endowment or current operations. Georgia Tech and the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts appreciate your generosity and we look forward to helping you determine your area of support. Faculty Support $25,000 to $2,500,000 Georgia Tech's most important priority is people. Attracting and retaining the most talented students, faculty, and researchers is critical to the Ivan Allen College's continued upward trajectory. From endowed chairs and professorships to general faculty support, your gift will make a deep and lasting impact on the Ivan Allen College. Your generosity facilitates faculty growth by recruiting and retaining world class teacher-scholars and will help attract exceptional undergraduate students and provide them with superb educational and leadership opportunities. Student Support $25,000 to $300,000 Providing students with the tools they need to succeed, including need and merit-based scholarships and fellowships, is one of the most essential elements of Georgia Tech's mission. Your gift helps attract the finest students to our College. It ensures them an exceptional education and affords them opportunities to make meaningful contributions to society. Program Enrichment From $25,000 The innovative programs within the Ivan Allen College distinguish us from traditional liberal arts and prepare our students to be effective leaders with both people skills and technological know-how. Support for program enrichment is vital to maintaining the College’s standards of excellence, to continually redefining a leading edge in innovation, and to sustaining our unique interdisciplinary curriculum. Unlike endowments, programmatic support is available to the College in the year in which it is received. Gifts and grants may be designated to the College or any of its Schools and may remain unrestricted in use therein. Such funds support core academic and programmatic goals, as well as provide seed funds for emerging initiatives. How to Make a Gift For alumni and friends: A cash gift is the easiest and most popular option, while the most common type of planned giving is a bequest. Other potential gifts can include gifts of securities, retirement plans, life insurance, and real estate. For corporations: By building a relationship with the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts, your company can invest in the nation’s future leaders and demonstrate its commitment to young entrepreneurs, policymakers, public servants, and media specialists. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology