Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Academics Graduate Programs A graduate degree from Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts denotes technological expertise. Consistent with the larger mission and reputation of Georgia Tech, the Ivan Allen College graduate programs are focused on rigorous professional and research practices. Advanced degree students become part of a vibrant interdisciplinary community of scholars who are engaged in ground-breaking research that is redefining the boundaries of liberal arts studies, often encompassing the technological and scientific realms. Why Ivan Allen College for Grad School? Admissions and Application Process Master of Science Programs Ivan Allen College master's degrees denote professional skills for industry, government, and non-profit organizations. We maintain a small number of students in each program to facilitate close student-mentor relationships. Faculty and advisors are available to discuss your interests and help find the right program for you. Ivan Allen degree programs offer an exciting intellectual environment where students define themselves, their work and their future. Available Masters Degrees M.S. in Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies M.S. in Digital Media M.S. in Economics M.S. in Global Media and Cultures M.S. in History and Sociology of Technology and Science M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction M.S. in International Affairs M.S. in International Security (1-year customizable) M.S. in Public Policy M.S. in Public Policy - Cybersecurity Policy (Interdisciplinary) M.S. in Public Policy - Cybersecurity Policy (Interdisciplinary) – Online M.S. in Public Policy - Sustainability Energy and Environmental Management (Interdisciplinary) M.S. in Public Policy - Sustainability Energy and Environmental Management (Interdisciplinary) – Online M.S. in Public Policy and City and Regional Planning (Dual Degree) Doctor of Philosophy Programs Doctoral degrees prepare scholars for research careers in dialogue with changing technology, globalization, and the public sector. Graduates go on to careers at top-flight universities, Fortune 500 companies, and non-profit organizations. Available Doctoral Degrees Ph.D. in Digital Media Ph.D. in Economics Ph.D. in History and Sociology of Technology and Science Ph.D. in International Affairs, Science, and Technology Ph.D. in Public Policy Ph.D. in Public Policy - Joint Degree with Georgia State University Certificate Programs Several graduate-level certificates are offered in the College. These are open to graduate students in all colleges and disciplines on campus. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology