Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Search About Our Mission People Contact News Careers Programs Master's Programs Secondary Field Program Courses Capstone Financing The Degree News & Events IACS Distinguished Lecturer Series Videos of past events ComputeFest Research Explore our Master’s Programs Training students in the rapidly growing field of data science. Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) Learn more about a top-tier engineering school embedded in one of the world's leading liberal arts institutions. Take a virtual tour of the Allston Campus! The SEC is home to a portion of Harvard’s John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS). Artificial intelligence (AI) guiding autonomous drones Research could enable monitoring of our oceans or exploration of alien ocean worlds. Educating the Next Generation IACS is a vibrant, interdisciplinary and inclusive community of Harvard students, faculty and staff. Our focus is providing a world class education for careers in Computational and Data Sciences. IACS Graduate Programs Master's Computational Science and Engineering Data Science PhD Secondary Field Computational Science and Engineering Data Science Resources Training and Workshops IACS events, including ComputeFest, the Pedagogy Workshop, and WiDS-Cambridge and more. Harvard Data Science Initiative Since its launch in 2017, the HDSI has worked across Harvard to unite leading computer scientists, statisticians, and domain experts. IACS YouTube Meet the Faculty, IACS Seminar Series, 2021 Women in Data Science, ComputeFest and more. Research Projects Novel method simulates tens of thousands of bubbles in foamy flows Our paper "Learning Efficient Navigation in Vortical Flow Fields" was published in Nature Communications Publications Deep Learning for Two-Sided Matching About Programs News & Events Research css-home-brand-2022 css-home-2022 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement