Workshops Resources About Us Institute for Academic Leadership The Institute for Academic Leadership, hosted by Florida State University, conducts workshops to enhance the planning, management, and leadership competencies of department chairpersons, deans, and academic administrators of the State University System of Florida. Florida’s Resource for Academic Chairs and Administrators in the State University System State University System of Florida, Department Chairs Workshop. Mission Inn, Howie-in-the-Hills. The chairs workshop is a two-session series—one session in the fall and the other in the spring. Each session has a different set of topics. The workshop is designed to be interactive and participative, rather than a lecture/listen format. Each topic to be discussed has an assigned reading period followed by small group discussion. The purpose of these workshops is to support the development of the chair as an academic leader within the department and within the institution as a whole. The workshop is designed to stimulate discussion and enable interaction among chairs and provide an opportunity to discuss rules and procedures, legal issues, common frustrations, and many other topics of general interest. Topics to be Covered Fall Faculty Evaluation and Performance Counseling Academic Maps Legal Issues Facing Chairs Delegating and Using Committees Faculty Assignments Spring Chair as Leader Conflict Resolution and Management Departmental Budgeting Teaching Effectiveness Departmental Missions, Goals, and Assessment Workshop Dates Spring: Fall: June 5–8, 2022 September 11–14, 2022 June 4–7, 2023 October 1–4, 2023 June 9–12, 2024 October 6–9, 2024 Directions The chairs workshops will be held at the Mission Inn, Howey-in-the-Hills, Florida. Past workshops have been held here and attendees have given us positive feedback about the hotel. For a look at the amenities, visit the Mission Inn website. For information regarding the workshops, contact Anne Blankenship at (850) 443-6458, ablankenship@fsu.edu or Larry Abele, Director, at (850) 591-0358, labele@fsu.edu. Workshop Attendees Since 2009 Total Attendees: 1550 Current and Past Workshops Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Fall 2019 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Archive Spring 2022 Academic Leadership • Departmental Missions, Goals, and Assessment • Teaching Effectiveness • Conflict Resolution and Maintaining Morale • Departmental Budgeting. See Agenda Presentations Budget and Legislative Updates by Tim Jones | coming soon Assuming a Leadership Role by Greg Tolley | reading material and slides (coming soon) Effective Teaching by Lawrence G. Abele | reading material and slides (coming soon) What your General Counsel and Human Resource Office would like you to know as Chair by Ryan R. Fuller | slides (coming soon) Mission, Goals and Assessment by Jeffrey Moore | reading material and slides (coming soon) Departmental Budgeting by Joe Glover | reading material Transitioning into an Administrative Role and Leadership by Paul Hart | slides (coming soon) Dealing with Conflict and Maintaining Morale by Nancy Stanlick | reading material and slides (coming soon) Other Workshop Material 2022 Legislative Bills of Interest | document Fall 2021 Faculty Evaluation & Performance Counseling • Assigning Faculty Activities • Legal Implications of Being a Chair • Dealing with Deans. See Agenda Presentations Faculty Evaluation & Performance Counseling by Gwendolyn Singleton | reading material | slides Assigning Faculty Activities by Lawrence Abele | reading material | slides Legal Implications of Being a Chair by Ryan Fuller | reading material | slides Dealing with Deans by Janet Kistner | reading material | slides Fall 2019 Faculty Evaluation & Performance Counseling • Assigning Faculty Activities • Legal Implications of Being a Chair • Delegating and Using Committees • Dealing with Deans. See Agenda Presentations Collective Bargaining by Ryan Fuller | slides Faculty Evaluation & Performance Counseling by Gwendolyn Singleton | reading material | slides Assigning Faculty Activities by Lawrence G. Abele | reading material | slides An Introduction to the Five Practices of Exemplary Leadership by Norman Anderson Delegating and Using Committees by Glenn Cunningham | reading material | slides Time Management by James Gray | slides Dealing with Deans by Janet Kistner | reading material | slides Spring 2019 Academic Leadership • Departmental Missions, Goals, and Assessment • Teaching Effectiveness • Conflict Resolution and Maintaining Morale • Departmental Budgeting. See Agenda Presentations Board of Governors & Financial and Legislative Update 2019 by Tim Jones | slides Assuming a Leadership Role by Barbara Ridener | slides Departmental Budgeting by Joe Glover | slides Life on the Bridge – Conflict Management, Leadership and Lifelines by Monique McKay | slides (coming soon) Mission, Goals and Assessment by Jeffrey Moore | slides Effective Teaching by Lawrence G. Abele | slides Ethics and Legal Issues in Teaching by Nancy Stanlick | slides Dealing with Conflict and Maintaining Morale by Karen Bryan | slides Other Workshop Materials 2019 Legislative Bill Summary | document CS/SB 190, Higher Education Bill Summary | document Fall 2018 Higher Education Leadership • Faculty Evaluations & Performance Counseling • Assigning Faculty Activities • Performance Measures • Legal Implications of Being a Chair • Delegating and Using Committees • Time Management • Dealing with Deans. See Agenda Presentations Social Media by Marcia DiStaso | slides Faculty Evaluations & Performance Counseling by Gwendolyn Singleton | slides Assigning Faculty Activities by Lawrence G. Abele | slides Departmental Graduation Rates by Lawrence G. Abele | slides Delegating and Using Committees Glenn Cunningham | slides Time Management by James Gray | slides Dealing with Deans by Janet Kistner | slides Spring 2018 Academic Leadership • Departmental Missions, Goals, and Assessment • Teaching Effectiveness • Conflict Resolution and Maintaining Morale • Departmental Budgeting. See Agenda Presentations Legislative Update 2018 by Janet Owen | slides Assuming a Leadership Role by Barbara Ridener | slides Tools of the Trade by Isis Carbajal de Garcia | slides Mission, Goals and Assessment by Jeffrey Moore | slides Effective Teaching by Lawrence G. Abele | slides Social Media by Stephanie Vie | slides and handout Dealing with Conflict and Maintaining Morale by Karen Bryan | slides Fall 2017 Higher Education Leadership • Faculty Evaluation & Performance Counseling • Assigning Faculty Activities • Performance Measures • Legal Implications of Being a Chair • Delegating and Using Committees • Time Management • Dealing with Deans. See Agenda Presentations Effective Listening Skills by Diann Newman | handout Faculty Evaluation & Performance by Gwendolyn Singleton | slides Assigning Faculty Activites by Larry Abele | slides Staff Evaluations by Jamie Sprague | slides Delegating and Using Committees by Glenn Cunningham | slides Time Management by Jim Gray | slides Dealing with Deans by Janet Kistner | slides Spring 2017 Academic Leadership • Departmental Missions, Goals, and Assessment • Teaching Effectiveness • Conflict Resolution and Maintaining Morale • Departmental Budgeting. See Agenda Presentations Implicit Bias by Kate Ratliff | slides Assuming a Leadership Role by Barbara Ridener | slides Positive Academic Leadership by Jeffrey Buller | slides Mission, Goals and Assessment by Jeffrey Moore | slides Effective Teaching by Larry Abele | slides Performance Funding by Joe Glover | slides Dealing with Conflict and Maintaining Morale by Karen Bryan | slides Other Workshop Material 2017-2018 Operating Budget Governor's Vetoes 2017 Vetoed SB 374 Summary Fall 2016 Higher Education Leadership • Faculty Evaluation & Performance Counseling • Assigning Faculty Activities • Performance Measures • Legal Implications of Being a Chair • Delegating and Using Committees • Time Management • Dealing with Deans. See Agenda Presentations Higher Education Leadership in Uncertain Times by Ralph C. Wilcox | slides Faculty Evaluation & Performance Counseling by Gwendolyn Singleton | slides Assigning Faculty Activities by Larry Abele | slides Performance Measures by Joe Glover | slides Delegating and Using Committees by Glenn Cunningham | slides Time Management by Jim Gray | slides Dealing with Deans by Janet Kistner | slides Presentations A Healthy Department by Lawrence G. Abele | slides This presentation reviews activities and qualities essential for a highly functioning academic department. Academic Leadership by Barbara Ridener | slides Leadership style, seeing the big picture, leading by example, communication, and relationships are highlighted in this look at leadership. Deans and Chairs Roles by Joe Glover | slides This presentation discusses how and why the roles and functions of the Dean and Chairs are different and how to make the most of it. What Your General Counsel and Human Resource Office Would Like you to Know as Chair by Ryan Fuller | slides Defining and identifying types of issues that arise within an academic department and when to contact the General Counsel or Human Resources Offices. Missions, Goals, and Assessment by Jeffrey Moore | slides This presentation reviews the purpose, design, and implementation of program assessment and highlights common misconceptions associated with assessment. Departmental Conflict by Carolyn Henne | slides This discussion offers approaches for dealing with different types of conflict within a department, along with maintaining faculty morale. Teaching Effectiveness by Lawrence G. Abele | slides This look at teaching explains the course syllabus, eight factors of effective teaching, the assessment of learning, and the validity of student evaluations. SUS Performance Funding by Joe Glover | slides Academic Maps by Larry Abele | slides A History of Higher Education by Randy Hanna | slides This presentation examines public higher education in Florida, including the structure of the State University System and legislative action regarding university issues. Conflict Resolution by Patricia Price | slides Defining and identifying types of conflict and recognizing different approaches to conflict situations are among the objectives of this presentation. Federal Rating System by Lawrence G. Abele | slides This look at college affordabilty reviews measures of the federal rating system: paying for performance, promoting innovation and competition, and ensuring the affordability of student debt. Managing (ir)Rational Behavior by Robert F. Kenny | slides This presentation focuses on case studies in managerial psychology, including a discussion of perception and the effect of expectations. Effective Fiscal Management by Johnny Pherigo | slides Financial management principles are covered, including account types such as educational and general, foundation, contracts and grants, student fees, and auxiliary/agency. Turning Administrative Chores into a Lucrative Career by Jaap Vos | slides Guidelines for success as a department chair, such as being a good listener, thinking about trends, and preparing for change, are provided. A Brief Look at Finances by Lawrence G. Abele | slides This financial overview covers the two sources of funding—general revenue and tuition and fees—and also presents a timeline for submission of the SUS legislative budget request. Departmental Budgeting and Assessment by Glenn Cunningham | slides Fiscal management, budget planning, database procedures, and the role of staff are described in this review of departmental budgeting, annual reports, and outcome assessment. Distance and Electronic Education by Joseph Glover | slides State-funded and self-funded policies of distance and electronic platform education are detailed in this presentation. Essential Department Chair by Jeffrey Buller | slides The concept of positive academic leadership, alternatives to common administrative practices, and the development of leadership strategies are explored. Lessons Gleaned from Howey by Jaap Vos | slides This overview details the requirements of a good chair, including knowledge of the departmental unit, understanding of external factors, and leadership skills. Strategies for Success by Lawrence G. Abele | slides Key strategies for the success of a chair include integrity, trust, and openness; belief in the university; creation of the environment; and knowledge of the department. Written Evaluations by Catherine Longstreth | slides The purpose of the written evaluation is to assess performance and this look at the evaluation process provides suggestions for preparing the draft and final letter. A Time for Everything by James Gray | slides This department chair’s survival guide offers insights on topics ranging from time management to student, faculty, and dean expectations. Delegation and Using Committees by Glenn Cunningham | slides How a chair can maximize effectiveness through efficient delegation and thoughtful committee assignments is described in this presentation. Faculty Evaluation by Kay Pasley | slides This presentation reviews the why, what, and how of faculty evaluations, with an emphasis on developing a plan for remedying deficiencies and building strengths. Case Studies Academic Legal Case Studies PDF These legal case studies deal with issues such as evaluation, leave, faculty relations, academic performance, public records, tenure and promotion, and special accommodations. These cases will be discussed during the small group discussion. Following the small group discussion, the attorneys will review the disposition of the cases. About the Institute for Academic Leadership Dr. Allan Tucker established the Institute for Academic Leadership at Florida State University in 1978 with a $500,000 grant from the Kellogg Foundation. In 1981, when the Kellogg grant expired, the State University System elected to support and continue the program. Dr. Lawrence G. Abele serves as Director of the Institute. The Department Chairpersons Workshop consists of two sessions, one during the fall term and one during the spring term. Participants are primarily new chairs; however, experienced chairs are also included. Different topics are covered at each session and sessions can be attended in any order. Each participant is nominated by his or her dean and provost. The format of the workshop includes presentations on topics relevant to academic management followed by small discussion groups. One of the major benefits of the workshop is the opportunity for interaction among colleagues. Workshop topics include the power and authority of a chair; procedures for recruiting, employing, and retaining faculty; legal implications of being a department chair; professional growth and faculty development; decision making; bringing about change; maintaining morale; curriculum planning; and departmental budgeting. The State University System funds this program; therefore, there is no cost to the participant or department. The Institute acknowledges the assistance and dedication of volunteers in the preparation of the annual workshops. Contact Anne Blankenship, Program Director (850) 443-6458 ablankenship@fsu.edu Larry Abele, Director (850) 591-0358 labele@fsu.edu 116-F Westcott Building Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 The Institute for Academic Leadership is an equal opportunity employer. For information, view Office of Equal Opportunity and Compliance. © Florida State University