Inclusive Academy Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Inclusive Academy Main Menu Menu Symposium Award Nominations Schedule Speakers Highlights About Access, Diversity & Inclusion Search Search Inclusive Academy May 11-12, 2022 Unearthing genius and joy Princeton University “Too often, the genius, joy, contributions, service, and overall awesomeness of folks from underrepresented backgrounds are overlooked, hidden, and kept secret. There is research that even suggests that terms like brilliance and genius are not associated with people of color. The Inclusive Academy (IA) Symposium and the BADI Awards are designed to unearth, unhide, and celebrate the genius, joy, and contributions of this community.” —Renita Miller, Associate Dean of Access, Diversity, and Inclusion Join Us: May 11 – 12, 2022 The inaugural Inclusive Academy (IA) Symposium is an in-person two-day diversity conference focused on supporting graduate students and post-doctoral scholars from underrepresented backgrounds, on an array of topics related to success in the academy and on the job market. The symposium is focused on bringing graduate students and post-doctoral scholars from underrepresented backgrounds together while also providing a platform to discuss critical topics for thriving and success through a holistic and intersectional lens. We will host panels, speakers, and workshops that enhance their knowledge and understanding of topics related to academic entrepreneurship, cultivating joy, interviewing, salary negotiations, and financial literacy in addition to strengthening their leadership, public speaking, networking, and storytelling skills. Best of Access, Diversity, & Inclusion Award Nominations The symposium will culminate in the first of its kind award dinner, The Best of Access, Diversity, and Inclusion Awards, also known as the BADI awards. The BADI awards will honor and celebrate faculty, staff, post-docs, and graduate students who have made significant impacts in the Princeton graduate student community around diversity and inclusion. Please take a moment to submit a nomination for a well-deserved member of the Princeton community. Keynote Luvvie Ajayi Jones New York Times Best-Selling Author, Podcast Host, and Professional Troublemaker Thasunda Brown Duckett President and Chief Executive Officer of TIAA Speakers Almesha L. Campbell, Ph.D. Assistant Vice President for Research and Economic Development Jackson State University Majora Carter MacArthur 'Genius Grant' Fellow | Peabody Award Winning Broadcaster | Author Christopher L. Eisgruber President Princeton University Joy Gaston Gayles, Ph.D. President of the Association for the Study of Higher Education (ASHE) and Professor of Higher Education at NC State University Vanessa Gonzalez-Perez, Ph.D. Assistant Dean Diversity Initiatives in the Natural Sciences Princeton Graduate School Julius Korley, Ph.D. Associate Vice President for the Office of Economic Innovation & Partnerships University of Delaware Ricardo Mallarino, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Molecular Biology Princeton University Renita Miller, Ph.D. Associate Dean for Access, Diversity and Inclusion Princeton University Andrés Monroy-Hernández, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Computer Science Princeton University Rod Priestley, Ph.D. Vice Dean for Innovation, Incoming Dean of the Graduate School Princeton University Isaac Serwanga Inspirational Speaker, best-selling author, and Founder of Inform and Inspire Sponsors Join our mailing list Sign up for Inclusive Academy updates. Signup Now Footer Facebook Instagram Twitter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University