Skip to Main Content Brown University Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Search Institute at Brown for Environment and Society All News 329 Results based on your selections. National Public Radio Professor Jeffrey Colgan - U.S. Plans to Help Europe Diminish its Reliance on Russian Natural Gas March 28, 2022 NPR's A Martinez talks to Jeffrey Colgan, Director of Brown University's Climate Solutions Lab, about how the United States plans to help Europe diminish its reliance on Russian natural gas. Read Article Open details for Professor Jeffrey Colgan - U.S. Plans to Help Europe Diminish its Reliance on Russian Natural Gas News from Brown Professor Leah VanWey Appointed Brown’s Next Dean of the Faculty March 18, 2022 Leah VanWey, an accomplished scholar and academic leader who serves currently as dean of Brown’s School of Professional Studies, has been appointed the University’s next dean of the faculty, effective July 1, 2022. Read Article Open details for Professor Leah VanWey Appointed Brown’s Next Dean of the Faculty The Washington Post Article by Professor Jeff Colgan - There’s a Reason Putin Can be so Aggressive: Oil February 27, 2022 Russian President Vladimir Putin’s decision to invade Ukraine has set off a flood of speculation about his motives. Myriad factors — including perceptions of Russia’s historical ties to Ukraine and regional security concerns — probably drive his ambitions. But Russia’s personalist domestic politics and its oil and gas wealth also contributed to this aggression. Read Article Open details for Article by Professor Jeff Colgan - There’s a Reason Putin Can be so Aggressive: Oil Honest Columnist Professor Meredith Hastings Comments on the Increasing Threat of Global Warming to People of Color February 22, 2022 "If science were more inclusive, it would have a richer and deeper understanding of pressing issues facing society, including the climate crisis", said Meredith Hastings, Co-author of a recent article in the journal Nature Geosciences. Read Article Open details for Professor Meredith Hastings Comments on the Increasing Threat of Global Warming to People of Color The Guardian Visiting Professor Robert Brulle on PR Firms Greenwashing for Big Oil February 18, 2022 This week a peer-reviewed study confirmed what many have suspected for years: major oil companies are not fully backing up their clean energy talk with action. Now the PR and advertising firms that have been creating the industry’s greenwashing strategies for decades face a reckoning over whether they will continue serving big oil. Brulle said “This is the first robust, empirical, peer-reviewed analysis of the activities – of the speech, business plans, and the actual investment patterns – of the major oil companies regarding their support or opposition to the transition to a sustainable society". Read Article Open details for Visiting Professor Robert Brulle on PR Firms Greenwashing for Big Oil Calgary Herald Professor Christopher Horvat - In Search of a Frozen Ocean February 13, 2022 Professor Christopher Horvat teamed up with director Stephen Smith on the documentary Albedo: In Search of a Frozen Ocean. Read Article Open details for Professor Christopher Horvat - In Search of a Frozen Ocean Bwog - Columbia Student News Professor Myles Lennon - Politics of Solar Technology February 11, 2022 Staff Writer Kate Mekechuk attended the Department of Anthropology’s Boas Talk by Dr. Myles Lennon who discussed “Affective Energy: The ‘Equicratic’ Politics of Solar Technology From Wall Street to West Harlem.” Read Article Open details for Professor Myles Lennon - Politics of Solar Technology News From Brown Amanda Lynch to lead World Meteorological Organization’s research board January 11, 2022 Lynch will lead a board of approximately 30 international scientists and researchers responsible for establishing the WMO’s research priorities and coordinating scientific programs and projects across the world. The board plays a key role in the WMO’s mission to track weather, climate and water resources globally and disseminate that information to its 193 member states and territories. Read Article Open details for Amanda Lynch to lead World Meteorological Organization’s research board Energy News Network Professor Timmons Roberts on business lobbying being a major barrier to clean energy legislation in Connecticut December 13, 2021 Electric and gas utilities spent $24 million on lobbying state lawmakers between 2013 and 2020, four times that spent by renewable energy firms and more than eight times that of environmental organizations, according to the analysis from the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society. Connecticut should be a “best-case scenario” for progress on climate change, given that the economy is not reliant on fossil fuel extraction and there’s a “Democratic trifecta” in state government, said Timmons Roberts, professor of environmental studies and sociology at Brown and executive director of the Climate Social Science Network. Read Article Open details for Professor Timmons Roberts on business lobbying being a major barrier to clean energy legislation in Connecticut News from IBES IBES Professor Brain Lander Launches a New Book - The Kings Harvest December 9, 2021 Read Article Open details for IBES Professor Brain Lander Launches a New Book - The Kings Harvest The Boston Globe Professor J. Timmons Roberts - "Who killed the TCI?" December 8, 2021 The Transportation Climate Initiative was held up as a crucial part of driving down emissions and raising revenue each year to pay for key programs to address climate change. It’s now on pause. Read Article Open details for Professor J. Timmons Roberts - &quot;Who killed the TCI?&quot; Dailey Kos Visiting Professor Robert Brulle on the oil and gas industry's efforts to greenwash their public image December 7, 2021 Robert Brulle told Joselow that “the Heartland Institute and the Competitive Enterprise Institute and the Koch brothers” are “not really news anymore.” What is news, per Brulle’s paper, is the extensive work being done by the oil and gas industry “to greenwash their reputation and shift public opinion.” Read Article Open details for Visiting Professor Robert Brulle on the oil and gas industry&#039;s efforts to greenwash their public image News from IBES Professor Scott Frickel releases his latest book "Residues" December 2, 2021 Read Article Open details for Professor Scott Frickel releases his latest book &quot;Residues&quot; Gizmodo New study co-authored by IBES Visiting Professor Robert Brulle documents decades-long relationship between PR firms and Big Oil December 1, 2021 A study released Tuesday in the journal Climatic Change is the first to thoroughly document the role PR firms have had in helping fossil fuel companies finesse their public image and manipulate science to fit their messaging. Read Article Open details for New study co-authored by IBES Visiting Professor Robert Brulle documents decades-long relationship between PR firms and Big Oil Politico Professor Elizabeth Fussell comments on 'climate migrants' in Politico November 27, 2021 “What we can say is that while the number of people moving because of environmental disasters is small, it is growing and it is responding to disaster events,” said Elizabeth Fussell, associate professor of population studies and environment and society at Brown University. “This disaster-related mobility is responsive to these very large crises, and these very large crises are increasing. The trend is toward more disasters.” Read Article Open details for Professor Elizabeth Fussell comments on &#039;climate migrants&#039; in Politico Rutgers University Press Residues: Thinking Through Chemical Environments - A New Book Coauthored by Professor Scott Frickel November 3, 2021 Coauthored by IBES Professor Scott Frickel, "Residues: Thinking Through Chemical Environments", offers readers a new approach for conceptualizing the environmental impacts of chemicals production, consumption, disposal, and regulation. Read Article Open details for Residues: Thinking Through Chemical Environments - A New Book Coauthored by Professor Scott Frickel Climate Social Science Network Climate Social Science Network Announces Reporting Fellows September 13, 2021 PROVIDENCE, Rhode Island – September 13, 2021 – Today the Climate Social Science Network — an international network of social science scholars focused on understanding the cultural and institutional dynamics of the political conflict over climate change — announced its inaugural journalism fellows, Kate Aronoff and Taylor Kate Brown. These experienced journalists will collaborate on investigative research with local and global teams of social scientists. Read Article Open details for Climate Social Science Network Announces Reporting Fellows The Guardian Big oil’s ‘wokewashing’ is the new climate science denialism September 9, 2021 Academic researchers say the fossil fuel industry has a new tool to delay efforts to curb emissions – a social justice strategy Supported by guardian.org About this content Amy Westervelt @amywestervelt Thu 9 Sep 2021 06.00 EDT ExxonMobil has been touting its commitment to “reducing carbon emissions with innovative energy solutions”. Chevron would like to remind you it is keeping the lights on during this dark time. BP is going #NetZero, but is also very proud of the “digital innovations” on its new, enormous oil drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico. Meanwhile Shell insists it really supports women in traditionally male-dominated jobs. A casual social media user might get the impression the fossil fuel industry views itself as a social justice warrior, fighting on behalf of the poor, the marginalized, and women – at least based on its marketing material in recent years. Read Article Open details for Big oil’s ‘wokewashing’ is the new climate science denialism EcoRI News History Shows U.S. Food System Leaves Behind People of Color August 13, 2021 Summer Gonsalves knows the ins and outs of the U.S. food system, and she knows exactly who it leaves behind. In an online workshop hosted by the Providence-based Southside Community Land Trust on Aug. 6, Gonsalves dug into the social and environmental factors that limit food access from seed and soil to the supermarket shelf. The U.S. food system, she said, has purposefully and unfailingly disconnected people of color from nutritious and affordable foods. Read Article Open details for History Shows U.S. Food System Leaves Behind People of Color News from Brown Brown professor who worked on massive climate change report shares key takeaways August 9, 2021 Brown professor Baylor Fox-Kemper discusses a landmark report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, for which he served as a coordinating lead author. Read Article Open details for Brown professor who worked on massive climate change report shares key takeaways News from Brown Brown environmental expert testifies on equity in renewable energy before U.S. House committee July 16, 2021 Myles Lennon, an assistant professor of environment and society and anthropology, urged members of Congress to support renewable energy research and innovation that could aid and protect marginalized communities in the U.S. Read Article Open details for Brown environmental expert testifies on equity in renewable energy before U.S. House committee Eos Russell Receives 2020 Paleoceanography and Paleoclimatology Willi Dansgaard Award July 2, 2021 James M. Russell received the 2020 Willi Dansgaard Award at AGU’s virtual Fall Meeting 2020. The award is given in recognition of “high research impact, innovative interdisciplinary work, educational accomplishments, such as mentoring, or positive societal impact” and “exceptional promise for continued leadership in paleoceanography and paleoclimatology.” Read Article Open details for Russell Receives 2020 Paleoceanography and Paleoclimatology Willi Dansgaard Award Washington Post ‘Hard to comprehend’: Experts react to record 121 degrees in Canada June 30, 2021 The all-time high of 121 degrees set in British Columbia on Tuesday has left weather and climate experts all over the world shocked, speechless and deeply concerned about the future of the planet. Read Article Open details for ‘Hard to comprehend’: Experts react to record 121 degrees in Canada Times of India 'India's monsoon is unique — it's an enormous movement of water and energy across Earth' June 19, 2021 Steven Clemens discusses how a monsoon is made, the impacts of global warming on the rain — and why India's monsoon is special. Read Article Open details for &#039;India&#039;s monsoon is unique — it&#039;s an enormous movement of water and energy across Earth&#039; Time The Keystone XL Pipeline Has Officially Been Canceled After Opposition From Biden Administration June 10, 2021 TC Energy has ended its 16-year quest to build the Keystone XL oil pipeline, a controversial cross-border project that became a litmus test for climate activism and was blocked by President Joe Biden. Read Article Open details for The Keystone XL Pipeline Has Officially Been Canceled After Opposition From Biden Administration News from Brown Study of past South Asian monsoons suggests stronger monsoon rainfall in the future June 4, 2021 New research finds that increases in monsoon rainfall over the past million years were linked with increases in atmospheric CO2 and the import of moisture from the southern hemisphere, which suggests stronger rains in the future as CO2 levels rise. Read Article Open details for Study of past South Asian monsoons suggests stronger monsoon rainfall in the future The New York Times A Million Years of Data Confirms: Monsoons Are Likely to Get Worse June 4, 2021 The annual summer monsoon in South Asia begins this month. A new study points to more destructive storms. Read Article Open details for A Million Years of Data Confirms: Monsoons Are Likely to Get Worse PJ Media Election of Environmental Activists to Exxon Board Shakes Company to Its Foundations May 27, 2021 Things are changing in America and you either go with the flow or get left behind. Exxon Mobile Corporation had a board election yesterday and at least two “rebels” were elected. These rebels aren’t members of the downtrodden masses. They were put forward by a hedge fund, Engine 1, in an effort to force Exxon to address climate change. By the end of the day, Exxon had been shaken to its foundation Read Article Open details for Election of Environmental Activists to Exxon Board Shakes Company to Its Foundations Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists Biden’s climate report card: 4 A’s, 2 B’s, 3 Incompletes May 21, 2021 Now that we have gotten past the first few months of a Biden presidency, what has his administration’s concerted efforts accomplished? What priorities remain outstanding, and what are in need of further attention as we look toward the upcoming Glasgow Climate Change Conference this November? Read Article Open details for Biden’s climate report card: 4 A’s, 2 B’s, 3 Incompletes Fatherly How to Get Rid of the Common Toxic Chemicals Invading Your Home May 20, 2021 Everything from plastics to cosmetics leach chemicals into your home. Here’s how to purge it. Read Article Open details for How to Get Rid of the Common Toxic Chemicals Invading Your Home Gizmodo Anonymous Donors Keep the Climate Denial Machine Chugging May 18, 2021 There’s lots of talk from the GOP and fossil fuel companies these days about changing their tune and finally getting really serious about climate change. But new research shows that not much has changed in the world of organized climate denial: It’s still massively funded by mostly anonymous donors shielding major conservative actors, and money has increased at a steady churn of around 3.4% per year over the past two decades. This consistency could be the key to climate denial’s continued success. Read Article Open details for Anonymous Donors Keep the Climate Denial Machine Chugging AGU's Eos An Unbroken Record of Climate During the Age of Dinosaurs May 17, 2021 A scientific drilling project in China has retrieved a continuous history of conditions from Earth’s most recent “greenhouse” period that may offer insights about future climate scenarios. Read Article Open details for An Unbroken Record of Climate During the Age of Dinosaurs The River Radius Podcast The Book: Rivers of Power May 11, 2021 Rivers, their water and their usefulness for society has not changed. What is changing is how humans can and do move that water from source to a place of use. This episode explores great canals that are under construction, massive dams that are creating international tensions, efforts to use water over and over and over. Read Article Open details for The Book: Rivers of Power News from Brown Zanagee Artis: Promoting climate justice through environmental policy reform April 22, 2021 The Brown junior and co-founder of Zero Hour, one of the world’s first youth-led climate justice organizations, is working to preserve humankind’s future by promoting environmental policy change. Read Article Open details for Zanagee Artis: Promoting climate justice through environmental policy reform CBS News Demand for water is rapidly increasing as supply dwindles April 22, 2021 Limited access to clean water remains a struggle for millions of Americans. And lack of water access is expected to become an even greater problem in the coming years across the U.S. and around the world. Read Article Open details for Demand for water is rapidly increasing as supply dwindles Michael West Media Two Faced Facebook: how the digital giant lets Exxon, US companies, talk out both sides of their mouths April 19, 2021 Australia’s premier tax cheat Exxon is one of a number of companies in the US using conflicting Facebook ads to target both liberals and conservatives, writes Jeremy B Merrill. The left wing sees narratives extolling Exxon tackling climate change while right wing Facebook users see ads asking for support to stop regulation. Read Article Open details for Two Faced Facebook: how the digital giant lets Exxon, US companies, talk out both sides of their mouths Brown School of Public Health Humans in Public Health Podcast: Joe Braun April 6, 2021 Host Megan Hall speaks with associate professor of epidemiology Joe Braun about plastics and how everyday exposure impacts our health. Humans in Public Health is a special podcast series for National Public Health Week. Hosted by Megan Hall and brought to you by Brown University’s School of Public Health. Read Article Open details for Humans in Public Health Podcast: Joe Braun Gizmodo Hundreds of Glacial Rivers Are Pouring Into the Belly of Greenland’s Ice April 6, 2021 We use the cliched term “glacial pace” to describe something that moves really slowly. But new research shows that Greenland’s glaciers may actually be moving more rapidly than we thought thanks to rushing rivers on their surface. Read Article Open details for Hundreds of Glacial Rivers Are Pouring Into the Belly of Greenland’s Ice News from Brown What a glacial river reveals about the Greenland ice sheet April 5, 2021 New research shows that water pressure beneath a glacier influences how fast it flows, a finding that could help in predicting the pace at which glaciers slide into the ocean and drive sea level upward. Read Article Open details for What a glacial river reveals about the Greenland ice sheet Brown Alumni Magazine Students make national news by exposing who’s been funding the movement to deny climate change. April 1, 2021 In the Urban Environmental Lab, a small, unassuming building that sits behind a vegetable garden on Waterman Street, students and professors are taking on one of the most powerful forces of the past three decades: the climate denial movement. Read Article Open details for Students make national news by exposing who’s been funding the movement to deny climate change. The Boston Globe Top 10 reasons Governor McKee’s first big signing ceremony should be for Act on Climate March 30, 2021 Signing the bill into law will improve the health of residents, help secure a viable future, and bring a series of benefits such as green jobs and healthier air for Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Top 10 reasons Governor McKee’s first big signing ceremony should be for Act on Climate The Providence Journal What places in Providence are most at risk from climate change? March 26, 2021 It’s no secret that Providence is at risk from climate change. There are numerous reports detailing the vulnerability of the Port of Providence, the downtown and other low-lying areas to storm surges and tidal flooding. Other studies detail the risks of heat exposure and respiratory illnesses in such neighborhoods as Elmwood and Washington Park as temperatures rise. Read Article Open details for What places in Providence are most at risk from climate change? News from IBES Hastings' career centers diversity, inclusion, and anti-harrassment March 26, 2021 IBES fellow Meredith Hastings has helped transform her field not simply through her research, but through her advocacy on behalf of women and other marginalized groups in the sciences. Read Article Open details for Hastings&#039; career centers diversity, inclusion, and anti-harrassment The New York Times Ad Agencies Step Away From Oil and Gas in Echo of Cigarette Exodus March 25, 2021 A queasiness has set in among some people who have made ads promoting fossil fuels. One executive likened the shift to the ad industry’s move away from tobacco. Read Article Open details for Ad Agencies Step Away From Oil and Gas in Echo of Cigarette Exodus News from IBES In Memoriam: Elizabeth Lord, Lecturer in Environment and Society March 12, 2021 Elizabeth Lord, Lecturer in Environment and Society, passed away on February 8, 2021. She was 38. Read Article Open details for In Memoriam: Elizabeth Lord, Lecturer in Environment and Society News from IBES IBES Welcomes Jon Witman as an IBES Affiliate Fellow March 8, 2021 The Institute at Brown for Environment and Society is excited to welcome Professor of Biology Jon Witman as an IBES Faculty Affiliate. Read Article Open details for IBES Welcomes Jon Witman as an IBES Affiliate Fellow Meeting Street Podcast Why We Need the Environmental Humanities March 5, 2021 Humanities scholars are at the forefront of the response to climate change. In this show Amanda Anderson talks with two influential and innovative scholars in the field of the environmental humanities: Bathsheba Demuth, an environmental historian who studies the arctic North, and Macarena Gomez-Barris, a cultural critic whose work focuses on the Global South. Topics include the environmental justice movement, extractivism, ecotourism, and the nature-culture divide. Read Article Open details for Why We Need the Environmental Humanities News from Brown Humans control majority of freshwater ebb and flow on Earth, study finds March 3, 2021 Satellite observations show that more than half of seasonal freshwater level changes on Earth happen in human-managed reservoirs, underscoring the profound impact humanity has on the global water cycle. Read Article Open details for Humans control majority of freshwater ebb and flow on Earth, study finds Texas Public Radio Failure Of Power: How Millions Of Texans Were Left In The Dark March 3, 2021 When the Texas power grid failed during a historic winter storm, millions of people were left in the cold and dark. The operator of that grid, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) said they were only moments away from an absolute nightmare scenario: a statewide blackout that could have lasted weeks — or months. The storm was unprecedented — but it wasn’t unpredictable. How did this disaster happen, and what can be done to prevent a similar failure? Read Article Open details for Failure Of Power: How Millions Of Texans Were Left In The Dark National Parks Traveler Biomarkers In Ancient Alaskan Lake Sediment Could Influence Thinking About Early Beringian Migration February 28, 2021 A group of Brown University researchers, funded by the Shared Beringian Heritage Program, is tracking evidence that supports a new but disputed theory about when and how human beings first arrived on the American continent. Brown professor Yongsong Huang and his team of researchers believe they have found traces of human fecal matter and fire activity in northern Alaska dating back more than 30,000 years—thousands of years before the archaeological record indicates humans were in Alaska. Read Article Open details for Biomarkers In Ancient Alaskan Lake Sediment Could Influence Thinking About Early Beringian Migration Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page