Skip to Main Content Brown University Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Search Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Education Brown students change the world. IBES helps them save the planet. Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Education Brown students change the world. IBES helps them save the planet. Student and Alumni Spotlights IBES students and alumni are the next generation of thoughtful environmental leaders and powerful agents of change. Visit Page Undergraduate concentrations in Environmental Studies and Environmental Science are housed within IBES. These concentrations provide the breadth across environmental fields along with the disciplinary depth and practical experience needed to launch students into productive professional careers. Graduate students are supported by IBES, which provides a venue for multi-disciplinary research and education across academic units and through a host of fellowship, research and travel funding opportunities. Undergraduate environmental education at Brown has a long, prestigious history dating back to the founding of the Center for Environmental Studies in the 1970s. Undergraduate Education Many of the most pressing challenges of the 21st Century are environmental ones. These challenges are complex, multifaceted and can best be solved with expertise from multiple, relevant disciplines. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation The Institute at Brown for Environment and Society welcomes affiliation by graduate students from all disciplines whose research interests center on understanding environment and society. Visit Page Open details for Graduate Affiliation Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Education Open details for Education Bookmark this Page