Skip to Main Content Brown University Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Search Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Climate Misinformation and Climate Policy Effective climate policy in the United States is hindered by twin forces: 1) A strategic, well-funded misinformation campaign, and 2) Inertial barriers to change. IBES is positioned, through world-class leaders and funded research projects, to document and help unravel the misinformation campaign in the U.S. while providing the information and bridging the gaps needed to enact effective climate change policies. Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Unraveling Climate Misinformation Campaigns Climate Policy in U.S. States Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Climate Misinformation and Climate Policy Effective climate policy in the United States is hindered by twin forces: 1) A strategic, well-funded misinformation campaign, and 2) Inertial barriers to change. IBES is positioned, through world-class leaders and funded research projects, to document and help unravel the misinformation campaign in the U.S. while providing the information and bridging the gaps needed to enact effective climate change policies. IBES is positioned, through research funding and a newly emerging collaboration with the Watson Institute, to develop pathways that break the inertial forces that have thus far stymied broad scale adaptation of climate policy and which can lead to specific policy legislation in U.S. states. Projects Unraveling Climate Misinformation Campaigns For decades, an invisible network of actors has been operating to push narratives of climate denial and to slow, stop or roll back climate protections. Climate Policy in U.S. States One of the greatest obstacles the world faces in the fight against climate change is inertia — the force that maintains the status quo and inhibits individuals and societies from making the most impactful changes that could mitigate the effects of climate change on a large scale. News News from Brown With global scholarly network, Brown faculty to advance study of climate change countermovement October 27, 2020 The Climate Social Science Network, based at the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society, will bring together leading scholars to catalyze collaborative research on the interests that are stalling climate action. Read Article Open details for With global scholarly network, Brown faculty to advance study of climate change countermovement News from Brown Report issues climate-action recommendations for next U.S. president October 8, 2020 A report released by Brown’s Climate Solutions Lab urged the implementation of a carbon tax and a prohibition on fossil-fuel infrastructure spending, among other recommendations. Read Article Open details for Report issues climate-action recommendations for next U.S. president News from IBES Engagement in a Warming World: Tackling climate change politics from the inside out October 15, 2018 Sociologist and Ittleson Professor of Environmental Studies J. Timmons Roberts has high aspirations for his undergraduates. Read Article Open details for Engagement in a Warming World: Tackling climate change politics from the inside out People J Timmons Roberts Robert Brulle Rachel Wetts Stephen Porder H Curtis Spalding Jeff Colgan Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Climate Misinformation and Climate Policy Open details for Climate Misinformation and Climate Policy Bookmark this Page