Skip to Main Content Brown University Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Search Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Research Climate change and flooding, pathogens and poverty, conflict and extinction – these threats know no borders. Our fragile planet and its vulnerable peoples are at risk. This time of unprecedented challenge requires bold solutions and innovative thinking. Research Climate change and flooding, pathogens and poverty, conflict and extinction – these threats know no borders. Our fragile planet and its vulnerable peoples are at risk. This time of unprecedented challenge requires bold solutions and innovative thinking. The Institute and Brown for Environment and Society (IBES) understands the urgency of environmental challenges. An education and research hub, IBES harnesses academic excellence from many disciplines, from climatology and ecology to sociology and international relations. At this dynamic cross-campus center, students and faculty conduct groundbreaking research and build creative solutions to complex 21st-century problems. Our work combines an understanding of the natural world and of human societies because environmental stewardship, human rights, and economic well-being are inextricably linked. Through our unique interdisciplinary approach, IBES fosters actionable research outcomes and the change agents of tomorrow. While IBES has research strengths on a wide variety of topics, three of the most prominent revolve around the unique challenges posed by climate change. Research Strengths Climate Misinformation and Climate Policy Effective climate policy in the United States is hindered by twin forces: 1) A strategic, well-funded misinformation campaign, and 2) Inertial barriers to change. IBES is positioned, through world-class leaders and funded research projects, to document and help unravel the misinformation campaign in the U.S. while providing the information and bridging the gaps needed to enact effective climate change policies. Navigating the New Arctic Frontier No region of the world is warming faster or changing more fundamentally than the Arctic. These changes impact the region directly, but also spill over to impact the entire planet. Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Climate change is fundamentally altering the risks and approaches needed to preserve species and ecosystems worldwide. Soon, many of the species on Earth will be “climate refugees”, no longer able to survive within their historic/native ranges. Likewise, many of the human-wildlife conflicts that currently exist will be exacerbated by climate change, while the very ecosystems that all species depend on will be threatened. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Research Open details for Research Bookmark this Page