Skip to Main Content Brown University Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Search Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Undergraduate Education Breadcrumb Home Education Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Education Curriculum Honors Courses Engaged Scholarship Guide to Environmental Groups Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Climate & Development Lab IBES-based think tank founded in 2010 as an experiment in engaged learning and scholarship. learn more Undergraduate Education Many of the most pressing challenges of the 21st Century are environmental ones. These challenges are complex, multifaceted and can best be solved with expertise from multiple, relevant disciplines. We must find ways to feed a growing human population while maintaining the natural life support system provided by the Earth's ecosystems; to make built environments more efficient as urban areas continue to grow dramatically in size; and to meet the challenges posed by rising sea-level and increasing global temperatures. To prepare students to meet these challenges, the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society (IBES) offers two undergraduate degrees: an A.B. in Environmental Studies and a Sc.B. in Environmental Science. The A.B. and Sc.B. degrees vary primarily in the number of course requirements; the Sc.B. is a more in-depth treatment of a single field. Both degrees provide interdisciplinary exposure to the natural and social sciences, as well as public policy. Both degrees also develop depth in a primary field by requiring students to select one of five tracks of study. Through a rigorous set of core courses, track requirements, and a course or project-based capstone experience, our students are primed to make meaningful contributions to environmental scholarship and outreach at local, national and global scales. Contacts IBES Undergraduate Peer Advisors are available to assist with questions about the curriculum, types of support available to undergraduates, options some people may not be familiar with, and to give a fellow student's perspective. Learn about this year's group. If you have administrative questions regarding these concentrations or wish to be added to the email directory listing upcoming events, please contact Jeanne Loewenstein, the ENVS concentrations administrative manager. If you have questions regarding the curriculum, internships or environmental careers, contact the lead concentration advisor for Environmental Studies (Kurt Teichert) or the lead advisor for Environmental Science (Dawn King). Resources for ENVS Undergraduate Students Opportunities for Undergraduate Students IBES funds a variety of programs for undergraduates, including our competitive Voss Environmental Fellowships; annual high-quality, curated summer internships; and funding for summer research experiences. Visit Page Open details for Opportunities for Undergraduate Students Guide to Environmental Groups Visit Page Open details for Guide to Environmental Groups Climate & Development Lab IBES-based think tank founded in 2010 as an experiment in engaged learning and scholarship. learn more Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Research Climate Misinformation & Climate Policy Navigating the New Arctic Frontier Conservation in the Context of Climate Change Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Affiliation Student and Alumni Spotlights Sustainability Opportunities Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty People Core Faculty Elected Fellows & Affiliates Visiting Faculty Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Affiliates Administration Leadership Advisory Council News & Events News Archive Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Undergraduate Education Open details for Undergraduate Education Bookmark this Page