Skip to main content Skip to footer IBIT Home Knowledge Case studies Digital Innovation Foundry Projects and Research The IBIT Report National Information Systems Job Index Talent Mentoring Program Scholarships Temple Analytics Challenge National Cyber Analyst Challenge Professional Training Engagement Executive-in-Residence Digital Leader Fireside Chats Symposiums Small Business and Non-Profit Digital Transformation Information Technology Awards IT Advisory Board Sponsors About Annual Report 2020-2021 News Staff Advisory Board Contact Us and Directions Main Content 20th Annual IT awards The 20th annual IT awards celebrated 20 years of excellence and successes of the Management … More… The digital transformation of workforce development summit The digital transformation of workforce development summit on March 25, 2022, at Temple University … More… Agora World and LogixCxt win Digital Innovation Awards The Digital Innovation Foundry is pleased to announce that Agora World and LogixCxt are recipients … More… IBIT Annual Report 2020-2021 Dear colleagues, It is my pleasure to present the 2020-21 annual report of the Institute for … More… Case studies Case studies generate practical knowledge on digitization and digital … Read More ... about Case studies Digital Innovation Foundry The Digital Innovation Foundry (DIF) generates innovation by assessing, … Read More ... about Digital Innovation Foundry Projects and Research Faculty and student led projects offer firms world class talent to analyze … Read More ... about Projects and Research IBIT SPONSORS Leverage our knowledge, human capital, relationships, and network Learn more Mentoring Program The mentoring program matches experienced senior executives with … Read More ... about Mentoring Program Executive-in-Residence The Executive-in-Residence program facilitates interaction among … Read More ... about Executive-in-Residence Advisory Board The Advisory Board and corporate sponsors in partnership with IBIT … Read More ... about IT Advisory Board Footer Institute for Business and Information Technology 210 Speakman Hall 1810 N. 13th Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 ABOUT IBIT About Staff IT Advisory Board Sponsors News Contact us and directions Search Search this website IBIT NEWS 20th Annual IT awards The digital transformation of workforce development summit Agora World and LogixCxt win Digital Innovation Awards Sondra Barbour, Executive-in-Residence spends the day engaging with students Digital Innovation Award 9th annual IT career fair attracts 23 employers IBIT Annual Report 2020-2021 Digital Innovation Foundry Projects in 2021 MORE NEWS... Copyright © 2022 IBIT · Fox School of Business · Temple University · contact us at ibit@temple.edu