skip to main content About Faculty News & Events IBT Calendar Administration Research Centers Cores Education Contact Admissions Postdoctoral Training Program Contact Animal Resources Apply Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Home About Faculty News & Events IBT Calendar Administration Research Centers Cores Education Contact Admissions Postdoctoral Training Program Contact Animal Resources Apply Give Roderick H. Dashwood Home Faculty Roderick H. Dashwood Roderick H. Dashwood Professor & Director Contact John S. Dunn Chair in Disease Prevention 2121 W. Holcombe Blvd. Houston , TX 77030 rdashwood@tamu.edu Phone: 713.677.7806 Fax: 713.677.7784 Dashwood Lab Biography Dr. Dashwood completed schooling through bachelors, masters, and Ph.D. degrees in the U.K., and then joined Oregon State University in 1986 as a postdoctoral research associate. This began a research career focused on the molecular mechanisms of anticancer agents, including natural products and therapeutic candidates. Academic positions at the University of Hawaii were followed by sabbaticals at the National Cancer Center in Tokyo. Dr. Dashwood returned to Oregon State University in 1997 as Director of the Cancer Chemoprotection Program, and was appointed Helen P. Rumbel Professor for Cancer Prevention at the Linus Pauling Institute. His research initially focused on the genetic aspects of colorectal cancer, including key contributions in the area of Wnt/β-catenin signaling, but moved into the realm of epigenetics with the discovery of the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitory activity of sulforaphane (Myzak et al. Cancer Res 2004). In 2013, Dr. Dashwood relocated to the Texas Medical Center, as director of the Center for Epigenetics & Disease Prevention at Texas A&M College of Medicine in Houston. He has affiliated positions in the Dept. Translational Medical Sciences, Texas A&M College of Medicine, and in the Dept. Clinical Cancer Prevention, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. Current research encompasses histone and non-histone modifications, DNA methylation, and non-coding RNAs, in the continuum from computational modeling in silico, to cell-based assays and preclinical models, and into human translational studies. His curriculum vitae lists over 200 peer-reviewed publications, service on NIH study sections and journal editorial boards, and NCI-funded contracts and grants. In 2017, he was elexted Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology (London), and in 2020 he became Chair of the NIH Cancer Prevention Study Section (CPSS). Education and Training B.S. Biological Sciences (Cellular Toxicology), University of Plymouth, UK (1982) M.S. Toxicology, University of Surrey, UK (1983) Ph.D. Genetic Toxicology/Carcinogenesis, University of Portsmouth and ICI Central Toxicology Laboratory, UK (1986) Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology (2017) Research Interests The current focus is on genetic and epigenetic mechanisms in cancer development. The genetic basis of cancer is studied through cultured human cancer cells and whole animal approaches, including transgenic and knockout models. These models are employed to examine changes in oncogenes and tumor suppressors (e.g., K-ras, β-catenin, APC) and the influence of chemoprotective agents and anticancer drug candidates. The epigenetic basis of cancer is studied through work on histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors and changes in protein acetylation in both cancer cells and normal cells treated with dietary agents/anticancer drug candidates. Sulforaphane from broccoli, garlic organosulfur and organoselenium compounds and a short-chain fatty acid derived from gut fermentation of dietary fiber (butyrate) inhibit HDAC activity in human cancer cells and trigger growth arrest/apoptosis. The molecular mechanisms are pursued. To translate this work to humans, HDACs and protein acetylation changes are being examined in volunteers undergoing screening colonoscopy exams. Selected Publications Complete list of publications FacebookTwitterInstagramLinked inRSSYouTube Quick Links About IBT Director's Office Postdoctoral Association Program for Animal Resources TAMU IRB - iRIS Portal TMC Green Sheet Faculty and Staff Resources Incident & Accident Reporting Safety Office Library / PubMed Room Scheduling Human Resources Job Opportunities Facilities Security Institutions Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Contact Us Press & Media IT Help Desk Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility