About Programs News Blog Videos Research Select Page S. Craig Watkins Appointed IC² Director Congratulations and welcome from the university and IC² team! Read More 2021 Faculty Research Program Awards Congratulations to the four awarded research projects for this round of funding. Read More Home to Texas 2022 In collaboration with the School of Undergraduate Studies and Texas Career Engagement, we are sending our fourth cohort of students back to their home towns to intern, conduct research, and grow in community leadership. Learn More March Economic Madness Student Challenge 2022 Watch this year’s TEXAS inter-collegiate student challenge focused on issues facing smaller & remote communities. Watch This Toward a Well-being Economy: How IC2 is working to advance equity in social, economic & health systems Leveraging research and creating programs that promote a well-being economy with shared economic prosperity, resiliency, sustainability and a growth model that is equitable from the outset. Learn More > Director’s Statement Dr. S Craig Watkin’s statement on the strategic shift at the institute. Read More > Bureau of Business Research BBR provides communities & policymakers with evidence-based socio-economic research for a stronger and more resilient Texas. Learn More > IC2 creates opportunities for diverse research, design, civic, and entrepreneurial talent in order to bring new insights, energy, and purpose to initiatives that act to advance equity in social, economic, and health systems. Connect with IC²      VIDEO GALLERY SEE ALL VIDEOS > Broadband as a Utility – Roundtable Discussion The Role, Reality, and Future of Rural Journalism – Roundtable Discussion Ellen Ray – The Future of Rural Texas Blog SEE ALL POSTS > March Economic Madness Winners 2022 Take Community Approach to Digital Healthcare by Emily Spandikow | May 20, 2022 | Uncategorized The Team: Ariel Johnson: Senior Economics and Business Honors major, with concentrations in Real Estate and German, who will be working for State Farm after graduation Brandon Vu: Electrical and Computer Engineering Major going down a Software Engineering and Design... read more Transforming the Pitch Competition – Students Solving Community Challenges by Ridha Syed | Nov 22, 2021 | Uncategorized Traditional “Pitch” Competitions – the Company as the Unit of Innovation: Since the inception of the “pitch” competition, starting in 1984 as the Moot Corp competition (hosted by the IC2 Institute at The University of Texas at Austin), students have been encouraged... read more Leaders at Home and Beyond by Ridha Syed | Nov 14, 2021 | Uncategorized As we complete our first year working with the Home to Texas (H2TX) program, we find ourselves reflecting on what leadership looks like. We chatted with several program alumni at a recent H2TX reunion, and it’s clear that leadership has manifested itself in various... read more « Older Entries News SEE ALL NEWS & EVENTS > George Kozmetsky Student Challenge 2021: UT Austin Students Deliver Innovative Ways to Nourish Texas Communities George Kosmetsky Student Challenge 2021 On Saturday October 23rd, nine teams of students from 13 schools and colleges on UT Austin’s campus came together to showcase their innovative solutions for small and rural communities of Texas. The teams grappled with ways... read more Local Companies Share Growth Plans and Value with Community Leaders in Small.biz-XLR8 Pitch Presentations Small-biz.XLR8 participants, mentors and facilitators celebrate the end of the program on Aug 17, 2021 at the CEED Building at The University of Texas Permian Basin. With the continued pressure of the pandemic and unpredictable nature of energy prices, summer 2021... read more UT Austin Team Wins March Economic Madness On Saturday, the finals of March Economic Madness, UT’s inter-scholastic team competition, were held. Four student teams from UT Austin and UT Permian Basin presented their proposals to address problems of small or remote communities, and one team was named this... read more « Older Entries Get Involved Donate Friends of IC² Connect with IC² Contact 2815 San Gabriel St Austin, Texas 78705 512-475-8900 info@ic2.utexas.edu Subscribe to our Mailing List About Programs News Blog Videos Research Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS © The IC² Institute, The University of Texas at Austin 2021 Web Privacy Policy - Web Accessibility Policy