LanguageAfrikaansAlbanianAmharicArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoChichewaChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)CorsicanCroatianCzechDanishDutchEnglishEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchFrisianGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHawaiianHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKazakhKhmerKoreanKurdish (Kurmanji)KyrgyzLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianLuxembourgishMacedonianMalagasyMalayMalayalamMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianMyanmar (Burmese)NepaliNorwegianPashtoPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianRussianSamoanScottish GaelicSerbianSesothoShonaSindhiSinhalaSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSudaneseSwahiliSwedishTajikTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduUzbekVietnameseWelshXhosaYiddishYorubaZulu 3 Tools & Resources Student Resources Careers Newsletter Signup 2020 Impact Report DONATE NOW Who We Are About Leadership Statement on Racism and Injustice Timeline What We Do Overview Our Focus Areas COVID-19 HIV/AIDS Tuberculosis Maternal & Child Health Malaria Non-Communicable Diseases Health Systems Human Resources for Health Quality Improvement Infection Prevention & Control Surveys Laboratory Strengthening Where We Work Countries Angola Brazil Burundi Cameroon Colombia Cote d’ Ivoire El Salvador Eswatini Ethiopia DRC Georgia Ghana Guatemala Haiti Honduras Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Kenya Liberia Lesotho Malawi Mauritania Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nigeria Panama Peru Philippines Rwanda Senegal Sierra Leone South Africa South Sudan Tajikistan Uganda Tanzania Ukraine United States Zambia Zimbabwe Programs CQUIN EAIPC Global TA ICAP CTU OpCon OPTIMIZE PHIA PRI QICIP RISE RTSL TRACE News & Events Tools & Resources Student Resources Careers Newsletter Signup DONATE NOW Who We Are About Leadership Statement on Racism and Injustice Timeline What We Do Overview Our Focus Areas COVID-19 HIV/AIDS Tuberculosis Maternal & Child Health Malaria Non-Communicable Diseases Health Systems Human Resources for Health Quality Improvement Infection Prevention & Control Surveys Laboratory Strengthening Where We Work Countries Angola Brazil Burundi Cameroon Colombia Cote d’ Ivoire El Salvador Eswatini Ethiopia DRC Georgia Ghana Guatemala Haiti Honduras Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Kenya Liberia Lesotho Malawi Mauritania Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nigeria Panama Peru Philippines Rwanda Senegal Sierra Leone South Africa South Sudan Tajikistan Uganda Tanzania Ukraine United States Zambia Zimbabwe Programs CQUIN EAIPC Global TA ICAP CTU OpCon OPTIMIZE PHIA PRI QICIP RISE RTSL TRACE News & Events Tools & Resources Student Resources Careers Newsletter Signup DONATE NOW Lesotho Where We Work Lesotho Angola Brazil Burundi Cameroon Colombia Cote d’Ivoire DRC El Salvador Eswatini Ethiopia Georgia Ghana Guatemala Honduras Haiti Kazakhstan Kenya Kyrgyzstan Lesotho Liberia Malawi MauritaniaMozambique Myanmar Namibia Nigeria Panama Peru Philippines Rwanda SenegalSierra Leone South Africa South Sudan Tajikistan Tanzania Uganda Ukraine United States Zambia Zimbabwe Lesotho ICAP has worked in Lesotho since 2005, collaborating with national governments, district health management teams, individual health facilities, educational institutions, and local non-governmental organizations to strengthen health systems. Currently, ICAP in Lesotho is supporting the Ministry of Health in strengthening strategic information for health by providing technical assistance and resources to its national health system. Projects include transforming Health Information Systems (HIS); conducting a Lesotho HIV Impact Assessment Survey (LePHIA2020); Tracking new HIV infections with Recency Assays to Control the Epidemic (TRACE), Expanding Access to Quality Laboratory Service (EQUALS), and supporting the Ministry of Health on the COVID-19 response including Infection Prevention and Control (IPC), Laboratory Assistance, and Data Management. Projects Current Current Month Date Title Status All Completed Current Soon to Launch Program Affiliation All HPTN MTCT-Plus CTU COVID MCAP UTAP Global TA PHIA QICIP TRACE CQUIN GNCBP OpCon OPTIMIZE Project Location All Mozambique Angola Senegal Panama Honduras El Salvador Harlem Bronx Burundi Liberia Colombia & Peru Philippines Brazil Guatemala Georgia Haiti China Cameroon Côte d’Ivoire Democratic Republic of the Congo Lesotho Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Kenya Namibia Ethiopia Nigeria Rwanda Tajikistan Malawi Sierra Leone Zimbabwe Tanzania Eswatini South Sudan Mali South Africa Uganda Zambia United States Ukraine Myanmar Central Asia COVID-19 Data Management Project Details ICAP is providing technical assistance to develop and implement a district health information system (DHIS2)-based COVID-19 registry. With funding from the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through Project Details ICAP is providing technical assistance to develop and implement a district health information system (DHIS2)-based COVID-19 registry. With funding from the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC), ICAP will support the Lesotho Ministry of Health to roll out the registry in 10 districts. This system will capture COVID-19 vaccination data at facility, community, and district-levels. The ministry will use the data to monitor vaccine coverage. The project will also support ministry of health capacity at the national, district and facility levels to establish and maintain a functional high-quality data system across the country. http://www.covid19.gov.ls/covax Electronic Register for HIV and TB Project Details ICAP is providing technical assistance to develop, establish infrastructure for, pilot, and roll out an open-source electronic health record (eRegister) to capture, manage, and utilize client-level data throughout the HIV, Project Details ICAP is providing technical assistance to develop, establish infrastructure for, pilot, and roll out an open-source electronic health record (eRegister) to capture, manage, and utilize client-level data throughout the HIV, prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT), and TB care cascade. With funding from the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC), ICAP is collaborating with the Ministry of Health, and other implementing partners to expand the eRegister to 182 facilities where more than 92 percent of people living with HIV in Lesotho receive services. The eRegister roll-out will enable the Ministry of Health to access high-quality real-time data on an ongoing basis, providing the capacity to uniquely identify and track people living with HIV across the 90-90-90 epidemic control cascade within PEPFAR-supported facilities. The system will also generate accurate report indicators over time to guide clinicians in providing quality HIV care and treatment services. https://hiels.gov.ls/bahmni/home/ Health Information Exchange (HIE) Project Details ICAP is providing technical assistance to develop and establish infrastructure for the pilot, and roll out of a web based open-source health information exchange (HIE) platform. With funding from the U.S. Project Details ICAP is providing technical assistance to develop and establish infrastructure for the pilot, and roll out of a web based open-source health information exchange (HIE) platform. With funding from the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the HIE will enhance and complement Lesotho’s electronic health record (eRegister) system by identifying and tracking the movement of HIV patients across health facilities, de-duplicating multiple health records of an individual, identifying silent health facility transfers, and facilitating the sharing of information among health care providers for better care continuity. The HIE will also generate accurate reports on the ongoing scale-up and uptake of antiretroviral therapy (ART) and retention in ART programs. https://devbukanals.org/ ITF – COVID-19 Response Project Details Funded by U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) emergency International Task Force (ITF) funds, ICAP is providing technical expertise in infection prevention and control, surveillance, procurement, and clinical Project Details Funded by U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) emergency International Task Force (ITF) funds, ICAP is providing technical expertise in infection prevention and control, surveillance, procurement, and clinical services in support of the Ministry of Health’s national response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Population-based HIV Impact Assessment (PHIA) Project Details ICAP is providing technical assistance to the Lesotho Ministry of Health to conduct the Lesotho Population-based HIV Impact Assessment (LePHIA) survey to assess HIV prevalence, incidence, and access to HIV Project Details ICAP is providing technical assistance to the Lesotho Ministry of Health to conduct the Lesotho Population-based HIV Impact Assessment (LePHIA) survey to assess HIV prevalence, incidence, and access to HIV prevention, care, and treatment services. The survey includes household-based interviews and HIV counseling and testing for adults and children. Survey findings will be used to assess the impact of Lesotho’s HIV response at the national level, and to help guide and target future investment and programs. The initiative is funded by the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Find out more at phia.icap.columbia.edu Resolve to Save LivesDistricts (or national):Mafeteng Project Details ICAP has launched a multi-country emergency response training initiative to prepare health care workers on the front lines of the COVID-19 response, funded by Resolve to Save Lives, an initiative Project Details ICAP has launched a multi-country emergency response training initiative to prepare health care workers on the front lines of the COVID-19 response, funded by Resolve to Save Lives, an initiative of Vital Strategies. In Lesotho, ICAP is implementing an innovative, high-impact training initiative targeting district health management teams and frontline health care workers (HCW) in 4 districts. The trainings will build the competence and confidence of frontline HCW to safely identify, report and support people with COVID-19, implement effective infection prevention and control (IPC) activities, and serve as a trusted source of reliable information for communities impacted by the pandemic. . Strengthening Strategic Information Activities in the Kingdom of Lesotho Project Details With a five-year cooperative agreement from PEPFAR through the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC), ICAP provides technical assistance to develop a web-based health management information system (HMIS) with IT Project Details With a five-year cooperative agreement from PEPFAR through the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC), ICAP provides technical assistance to develop a web-based health management information system (HMIS) with IT and infrastructure support in Lesotho. The nationwide rollout of the system will support facility- and district-level data entry and data management for use at all facility, district, and central levels to strengthen evidence-based planning and monitoring of health programs and policies. The project also supports the Lesotho Ministry of Health with planning and coordination, implementing routine HIV surveillance, and maintaining an up-to-date master facility list with precise, unique facility identifiers and GPS coordinates. These activities transformed the fragmented paper-based HMIS into a robust DHIS2 based streamlined electronic system, building the Lesotho MOH HIS capacity at the national level and maintaining a functional system across the country. View Key Findings Report here http://hmis.gov.ls/dhis Tracking with Recency Assays to Control the Epidemic (TRACE) Project Details TRACE aims to establish epidemiological data surveillance systems to monitor the HIV epidemic in real-time—allowing countries to prevent new HIV infections through precise prevention efforts, as well as targeted interventions Project Details TRACE aims to establish epidemiological data surveillance systems to monitor the HIV epidemic in real-time—allowing countries to prevent new HIV infections through precise prevention efforts, as well as targeted interventions to improve treatment adherence and retention in HIV care. With funding from the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), ICAP is working in collaboration with CDC, ministries of health, and local organizations to roll out rapid HIV recency testing in selected high-burden countries. Learn more on the TRACE project page Completed Current Month Date Title Status All Completed Current Soon to Launch Program Affiliation All HPTN MTCT-Plus CTU COVID MCAP UTAP Global TA PHIA QICIP TRACE CQUIN GNCBP OpCon OPTIMIZE Project Location All Mozambique Angola Senegal Panama Honduras El Salvador Harlem Bronx Burundi Liberia Colombia & Peru Philippines Brazil Guatemala Georgia Haiti China Cameroon Côte d’Ivoire Democratic Republic of the Congo Lesotho Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Kenya Namibia Ethiopia Nigeria Rwanda Tajikistan Malawi Sierra Leone Zimbabwe Tanzania Eswatini South Sudan Mali South Africa Uganda Zambia United States Ukraine Myanmar Central Asia Accelerating Children on Treatment (ACT) Initiative Project Details With funding from the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), ICAP collaborated with the Lesotho Ministry of Health to Project Details With funding from the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), ICAP collaborated with the Lesotho Ministry of Health to conduct three HIV treatment evaluations for children across five districts (Berea, Leribe, Mafeteng, Maseru, and Mohale’s Hoek). The evaluations were related to pediatric HIV testing, linkage to care, and retention. The Ministry of Health used data from the three evaluations to make strategic decisions to improve pediatric HIV testing, link care, and referral and retention in HIV care and treatment programs. Enhanced HIV Prevention in Couples Study (EPIC) (2009 - 2015) Project Details The EPIC study focused on feasibility/acceptability research and modeling work to inform the design of a future multi-component study for the prevention of HIV transmission in discordant couples in Lesotho. Project Details The EPIC study focused on feasibility/acceptability research and modeling work to inform the design of a future multi-component study for the prevention of HIV transmission in discordant couples in Lesotho. (funded by the NIH) Global Nurse Capacity Building Program (GNCBP), Nursing Education Partnership Initiative (NEPI) Project Details The Global Nurse Capacity Building Program (GNCBP) was a multi-year program (2009-2018) to increase the quantity and quality of the nursing and midwifery workforce by addressing seven domains of health Project Details The Global Nurse Capacity Building Program (GNCBP) was a multi-year program (2009-2018) to increase the quantity and quality of the nursing and midwifery workforce by addressing seven domains of health workforce development: infrastructure, curriculum, faculty, clinical skills, production, in-service training, and partnership for policy and regulation. The program used a holistic approach to strengthen nursing and midwifery education and practice through two complementary sub-projects: the Nursing Education Partnership Initiative (NEPI), which expanded the health workforce by producing new nurses and midwives, and the General Nursing (GN) project, which supported the maintenance of a skilled health workforce through continuing professional development in support of HIV care and treatment. GNCBP was administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), under the U.S Department of Health and Human Services, with funding from the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). Find the GNCBP final report here Find out more about NEPI and General Nursing Global Technical Assistance Project Details ICAP provided support and technical expertise to the national public health system in the following areas: Supported a national HIV drug resistance survey to assess prevalence and patterns of acquired Project Details ICAP provided support and technical expertise to the national public health system in the following areas: Supported a national HIV drug resistance survey to assess prevalence and patterns of acquired drug resistance and pre-treatment drug resistance. Supported the enhancement and expansion of a national District Health Information System (DHIS2) data warehouse to support HIV surveillance. Helped develop a customized electronic HIV patient register and supported capacity building. Assisted in estimating the national prevalence of physical, emotional, and sexual violence perpetrated against boys and girls in Lesotho with the Violence Against Children Survey. Supported the evaluation of the HIV treatment cascade among pediatric populations and systems strengthening for tracking children living with HIV. Supported the evaluation of integrated Tuberculosis (TB)/HIV services in health facilities in Lesotho including support for improved TB infection control. Helped establish a public-private partnership between the Lesotho Ministry of Health and mining companies to provide treatment for workers and strengthen Lesotho’s National TB Program. Find out more on the Global Technical Assistance Project Page HIV Drug Resistance Survey Project Details ICAP collaborated with the Ministry of Health and U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to assess the frequency and pattern of HIV drug resistance among people living with HIV. A Project Details ICAP collaborated with the Ministry of Health and U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to assess the frequency and pattern of HIV drug resistance among people living with HIV. A total of 1,400 people were surveyed in 30 health facilities using a cross-sectional survey. The Lesotho Ministry of Health will use the data for policy- and decision-making, revision of the clinical guidelines, and site-level programmatic improvement. Access end of project report here. MTCT-Plus Expansion Project Details The MTCT-Plus Initiative, the world’s first multi-country HIV treatment program, aimed to demonstrate to a disbelieving world that it was possible to provide care and antiretroviral (ARV) treatment in resource-limited Project Details The MTCT-Plus Initiative, the world’s first multi-country HIV treatment program, aimed to demonstrate to a disbelieving world that it was possible to provide care and antiretroviral (ARV) treatment in resource-limited settings, using programs to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) as an entry point. In December 2003, the MTCT-Plus Secretariat in New York (the precursor to ICAP, headed by ICAP’s Wafaa El-Sadr and Elaine Abrams) received its first grant from then-new President’s Emergency Program For AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). Four years later, the MTCT-Plus Initiative of Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health was providing HIV care and treatment for nearly 17,000 people at 14 sites in nine countries. MTCT-Plus received expansion funding from USAID in 2003 and 2006. By 2010, ICAP had provided HIV care and treatment to more than one million people. Find the MTCT-Plus and MTCT-Plus Expansion reports here. PrEP Feasibility Study Project Details ICAP conducted a study to assess the acceptability and feasibility of providing PrEP to the wives of migrant miners prior to their husbands’ annual visit. Project Details ICAP conducted a study to assess the acceptability and feasibility of providing PrEP to the wives of migrant miners prior to their husbands’ annual visit. Preventing Childhood Tuberculosis in Lesotho (PREVENT) Study Project Details ICAP conducted an innovative, mixed-methods, cluster-randomized implementation science study that aimed to evaluate the effectiveness and acceptability of a combination community-based intervention versus the standard of care to identify and Project Details ICAP conducted an innovative, mixed-methods, cluster-randomized implementation science study that aimed to evaluate the effectiveness and acceptability of a combination community-based intervention versus the standard of care to identify and screen child contacts of adult TB cases in Berea District, Lesotho, and provide those eligible with Isoniazid Preventive Therapy. This study leveraged ICAP’s partnership with the Lesotho MOH and holistically addresses the complex provider-, patient-, and caregiver-related barriers to prevention of childhood TB through: nurse training and mentorship; health education for caregivers and patients by village health workers; adherence support using text messaging and village health workers; and multidisciplinary team meetings. (funded by NIAID) Provide Miner-Friendly Services for Integrated TB/HIV Care (PROMISE) Study Project Details ICAP conducted implementation science research to evaluate the effectiveness, feasibility, and acceptability of family-focused, integrated TB and HIV services among migrant miners and their families. Specifically, the study sought to Project Details ICAP conducted implementation science research to evaluate the effectiveness, feasibility, and acceptability of family-focused, integrated TB and HIV services among migrant miners and their families. Specifically, the study sought to understand links between expanded, tailored services to populations most-at-risk for HIV and TB and improved early detection and treatment initiation of HIV and concurrent isoniazid preventive therapy among migrant miners and their families. This intervention leveraged ICAP’s partnership with TEBA Limited, an employment agency for miners, and includes structural, clinical, and psychosocial components, including service provision at TEBA offices and real-time adherence support using SMS text messaging and lay counselors. The initiative was funded by the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Southern Africa Tuberculosis and Health Systems Support (SATBHSS) Project Project Details ICAP, in partnership with the Lesotho Ministry of Health, and support from the World Bank, supported the strengthening of the health sector’s response to TB and occupational lung diseases. ICAP Project Details ICAP, in partnership with the Lesotho Ministry of Health, and support from the World Bank, supported the strengthening of the health sector’s response to TB and occupational lung diseases. ICAP supported the implementation of a cross-border notification and referral system and provision of integrated TB/HIV screening, diagnosis, care, and treatment services at points of care within three regional employment offices that miners routinely visit. This regional project was launched in 2016. Strategic Timing of Antiretroviral Treatment (START Study) (2012 - 2016) Project Details The START study was a cluster site-randomized trial that evaluated a combination intervention package versus the current standard of care with the goal of improving early ART initiation and retention Project Details The START study was a cluster site-randomized trial that evaluated a combination intervention package versus the current standard of care with the goal of improving early ART initiation and retention rates during TB treatment, as well as TB treatment success, among HIV-infected TB patients in Lesotho. (funded by PEPFAR through USAID) View the End-of-Project brief here Strengthening TB/HIV Integration under PEPFAR (2009 – 2015) Project Details ICAP collaborated with Lesotho’s Ministry of Health to integrate TB and HIV services at every level of the health system, enabling a more coordinated response to the nation’s dual TB/HIV Project Details ICAP collaborated with Lesotho’s Ministry of Health to integrate TB and HIV services at every level of the health system, enabling a more coordinated response to the nation’s dual TB/HIV epidemic. ICAP supported the development of national-level policies and guidelines and enhanced capacity at the district and health facility level to implement and scale-up services. (funded by the CDC) View the End-of-Project brief here Supporting Point of Care TB/HIV Centers for Migrant Miners Project Details ICAP collaborated with the Ministry of Health to increase access to TB and HIV services for miners and ex-miners in Lesotho, aiming to improve coverage and quality of TB control Project Details ICAP collaborated with the Ministry of Health to increase access to TB and HIV services for miners and ex-miners in Lesotho, aiming to improve coverage and quality of TB control and occupational lung disease services and to strengthen regional capacity to manage the burden of TB and occupational diseases. The initiative was funded by the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). TB Care and Treatment for Miners (2009 – 2015) Project Details To address high rates of TB among Lesotho’s migrant workers, ICAP forged a public-private partnership with TEBA, the country’s largest mining recruitment company. The project established clinics at TEBA offices Project Details To address high rates of TB among Lesotho’s migrant workers, ICAP forged a public-private partnership with TEBA, the country’s largest mining recruitment company. The project established clinics at TEBA offices in Maseru, Mafeteng, and Leribe as non-traditional points of care providing TB rapid testing, same-day diagnosis, and treatment. ICAP-trained TEBA care providers to conduct TB contact tracing and support retention in care among miners and their families. (funded by TB Reach/WHO) View the End-of-Project brief here Violence Against Children and Youth Survey (VACS) Project Details ICAP supported the CDC to lead this nationally representative household survey to measure the prevalence, 12-month incidence, and circumstances surrounding sexual, physical, and emotional violence in childhood, adolescence, and young Project Details ICAP supported the CDC to lead this nationally representative household survey to measure the prevalence, 12-month incidence, and circumstances surrounding sexual, physical, and emotional violence in childhood, adolescence, and young adulthood. The surveys, part of the Together for Girls Partnership, also identified risk factors, protective factors, and health consequences of violence, such as substance use and health risk behaviors, and helped assess use of support services post-violence. The survey was administered to males and females aged 13 to 24. Participants were offered an HIV test, and those who tested positive were linked to treatment. The project team conducted over 8,000 interviews and 7,000 HIV tests at 240 enumeration areas with a response rate of 97 percent. View the report ICAP in Lesotho Program Start 2005 Key Technical Areas Comprehensive HIV Care and Treatment Programs Tuberculosis Maternal and Child Health/Prevention of Mother to Child HIV Transmission (PMTCT) Health Systems Strengthening/Health Information Systems Human Resources for Health: Capacity building of Nursing and Midwifery Educational Institutions Nursing Education Partnership Initiative (NEPI) Global Nurse Capacity Building Program (GNCBP) Quality Improvement COVID-19 Response SARS-CoV-2 Testing Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) Lesotho Cellphone Influenza-like Illness Participatory Surveillance Monitoring and evaluation Population-based surveys Operational and implementation science Research Surveillance Accelerating Children on Treatment (ACT) Initiative HIV Laboratory Support Current Funders PEPFAR / Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) CDC ITF Country Director Felix Ndagije, MD, MSc Dr. Felix Ndagije is a global health professional with over 20 years of experience in the design, implementation, evaluation, and scale-up of HIV prevention, care, and treatment programs with ministries of health, implementing partners, United Nations agencies, and CDC/PEPFAR. He has technical expertise in health systems strengthening, maternal and child health programs, TB/HIV, and non-communicable diseases. Dr. Ndagije first joined ICAP as an Evaluation and Research Advisor in Rwanda in 2005. He re-joined ICAP in Lesotho in May 2016, where he pivoted to serve as a Senior Regional Technical Advisor for Clinical and Training supporting a number of projects in multiple ICAP countries. From January 2019, he served as Country Director for ICAP in Lesotho, managing a number of key technical and representational requirements in the country. Dr. Ndagije earned his medical degree from the National University of Rwanda and he possesses a Master’s degree in Global Health; and a Master’s degree in Tropical Pediatrics and Child Health from the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, University of Liverpool. Jobs in Lesotho For international ICAP job listings see careers at ICAPACITY Recent ICAP News News May 27, 2022 Wafaa El-Sadr Awarded Columbia University Butler Medal for Service to the Community Wafaa El-Sadr, MD, MPH, MPA, ICAP founder and director, was one of 21 members of the Columbia University President’s... Read More News May 26, 2022 Pandemic Response Institute Brings New York City a Powerful New Resource to Meet Major Health Crises As it has done across the globe, the COVID-19 pandemic has exacted a severe toll on New York City.... Read More News May 25, 2022 ICAP Partners with Resolve to Save Lives to Improve Infection Prevention and Control in Sierra Leone In Sierra Leone, ICAP at Columbia University is supporting the improvement of infection prevention and control (IPC) practices across... Read More ICAP Home What We Do Our Focus Areas Where We Work News & Events Leadership History ICAP Resources Careers Student Resources Tools & Resources Programs CQUIN Global TA HPTN OpCon OPTIMIZE PHIA QICIP TRACE ICAP is part of Contact Privacy Policy Donate ©2004-2022 Columbia Mailman School of Public Health Stay Connected ...to help improve the health of families and communities X This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors’ experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University’s usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice.OK