Home (current) Programs All Programs & Events Propose a Program Summer@ICERM Collaborate@ICERM GirlsGetMath@ICERM REUF Your Visit ICERM Facilities Traveling to ICERM Financial Support Explore Providence Professional Development Technology Resources IT Documentation Videos Video Archive Live Stream MathBytes About About ICERM NSF Support Directors & Staff Advisory Boards Postdocs & Researchers Diversity Jobs News Support ICERM Technology Resources Overview Internet & Printing Lecture Spaces Office Technology HPC IT Policies Overview Internet & Printing Lecture Spaces Office Technology HPC IT Policies Technology Resources Navigate Page Back to Top Overview Internet & Printing Lecture Spaces Office Technology HPC IT Policies Overview Welcome to ICERM. We hope your stay is a productive one. In order to facilitate the research process, ICERM has a full suite of technology available for visitor use. Below you'll find useful information for your stay. If you have any questions or you can't find the information you're looking for, please feel free to contact me. Thank you, Mathew Borton, Director of Information Technology Setup Instructions for Wireless Internet and Printing ICERM provides wireless internet access and printing for all visitors. See the IT Documentation site for detailed setup procedures. Brown Wireless For short visits of less than two weeks, the "Brown-Guest" network is available without a password. Long-term visitors will be issued a Brown ID, which provides credentials for the secure "Brown" network. For setup instructions, please see the wireless access page of our IT Documentation. Eduroam The "eduroam" wireless network is available for members of participating institutions. Eduroam must be set up at your home institution prior to arriving at ICERM. Printing The 11th floor Canon copier and both 10th floor LaserJet printers are equipped with wireless printing capability. Details about the various printers and their capabilities are available on our Printing Documentation. OS-specific instructions are available for macOS, Linux and Windows. Lecture and Conference Spaces Lecture Hall Conference Room Seminar Classroom The audio/visual systems in ICERM's meeting spaces have been designed to provide maximum flexibility to meet varying presentation styles and needs. All three spaces are equipped with Apple desktop computers and external laptop connections. If you plan to use your own machine, we recommend consulting the IT staff prior to your presentation time in order to ensure compatibility. Instructions for basic operation of the audio-visual systems in all three rooms are available on the AV Systems section of the IT Documentation. Lecture Hall Our preferred method is to bring your presentation on a USB drive. HDMI connections are available for presenting from a laptop along with USB-C adapters. The lecture hall has integrated Zoom Room capabilities for hybrid lectures. Sessions in the lecture hall can be recorded using the Panopto lecture capture system. Please contact the IT staff for details. Conference Room The conference room is available for small sessions. The room has an iMac for presentations along with a HDMI input for personal laptops. The conference room has an integrated Zoom Room capabilities. Please contact the program staff to schedule use. Seminar Classroom The 10th floor seminar room is a classroom setting. A Mac Mini is available for presentations along with an HDMI connection for laptops. A blu-ray player is also available. Please contact the program staff to schedule use. Office Technology ICERM provides thin clients in all offices as well as in the common areas for visitor use. The thin clients run a limited thin version of Linux and provide open access to a web browser, SSH terminal and printing capability. ICERM provides access to virtual Linux desktops to long-term visitors (those who are issued a Brown ID) via Virtual Network Computing (VNC) through Brown's Center for Computation and Visualization. The VNC client has access to CCV's full library of software programs and modules. VNC access may be provided to short-term visitors as well on a case-by-case basis and with advance notice. High-performance Computing High-performance computing is available to long-term ICERM visitors upon request through Brown's Center for Computation and Visualization. CCV's supercomputing cluster "Oscar" has over 400 compute nodes providing over 650 teraflops of computing power and a large library of preinstalled software modules. For more information about Oscar, please see the Oscar page of our IT Documentation. In addition, CCV has the full Oscar User Manual available on their website. Please see ICERM's IT staff to request access. IT Policies ICERM follows Brown University's polices for computing practices. The following policies are specific to ICERM: Website Accessibility If you encounter web content that you are unable to access due to a web accessibility issue, please contact support@icerm.brown.edu to report the issue. Recording Policy While ICERM records all workshop and tutorial lectures we will only post your lecture in our video archive after receiving your signed video release form. Requests for lecture capture at other times will be considered on a case-by-case basis. The full Recording and Live Streaming Policy is available on the IT Policies section of our IT Documentation. ICERM 121 South Main Street, Box E 11th Floor Providence, RI 02903 info@icerm.brown.edu +1 (401) 863-5030