Home (current) Programs All Programs & Events Propose a Program Summer@ICERM Collaborate@ICERM GirlsGetMath@ICERM REUF Your Visit ICERM Facilities Traveling to ICERM Financial Support Explore Providence Professional Development Technology Resources IT Documentation Videos Video Archive Live Stream MathBytes About About ICERM NSF Support Directors & Staff Advisory Boards Postdocs & Researchers Diversity Jobs News Support ICERM Postdoctoral Fellows and Researchers ICERM’s postdoctoral and researcher program brings early career mathematicians to the institute in order to support and expand their research and to create lasting career collaborations and connections. ICERM hires two categories of postdoctoral researchers: "Semester" postdoctoral fellows who participate in a single semester program, and a smaller number of "Institute" postdoctoral fellows who stay at ICERM for an academic year. Check mathjobs.org for all current postdoctoral job postings. Research Associates are hired through funding from a Mathematics-Simons Collaboration on Arithmetic Geometry, Number Theory, and Computation, which is part of a collaboration with PIs at Boston University, Harvard, Dartmouth, and Brown. Learn more about the Simons research associate job postings. Antonio Alfieri Spring Semester Postdoc 2022 Website Antonio Alfieri wrote his thesis under the supervision of prof. Andras I. Stipsicz and prof. Andras Nemethi. After a period at University of Britrish Columbia in Vancouver, where he worked in the Topology and Combinatorics group, he became CRM-ISM post-doctoral fellow in Montreal (UQAM and McGill University). He is interested in low-dimensional topology, foliations, gauge theory (instanton Floer homology), symplectic topology (Lagrangian Floer homology), and some aspects of algebraic geometry (singularity theory, lattice cohomology, character varieties of 3-manifold groups). Steven Amelotte ICERM Bridge Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Steven Amelotte’s research interests lie in algebraic topology with a focus on unstable homotopy theory, toric topology and its interactions with combinatorial commutative algebra. After receiving his Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Toronto in 2018 under the supervision of Paul Selick, he worked as a Visiting Assistant Professor at the University of Rochester (2018-2021). Steven’s thesis work investigated homotopy decompositions of spaces closely related to spheres and their loop spaces. While continuing work in this direction, he is currently interested in the topology of moment-angle manifolds and other toric spaces and their relations to combinatorial and homological properties of Stanley-Reisner rings. Steven will be an ICERM Bridge Postdoc for the 2021/2022 academic year. Justin (Yi-Chang) Chen ICERM Bridge Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Justin Chen received his Ph.D. in Mathematics from the University of California, Berkeley in 2018 under the supervision of David Eisenbud. He is interested in various topics in commutative algebra and algebraic geometry, including free resolutions, unit groups, and primary decomposition. His work is particularly focused on computational aspects, and he has written multiple packages for the computer algebra system Macaulay2. Justin was a postdoc at Georgia Tech from 2018-2021, and will be an ICERM Bridge postdoc in 2021-2022. Lei Chen Spring Semester Postdoc 2022 Website My name is Lei and I am from University of Maryland, College Park. My advisor is Benson Farb at Chicago, and I did my postdoc at Caltech working with Vlad Markovic. I am working on dynamical systems, geometric group theory and infinite dimensional topological groups. In particular, I study mapping class groups, braid groups and homeo/diffeomorphism groups. I am very happy to spend a whole semester at ICERM spring 2022. Fabien Cléry Senior Research Associate, 2020-2022 Website Fabien Cléry received his Ph.D. in 2009 from the University of Lille 1. Since then, he has held positions at the University of Amsterdam, the University of Hannover, the University of Siegen, the Max Planck Institute for Mathematics in Bonn, and the University of Loughborough. His research interests are on two types of modular forms focusing on the theory but also on computational aspects. The two types of modular forms that he is currently studying are Siegel modular forms and Picard modular forms. Fabien is working as a Senior Research Associate David as part of the Simons Collaboration on Arithmetic Geometry, Number Theory, and Computation. Stefan Czimek Institute Postdoc, 2020-2022 Website Dr. Stefan Czimek's research interests are in the field of mathematical analysis of the Einstein equations, with a particular focus on problems at the intersection of analysis of PDE, differential geometry and theoretical physics. Among other results, he developed new methods for (1) the construction of solutions to the spacelike constraint equations, (2) the characteristic Cauchy problem in low regularity (at the level of L2-integrable curvature), and (3) the classification of conservation laws in general relativity. After earning his Bachelor’s and Master’s degree from ETH Zurich, sponsored by the university’s Excellence Scholarship, Stefan Czimek received his doctorate at the Université Pierre-et-Marie-Curie (Paris 6) in 2017. Since then he has held positions at the Field Institute for Research in the Mathematical Sciences and the University of Toronto. He will stay at the ICERM as an “Institute Postdoc” for the academic year 2020/21 in connection with the semester program “Advances in Computational Relativity”. Louise Gassot Institute Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Louise Gassot's research interests lie in the field of dispersive partial differential equations, and focus on the long time behavior of solutions. She received her PhD in 2021 under the supervision of Patrick Gérard. She studies the Schrödinger equation on the Heisenberg group, in order to better understand the influence of geometry on the qualitative properties of solutions. She also uses the integrability of the Benjamin-Ono equation in the study of related Benjamin-Ono type equations. She will stay at ICERM as an "Institute Postdoc" for the academic year 2021-2022 in connection with the semester program "Hamiltonian Methods in Dispersive and Wave Evolution Equations". Jonathan Johnson Spring Semester Postdoc 2022 Website Jonathan Johnson's research interest lie in 3-manifold topology and knot theory. In particular, his research focuses on the bi-orderability of link groups. He received a Ph.D. from the University of Texas at Austin under the supervision of Cameron Gordon. Currently, Jonathan is a Postdoc at Oklahoma State University. During the spring of 2022, Jonathan will be a Semester Postdoc at ICERM participating in the "Braids" program. Jonathan is an avid sports fan and loves to play board games. Sudipta Kolay Institute Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Sudipta Kolay's research interests are in geometry and topology, with a particular focus on higher dimensional knots and braids. He received his PhD in Mathematics at Georgia Tech in 2021 under the supervision of John Etnyre. He will be at ICERM as an Institute Postdoc for the academic year 2021-22 associated with the semester program "Braids". David Lowry-Duda Senior Research Associate, 2019-2022 Website David Lowry-Duda’s research interests primarily lie in analytic number theory, and in particular on automorphic forms and L-functions. During his PhD, he developed a new approach to study the size and behavior of automorphic forms. He has contributed to data creation for the LMFDB, as well as day-to-day maintenance. David completed his Ph.D. at Brown University in 2017, worked as a postdoctoral researcher at Warwick Mathematics Institute. David has returned to ICERM as a Senior Research Associate to work with Brendan Hassett as part of the Simons Collaboration on Arithmetic Geometry, Number Theory, and ComputationCollaboration on Arithmetic Geometry, Number Theory, and Computation. Jayan Mukherjee ICERM Bridge Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Jayan Mukherjee is a postdoctoral fellow at ICERM for the academic year 2021-2022. Their supervisor is Professor Henry Schenck. Jayan's research interests are in Algebraic Geometry. More specifically, interested in syzygies of algebraic varieties, positivity of linear series, multiple structures on schemes and their smoothing, deformations of finite morphisms and moduli of varieties of general type. They are also interested in questions on rationality of stacks of finite covers over projective spaces. Jayan received their Ph.D in July 2021, from the University of Kansas where their advisor was Professor Purnaprajna Bangere. InSung Park Simons Bridge Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Insung Park received PhD in August 2021 at Indiana University Bloomington under the supervision of Dylan Thurston. They will be a Simons bridge postdoc at ICERM for 2021-2022 and will be a postdoc research member of MSRI's semester program in 2022 spring. Insung is broadly interested in low-dimensional topology, geometry, and dynamics. In recent years, they’ve been mainly studying the dynamics of post-critically finite rational maps and its connection with metric geometry and geometric group theory. Their recent work is to characterize Julia sets with Ahlfors regular conformal dimension one in terms of invariant graphs with entropy zero. Nancy Scherich Institute Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Nancy Scherich is interested in algebraic problems with topological motivations. She researches the representation theory of the virtual and classical braid groups, finite type invariants, and invariants of virtual trivalent spatial graphs. Nancy has a particular fascination with specializations of the Burau representation and structures of subgroups/quotients of the braid group. She received her PhD from the University of California, Santa Barbara under the direction of Darren Long in 2019. She is currently a postdoc at the University of Toronto with Dror Bar-Natan, though she will spend the 2021/2022 academic year at ICERM. In addition to her research, Nancy uses dance as a medium to explain higher mathematics. In 2017, she won Science Magazine’s Dance your Phd competition with a dance video about representations of the braid groups. Visit her website to see more about her research and Math-Dance projects. Anastassiya Semenova Institute Postdoc 2021-2022 Anastassiya Semenova' research interests include free surface dynamics of water waves, properties of Stokes, stochastic description of ocean states, turbulence in nonlinear systems, numerical methods for nonlinear Schroedinger equation, and soliton like solutions, singularities and nonlinear phenomena in integrable systems. She received PhD in Mathematics from the University of New Mexico under the supervision of professors Alexander Korotkevich and Pavel Lushnikov. Anastassiya is an institute postdoc at ICERM for 2021/2022 year. Rahul Singh ICERM Bridge Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Rahul Singh earned his PhD from Northeastern University in 2019 under the advisement of V Lakshmibai. After spending two years working at Virginia Tech, he will be stationed at ICERM for the academic year 2021-22. He is broadly interested in the study of flag manifolds and their subvarieties. His recent work is on the conormal varieties and Mather classes of cominuscule Schubert varieties, and on various geometric and combinatorial aspects of Hessenberg varieties. Hannah Turner Spring Semester Postdoc 2022 Website Hannah Turner is interested in low-dimensional topology with an emphasis on knots, braids, 3- manifolds, and mapping class groups; especially using Floer homology theories to study these objects. She received her PhD at the University of Texas at Austin in 2021 under the supervision of Cameron Gordon. She is currently a visiting assistant professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology and will be a postdoctoral fellow at ICERM in spring 2022 associated with the semester program: "Braids." Yvon Verberne Spring Semester Postdoc 2022 Website Yvon Verberne's research interests lie at the intersection of low-dimensional topology and geometric group theory, where she mainly focuses on studying mapping class groups of finite type and infinite type surfaces. She received her PhD from the University of Toronto in June of 2020 under the supervision of Kasra Rafi. She is currently an NSERC Postdoctoral Scholar at Georgia Institute of Technology where she works with Dan Margalit, and previously she was the Huneke Endowed Postdoctoral Scholar for the program "Random and arithmetic structures in topology" at MSRI. Yvon will be a Semester Postdoc this spring as part of the program "Braids". Tony (Ka Wah) Wong Simons Bridge Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Tony Wong is interested in the applications and numerical analysis of dynamical systems. He completed his PhD in 2021 at UBC under the supervision of Colin Macdonald and Michael Ward. His dissertation work studies localized patterns in linear and nonlinear pattern-forming models. In his next step, he would like to apply his analytical and computational skill sets to investigate pattern formation problems in a broader range of applications. He is looking forward to collaborate with experts from other fields in conducting multidisciplinary research. Tony will be a postdoctoral research associate at ICERM in the Fall of 2021, under the Simon Bridge Program. Jiaqi Yang Institute Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Jiaqi Yang’s research interests lie in differential equations and dynamical systems. She received her Ph.D. in mathematics at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2021, under the supervision of Rafael de la Llave. Her PhD thesis focuses on invariant objects of some functional differential equations in perturbative setting. Jiaqi will be at ICERM as an institute postdoc 2021-2022 and is affiliated with the fall semester program. Zhuolun Yang Simons Bridge Postdoc 2021-2022 Website Zhuolun received his Ph.D. degree at Rutgers University in 2021, under the supervision of Professor Yanyan Li. Before that, he received his Master's degree at New York University and Bachelor's degree at Sun Yat-sen University. His research interests lie in analysis and partial differential equations, with particular focus on problems arising from fluid mechanics and composite materials. His current work focuses on characterizing the gradient of solutions to the insulated conductivity problem and the regularity of incompressible stationary Navier-Stokes equation in high dimensions. ICERM 121 South Main Street, Box E 11th Floor Providence, RI 02903 info@icerm.brown.edu +1 (401) 863-5030