Home (current) Programs All Programs & Events Propose a Program Summer@ICERM Collaborate@ICERM GirlsGetMath@ICERM REUF Your Visit ICERM Facilities Traveling to ICERM Financial Support Explore Providence Professional Development Technology Resources IT Documentation Videos Video Archive Live Stream MathBytes About About ICERM NSF Support Directors & Staff Advisory Boards Postdocs & Researchers Diversity Jobs News Support ICERM ICERM Facilities Navigate Page Back to Top ICERM Hours and Access Mail Brown University Facilities Safety ICERM Hours and Access Monday-Friday from 8:30am-5:00pm during the academic year. Monday-Friday from 8:00am-4:00pm during summer. During workshop weeks, ICERM elevators are unlocked from 8:00am until 5:30pm, Monday-Friday. All participants are welcome to use institute space during these hours. Long-term participants (10+ consecutive days) are issued a Brown University ID card, allowing 24/7 building and elevator access to ICERM. Mail There is an out-box for stamped and campus mail at ICERM’s reception desk. Stamps and envelopes can be purchased at the reception desk for non-ICERM related mail (up to 16 ounces). U.S. and campus mail is picked-up and delivered between 2:00pm and 3:00pm, M-F. U.S. Post Office 2 Exchange Terrace Providence, RI 02903 FedEx Office Print & Ship Center 236 Meeting Street Providence, RI 02906 Brown University Facilities Library Access Per Brown University policy, only long-term participants (10+ consecutive days) are allowed access to the university’s online library resources. No ICERM participant can check-out materials from the Brown library system. Recreational Facilities Long-term participants (10+ consecutive days) with a Brown ID can purchase temporary membership through the "Brown Sponsored ID "program. All other participants can purchase access through the "One Day Guest Pass" program. Safety No city or campus is immune to crime. Using common sense regarding personal safety, and honoring our policies relating to building and ICERM access, helps to keep everyone safe. Safety tips can be found via Brown's Department of Public Safety. ICERM 121 South Main Street, Box E 11th Floor Providence, RI 02903 info@icerm.brown.edu +1 (401) 863-5030