Home (current) Programs All Programs & Events Propose a Program Summer@ICERM Collaborate@ICERM GirlsGetMath@ICERM REUF Your Visit ICERM Facilities Traveling to ICERM Financial Support Explore Providence Professional Development Technology Resources IT Documentation Videos Video Archive Live Stream MathBytes About About ICERM NSF Support Directors & Staff Advisory Boards Postdocs & Researchers Diversity Jobs News Support ICERM Financial Support Navigate Page Back to Top Financial Policies Air Travel Policies Financial Policies ORCID iD For all programs funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF), ICERM is required to collect your ORCID iD if you are receiving funding to attend the program. The funding source is noted on your invitation letter and a similar message is posted on each NSF funded event’s website. Be sure to add your ORCID iD to your Cube profile as soon as possible to avoid delaying your reimbursement. Funding Individual funding details are outlined in invitation letters. Participants book and pay for their own transportation and lodging costs. Reimbursements Participants should refer to the specific event website to submit reimbursement requests after the program starts. Requests take 6 to 8 weeks to process. Reimbursement requests will not be accepted 6 months after the participant’s departure. Receipts Clear images of receipts are needed to process reimbursements. Requests can be rejected if a receipt is deemed illegible. Keeping receipts until the reimbursement is received is advisable. Personal Cars Only New England based participants' personal car travel are reimbursable. All other participants must contact the Financial Coordinator in advance to ensure personal car travel allowability. Reimbursements for approved commuters use the prevailing IRS rate at the time of the trip. Lodging for Workshop and Long-term Participants ICERM's Program Coordinator will provide hotel details for workshop participants, and will assist with securing housing for long-term participants whose stays are 10 days or longer. Those offered ICERM funding for lodging will find details on their invitation letters. Reimbursements are capped at the amount indicated in the invitation letter. Important Note: For those whose visits are cut short for any reason, lodging reimbursements will be prorated based on the actual number of days in-residence. Air Travel Policies The inclusion of airfare funding in an ICERM invitation letter assumes the participant will attend at least 1/3 of the event. Acceptable air travel related costs can be found on your invitation and the Financial Support section of your program’s page. International Travelers The Fly American Act requires participants to use United States or European Union airlines ("U.S. or E.U. flag carriers"). These carriers are defined by the country where an airline is headquartered. U.S. or E.U. carriers must be used for all flights including connections regardless of the cost. Allowable Example Lufthansa is headquartered in Germany. A Lufthansa ticket originating anywhere in the world to ICERM is allowable. Unallowable Example Porter Airlines is headquartered in Canada. A Porter Airline ticket originating anywhere in the world to ICERM is unallowable. Countries where Allowable Airlines are Headquartered Austria Belgium Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Iceland - included in the U.S.-E.U. Agreement Ireland Italy Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Netherlands Norway - included in the U.S.-E.U. Agreement Poland Portugal Romania Slovakia Slovenia Spain Sweden United States As the majority of programs are covered by ICERM’s federal funds, be advised that the use of UK based airlines cannot be reimbursed. Please contact travel@icerm.brown.edu if you have any questions about code sharing or alternatives. Codesharing Caution U.S. or E.U. carriers can lease seats on an aircraft of a foreign air carrier and vice versa. You must buy the ticket through an U.S. or E.U. carrier to ensure reimbursement. Allowable Example Ticket purchased through Delta Airlines (U.S. headquarters) and the flight is operated by Aeroflot (Russian headquarters). Unallowable Example Ticket purchased through CopeAirlines (Panamanian headquarters) and the flight is operated by United Airlines (U.S. headquarters). Itineraries can be sent to travel@icerm.brown.edu for a review before you purchase your ticket. ICERM 121 South Main Street, Box E 11th Floor Providence, RI 02903 info@icerm.brown.edu +1 (401) 863-5030