COVID-19 Information for ICERM Participants ICERM follows Brown University's COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy. Starting in fall 2021, we anticipate that all ICERM scientific programming will be held in person at the institute. Participants must be registered via Cube for their program of interest and submit the required vaccination attestation in order to attend ICERM programs in person. Please see our ICERM COVID-19 Policies page for more details. Home (current) Programs All Programs & Events Propose a Program Summer@ICERM Collaborate@ICERM GirlsGetMath@ICERM REUF Your Visit ICERM Facilities Traveling to ICERM Financial Support Explore Providence Professional Development Technology Resources IT Documentation Videos Video Archive Live Stream MathBytes About About ICERM NSF Support Directors & Staff Advisory Boards Postdocs & Researchers Diversity Jobs News Support ICERM Spring 2020 Reunion Event May 23 - Jun 10, 2022 Workshop Overview Workshop Participants Workshop Schedule Your Visit to ICERM Financial Support Workshop Overview Workshop Participants Workshop Schedule Your Visit to ICERM Financial Support Spring 2020 Reunion Event (May 23 - Jun 10, 2022) Navigate Page Back to Top Workshop Overview Workshop Participants Workshop Schedule Your Visit to ICERM Financial Support Organizing Committee Yanlai Chen University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth Serkan Gugercin Virginia Tech Misha Kilmer Tufts University Yvon Maday Sorbonne Université Shari Moskow Drexel University Akil Narayan University of Utah Daniele Venturi University of California, Santa Cruz Abstract Mathematical models arising from scientific applications frequently have a large number of degrees of freedom, and modern observational or empirical datasets have high-dimensional features. Such high-dimensional realities from either simulation or experimental data makes direct computational analysis, compression, and/or probing tasks such as outer-loop optimization, design, and/or uncertainty quantification computationally infeasible. One paradigm for addressing such a challenge is mathematics-based model reduction, which aims to find and exploit low-dimensional structure in high-dimensional models to generate a computationally efficient emulator, often with provable accuracy guarantees. A complementary class of approaches is found in low-rank approximation and statistics where data reduction techniques can efficiently explore and mine parsimonious summarizations of high-dimensional datasets. One major goal of the Spring 2020 program, and the foundational theme for this proposed workshop, was the promotion of reciprocal and symbiotic interactions and advances that blend these data analysis and model reduction strategies spanning mathematical and statistical analysis, optimization, and data science. The proposed workshop will continue to fertilize such discipline-bridging advancements, tackling foundational challenges such as nonlinear reduction methods, data-driven reduced-order model identification, low-rank inference, and inverse problems, and efficient compression for high-dimensional tensors. Confirmed Speakers & Participants Talks will be presented virtually or in-person as indicated in the schedule below. Search Sort Last Name (default) First Name Organization Speaker Poster Presenter Attendee Virtual Attendee Christopher Beattie Virginia Tech Peter Benner Max Planck Institute for Dynamics of Complex Technical Systems, Magdeburg Yanlai Chen University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth Zheng “Leslie” Chen University of Massachusetts Dartmouth Yingda Cheng Michigan State University Vladimir Druskin Worcester Polytechnic Institute Ion Victor Gosea Max Planck Institute for Dynamics of Complex Technical Systems Pawan Goyal MPI Magdeburg Serkan Gugercin Virginia Tech Misha Kilmer Tufts University Boris Krämer University of California San Diego Peter Kramer Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Sanda LEFTERIU Continental Automotive Romania Fengyan Li Rensselaer Polytechinic Institute Petar Mlinarić Virginia Tech Shari Moskow Drexel University Akil Narayan University of Utah Carmeliza Navasca University of Alabama at Birmingham Elizabeth Newman Emory University Davide Palitta Alma Mater Studiorum, Universita' di Bologna Benjamin Peherstorfer Courant Institute, New York University Zhichao Peng Michigan State University Igor Pontes Duff Max Planck Institute for Dynamics of Complex Technical Systems Elizabeth Qian California Institute of Technology Jemima Tabeart University of Edinburgh Daniele Venturi University of California, Santa Cruz Min Wang Duke University Zhu Wang University of South Carolina Steffen Werner Courant Institute, New York University Mikhail Zaslavsky Schlumberger Workshop Schedule Jump to Today Export Schedule Subscribe (iCal) Print View Customize Your device timezone is . Do you want to view schedules in or choose a custom timezone? Monday, May 23, 2022 3:50 - 4:00 pm EDT Welcome 11th Floor Lecture Hall Brendan Hassett, ICERM/Brown University 4:00 - 5:30 pm EDT Welcome (Back!) Reception Reception - 11th Floor Collaborative Space Tuesday, May 24, 2022 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Wednesday, May 25, 2022 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Thursday, May 26, 2022 11:00 - 11:45 am EDT A casual talk on electromagnetic wave propagation and quantum computing 11th Floor Lecture Hall Zhichao Peng, Michigan State University Abstract This talk will include two parts: (1) a scalable fast iterative solver for the frequency-domain Maxwell equations at high frequencies and (2) a practice of characterization and optimal control of a real quantum computer. The frequency-domain Maxwell equations at high frequencies has indefinite nature, and as a result, it is challenging for iterative linear solvers to invert it efficiently. It also has high-resolution requirement, and the memory needed by standard multifrontal direct solvers may become prohibitive for practical high-frequency 3D problems. In the first part of the talk, we present an efficient scalable frequency-domain Maxwell solver built from scalable time-domain solvers called EM-WaveHoltz. Due to its high potential, quantum computing recently draw a lot of attention from the scientific community. In the second part of the talk, we briefly introduce some main difference between a quantum computer and a classical computer. We also use deterministic and Bayesian methods to characterize a quantum computer based on experimental data. Control pulses are designed based on the characterization results, and their performance is demonstrated through experimental validations. 2:00 - 2:45 pm EDT Deep Learning for High-dimensional PDE 11th Floor Lecture Hall Min Wang, Duke University Abstract Solving high-dimensional PDEs is a long-standing challenge in scientific computing. Luckily, studies discovered that the neural networks can be used to approximate a certain class of functions without the curse of dimensionality. It is therefore natural to expect that the solutions to high dimensional PDEs can be accurately approximated with the neural networks under controllable numerical costs. Along this line, three questions have been widely considered: 1) How can a PDE problem be formulated into an optimization problem so that it fits into the frame of deep learning? 2) How accurate will a neural network approximation be? 3) How could the training be conducted in a systematic way so that we could be close to a global minimum? In this talk, I will briefly describe a few initial attempts I have made to answer the questions above. 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Friday, May 27, 2022 1:30 - 2:15 pm EDT $\mathcal{L}_2$-Optimal Reduced-Order Modeling 11th Floor Lecture Hall Petar Mlinarić, Virginia Tech Abstract Motivated by $\mathcal{H}_2$-optimal model order reduction (MOR) for non-parametric linear time-invariant (LTI) systems and $\mathcal{H}_2 \otimes \mathcal{L}_2$-optimal parametric MOR for parametric LTI systems, we investigate $\mathcal{L}_2$-optimal parametric MOR for parametric stationary problems arising from, e.g., discretizations of parametric stationary partial differential equations. We first develop gradients of the squared $\mathcal{L}_2$ error with respect to the reduced system operators, which then leads to a gradient-based optimization method for MOR of parametric stationary problems. We also illustrate that the optimization algorithm can be performed purely in a data-driven manner using only the samples of the quantities of interest without access to full-order operators. Furthermore, we develop interpolatory conditions for optimal MOR of a class of parametric stationary problems. Finally, we discuss MOR methods based on (Petrov-)Galerkin projection and whether $\mathcal{L}_2$-optimal reduced-order models are necessarily of such type. We illustrate the theory via various numerical examples and compare our framework to standard projection-based approaches. 2:15 - 3:00 pm EDT Learning Dynamical Models via Identifying Suitable Quadratic-Embeddings 11th Floor Lecture Hall Pawan Goyal, MPI Magdeburg Abstract Dynamical modeling of a process is essential to study its dynamical behavior and perform engineering studies such as control and optimization. With the ease of accessibility of data, learning models directly from the data have recently drawn much attention. It is also desirable to construct simple models describing complex nonlinear dynamics for efficient simulations and engineering studies. The simplest model--one can think of--is the linear model, but they are often not expressive enough to model complex dynamics. In this work, we propose \emph{McCormick-envelope} inspired modeling of nonlinear dynamics and discuss a common framework to model nonlinear dynamic processes. The preeminent idea, coming from the envelope, is smooth nonlinear systems can be written as quadratic systems in appropriate lifted coordinate systems without any approximation. We utilize deep learning capabilities and discuss suitable neural network architectures to find such a coordinate system using data. We also discuss an extension to high-dimensional data, which exhibits a slow decay of singular values. We showcase the approach using data coming from applications in engineering and biology. 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Monday, May 30, 2022 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Tuesday, May 31, 2022 2:00 - 2:45 pm EDT From frequency response data to (balanced) reduced-order models: system-theoretical approaches 11th Floor Lecture Hall Ion Victor Gosea, Max Planck Institute for Dynamics of Complex Technical Systems Abstract In many applied sciences applications, the underlying dynamics of the process under study may be inaccessible to direct modeling, or it may be only partially known. However, with the increasing prevalence of available data from practical experiments, it is of high relevance to include such measurements in the modeling process. Data corresponding to the underlying dynamical systems are available in various formats. For example, among others, in the form of the frequency response. In such cases, one could construct a simplified empirical model of lower dimension that fits the measured data, and hence accurately approximates the original system. This reduced-order system may then be used as a surrogate to predict behavior or derive control strategies. The main motivation of the methods discussed here is that measured system response data can be used in a beneficial way without the need of accessing any prescribed realization of the original model. The balanced truncation (BT) method (introduced by Moore '81) and Loewner-matrix (LM) methodologies (introduced by Mayo/Antoulas '07) are common model reduction approaches. However, only the latter approach (LM) is purely data-driven, while the first is not. We show how to implement a data-driven counterpart of the classical BT approach by using only frequency response data, without explicitly using the model (system's matrices). This recent method (G./Gugercin/Beattie '22) is based on implicitly imposing quadrature approximations on the infinite Gramians, and on constructing the reduced-order model by accessing the transfer function values only. 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Wednesday, June 1, 2022 11:00 - 11:45 am EDT Stabilizing Dynamical Systems in the Scarce Data Regime 11th Floor Lecture Hall Steffen Werner, Courant Institute, New York University Abstract Stabilizing dynamical systems in science and engineering is challenging, especially in edge cases and limit states where typically little data are available. In this work, we propose a data-driven approach that guarantees finding stabilizing controllers from as few data samples as the dimension of the unstable dynamics, which typically is orders of magnitude lower than the state dimension of the system. The key is learning stabilizing controllers directly from data without learning models of the systems, which would require larger numbers of data points. Numerical experiments with chemical reactors and fluid dynamics behind obstacles demonstrate that the proposed approach stabilizes systems after observing fewer than five data samples even though the dimension of states is orders of magnitude higher. 2:00 - 3:00 pm EDT Tensor-tensor Algebra for Optimal Representation and Compression of Multiway Data 11th Floor Lecture Hall Elizabeth Newman, Emory University Abstract With ever-growing data resources and modern advancements of data-driven methods, it is imperative that we represent large datasets efficiently while preserving intrinsic features necessary for subsequent analysis. Traditionally, the primary workhorse for data dimensionality reduction and feature extraction has been the matrix singular value decomposition (SVD), which presupposes that data have been arranged in matrix format. However, many data are natively multidimensional and can be more compressible when treated as tensors (i.e., multiway arrays). In this talk, we will provide a brief overview of a particular compressed tensor representation, the t-SVDM, which is formed under an algebraic tensor-tensor product. We will demonstrate that compressed representations obtained from the t-SVDM satisfy Eckart-Young-like optimality results. Moreover, we will show that an optimal t-SVDM representation is provably better than its matrix counterpart and two tensor-based analogs. We will support these theoretical findings with some empirical studies. 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Thursday, June 2, 2022 11:00 am - 12:00 pm EDT Reduced-order modeling and inversion for large-scale problems of geophysical exploration 11th Floor Lecture Hall Mikhail Zaslavsky, Schlumberger Abstract Geophysical exploration using electromagnetic and seismic method involves large-scale forward and nonlinear inverse problems that often have to be solved in real-time. We address this challenge by employing reduced-order models (ROMs) that represent low-dimensional surrogate of full-scale problem. In this talk I will provide an overview of model-driven ROMs we developed for forward modeling as well as structure-preserving data-driven ROMs that are crucial for inverse problems. The latter enable constructing physics-preserved low-order models with direct access to unknowns of inverse problem and, consequently, optimization-free inversion algorithm. I will show numerical examples confirming the advantage of our approaches compared to state-of-the art algorithms. Contributors: Liliana Borcea, Vladimir Druskin, Alexander Mamonov, Shari Moskow, Jorn Zimmerling Schlumberger-Private 2:00 - 3:00 pm EDT Stein-based Preconditioners for Weak-constraint 4D-var 11th Floor Lecture Hall Davide Palitta, Alma Mater Studiorum, Universita' di Bologna Jemima Tabeart, University of Edinburgh Abstract Algorithms for data assimilation try to predict the most likely state of a dynamical system by combining information from observations and prior models. One of the most successful data assimilation frameworks is the linearized weak-constraint four-dimensional variational assimilation problem (4D-Var), that can be ultimately seen as a minimization problem. One of the main challenges of such approach is the solution of large saddle point linear systems arising as inner linear step within the adopted nonlinear solver. The linear algebraic problem can be solved by means of a Krylov method, like MINRES or GMRES, that needs to be preconditioned to ensure fast convergence in terms of number of iterations. In this talk we will illustrate novel, efficient preconditioning operators which involve the solution of certain Stein matrix equations. In addition to achieving better computational performance, the latter machinery allows us to derive tighter bounds for the eigenvalue distribution of the preconditioned saddle point linear system. A panel of diverse numerical examples displays the effectiveness of the proposed methodology compared to current state-of-the-art approaches.# 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Friday, June 3, 2022 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Monday, June 6, 2022 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Tuesday, June 7, 2022 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Wednesday, June 8, 2022 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Thursday, June 9, 2022 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space Subscribe to ICERM Calendar (iCal) × ICERM provides an iCalendar (.ics) feeds for all events and talks. You may copy and paste the feed URL below into your preferred calendar app or click the Import Event Calendar button below. This feed includes all scheduled events for this program. Spring 2020 Reunion Event Feed The above feed only contains events from this program. To subscribe to a feed with all programs and events, please use the full calendar feed URL from the calendar page. Import Event Calendar Close All event times are listed in ICERM local time in Providence, RI (Eastern Daylight Time / UTC-4). All event times are listed in . ICERM local time in Providence, RI is Eastern Daylight Time (UTC-4). Would you like to switch back to ICERM time or choose a different custom timezone? Customize Customize Schedules × By default, all schedules on the ICERM website display in ICERM's local timezone. You may customize the timezone settings or enable 24-hour times using the controls below. Select Timezone (GMT-11:00) Midway Island, Samoa (GMT-10:00) Hawaii (GMT-09:00) Alaska (GMT-08:00) Baja California (GMT-08:00) Pacific Time (US and Canada) (GMT-07:00) Arizona (GMT-07:00) Chihuahua, La Paz, Mazatlan (GMT-07:00) Mountain Time (US and Canada) (GMT-06:00) Central America (GMT-06:00) Central Time (US and Canada) (GMT-06:00) Guadalajara, Mexico City, Monterrey (GMT-06:00) Saskatchewan (GMT-05:00) Bogota, Lima, Quito (GMT-05:00) Eastern Time (US and Canada) (GMT-05:00) Indiana (East) (GMT-04:30) Caracas (GMT-04:00) Asuncion (GMT-04:00) Atlantic Time (Canada) (GMT-04:00) Cuiaba (GMT-04:00) Georgetown, La Paz, Manaus, San Juan (GMT-04:00) Santiago (GMT-03:30) Newfoundland and Labrador (GMT-03:00) Brasilia (GMT-03:00) Buenos Aires (GMT-03:00) Cayenne, Fortaleza (GMT-03:00) Greenland (GMT-03:00) Montevideo (GMT-03:00) Salvador (GMT-02:00) Mid-Atlantic (GMT-01:00) Azores (GMT-01:00) Cape Verde Islands (GMT) Greenwich Mean Time : Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London (GMT) Casablanca, Monrovia (GMT+01:00) Amsterdam, Berlin, Bern, Rome, Stockholm, Vienna (GMT+01:00) Belgrade, Bratislava, Budapest, Ljubljana, Prague (GMT+01:00) Brussels, Copenhagen, Madrid, Paris (GMT+01:00) Sarajevo, Skopje, Warsaw, Zagreb (GMT+01:00) West Central Africa (GMT+01:00) Windhoek (GMT+02:00) Athens, Bucharest (GMT+02:00) Beirut (GMT+02:00) Cairo (GMT+02:00) Damascus (GMT+02:00) Eastern Europe (GMT+02:00) Harare, Pretoria (GMT+02:00) Helsinki, Kiev, Riga, Sofia, Tallinn, Vilnius (GMT+02:00) Istanbul (GMT+02:00) Jerusalem (GMT+03:00) Amman (GMT+03:00) Baghdad (GMT+03:00) Kalinigrad, Minsk (GMT+03:00) Kuwait, Riyadh (GMT+03:00) Nairobi (GMT+03:30) Tehran (GMT+04:00) Abu Dhabi, Muscat (GMT+04:00) Dubai (GMT+04:00) Baku (GMT+04:00) Moscow, St. Petersburg, Volgograd (GMT+04:00) Port Louis (GMT+04:00) Tblisi (GMT+04:00) Yerevan (GMT+04:30) Kabul (GMT+05:00) Islamabad, Karachi (GMT+05:00) Tashkent (GMT+05:30) Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi (GMT+05:30) Sri Jayawardenepura (GMT+05:45) Kathmandu (GMT+06:00) Astana (GMT+06:00) Dhaka (GMT+06:00) Ekaterinburg (GMT+06:30) Yangon (Rangoon) (GMT+07:00) Bangkok, Hanoi, Jakarta (GMT+07:00) Novosibirsk (GMT+08:00) Beijing, Chongqing, Hong Kong SAR, Urumqi (GMT+08:00) Krasnoyarsk (GMT+08:00) Kuala Lumpur, Singapore (GMT+08:00) Perth (GMT+08:00) Taipei (GMT+08:00) Ulaanbaatar (GMT+09:00) Irkutsk (GMT+09:00) Osaka, Sapporo, Tokyo (GMT+09:00) Seoul (GMT+09:30) Adelaide (GMT+09:30) Darwin (GMT+10:00) Brisbane (GMT+10:00) Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney (GMT+10:00) Guam, Port Moresby (GMT+10:00) Hobart (GMT+10:00) Yakutsk (GMT+11:00) Solomon Islands, New Caledonia (GMT+11:00) Vladivostok (GMT+12:00) Auckland, Wellington (GMT+12:00) Fiji Islands, Kamchatka, Marshall Islands (GMT+12:00) Magadan (GMT+13:00) Nuku'alofa (GMT+13:00) Samoa Options Use 24-hour time Reset Cancel Apply Schedule Timezone Updated × Your Visit to ICERM ICERM Facilities ICERM is located on the 10th & 11th floors of 121 South Main Street in Providence, Rhode Island. ICERM will be open during normal business hours (8:30am - 5:00pm) at the beginning of this event, and will switch to summer hours (8:00am - 4:00pm) on May 31st. See our facilities page for more info about ICERM and Brown's available facilities. Traveling to ICERM ICERM is located at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. Providence's T.F. Green Airport (15 minutes south) and Boston's Logan Airport (1 hour north) are the closest airports. Providence is also on Amtrak's Northeast Corridor. In-depth directions and transportation information are available on our travel page. Lodging ICERM's special rate will soon be made available via this page for our preferred hotel, the Hampton Inn & Suites Providence Downtown. ICERM also regularly works with the Graduate Hotel and Hilton Garden Inn who both have discounted rates available. Contact housing@icerm.brown.edu before booking anything. The only way ICERM participants should book a room is through the hotel reservation links located on this page or through links emailed to them from an ICERM email address (first_last@icerm.brown.edu). ICERM never works with any conference booking vendors and never collects credit card information. Childcare/Schools Those traveling with family who are interested in information about childcare and/or schools should contact housing@icerm.brown.edu. Technology Resources Wireless internet access ("Brown-Guest") and wireless printing is available for all ICERM visitors. Eduroam is available for members of participating institutions. Thin clients in all offices and common areas provide open access to a web browser, SSH terminal, and printing capability. See our Technology Resources page for setup instructions and to learn about all available technology. Accessibility To request special services, accommodations, or assistance for this event, please contact accessibility@icerm.brown.edu as far in advance of the event as possible. Thank you. Discrimination and Harassment Policy ICERM is committed to creating a safe, professional, and welcoming environment that benefits from the diversity and experiences of all its participants. Brown University's "Code of Conduct", "Discrimination and Workplace Harassment Policy", "Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy", and "Title IX Policy" apply to all ICERM participants and staff. Participants with concerns or requests for assistance on a discrimination or harassment issue should contact the ICERM Director or Assistant Director of Finance & Administration; they are the responsible employees at ICERM under this policy. Exploring Providence Providence's world-renowned culinary scene provides ample options for lunch and dinner. Neighborhoods near campus, including College Hill Historic District, have many local attractions. Check out the map on our Explore Providence page to see what's near ICERM. Financial Support This section is for general purposes only and does not indicate that all attendees receive funding. Please refer to your personalized invitation to review your offer. ORCID iD As this program is funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF), ICERM is required to collect your ORCID iD if you are receiving funding to attend this program. Be sure to add your ORCID iD to your Cube profile as soon as possible to avoid delaying your reimbursement. Acceptable Costs 1 roundtrip between your home institute and ICERM Flights on U.S. or E.U. airlines – economy class to either Providence airport (PVD) or Boston airport (BOS) Ground Transportation to and from airports and ICERM. Unacceptable Costs Flights on non-U.S. or non-E.U. airlines Flights on U.K. airlines Seats in economy plus, business class, or first class Change ticket fees of any kind Multi-use bus passes Meals or incidentals Advance Approval Required Personal car travel to ICERM from outside New England Multiple-destination plane ticket; does not include layovers to reach ICERM Arriving or departing from ICERM more than a day before or day after the program Multiple trips to ICERM Rental car to/from ICERM Flights on a Swiss, Japanese, or Australian airlines Arriving or departing from airport other than PVD/BOS or home institution's local airport 2 one-way plane tickets to create a roundtrip (often purchased from Expedia, Orbitz, etc.) Travel Maximum Contributions New England: $250 Other contiguous US: $750 Asia & Oceania: $2,000 All other locations: $1,500 Note these rates were updated in Spring 2022 and superseded any prior invitation rates. Any invitations without travel support will still not receive travel support. Reimbursement Requests Request Reimbursement with Cube Refer to the back of your ID badge for more information. Checklists are available at the front desk and in the Reimbursement section of Cube. Reimbursement Tips Scanned original receipts are required for all expenses Airfare receipt must show full itinerary and payment ICERM does not offer per diem or meal reimbursement Allowable mileage is reimbursed at prevailing IRS Business Rate and trip documented via pdf of Google Maps result Keep all documentation until you receive your reimbursement! Reimbursement Timing 6 - 8 weeks after all documentation is sent to ICERM. All reimbursement requests are reviewed by numerous central offices at Brown who may request additional documentation. Reimbursement Deadline Submissions must be received within 30 days of ICERM departure to avoid applicable taxes. Submissions after thirty days will incur applicable taxes. No submissions are accepted more than six months after the program end. ICERM 121 South Main Street, Box E 11th Floor Providence, RI 02903 info@icerm.brown.edu +1 (401) 863-5030