Home (current) Programs All Programs & Events Propose a Program Summer@ICERM Collaborate@ICERM GirlsGetMath@ICERM REUF Your Visit ICERM Facilities Traveling to ICERM Financial Support Explore Providence Professional Development Technology Resources IT Documentation Videos Video Archive Live Stream MathBytes About About ICERM NSF Support Directors & Staff Advisory Boards Postdocs & Researchers Diversity Jobs News Support ICERM Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty Navigate Page Back to Top Program Overview Past Programs The Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) annual workshops are a formal collaboration between ICERM and the American Institute of Mathematics (AIM). These workshops bring together leading research mathematicians and faculty based at primarily undergraduate institutions to investigate open questions in the mathematical sciences and to equip participants with tools to engage in research with undergraduate students. REUF also serves to jump-start faculty who want to re-engage in research or who are considering a change in their research area. Program Details Accepted participants will receive support for travel, accommodation, and per diem. Preference will be given to faculty who teach and advise substantial numbers of minority students. Upcoming REUF programs are generally posted/open in early winter of each year. Deadline Early-to-mid spring REUF Continuation Groups There are opportunities for participants to continue research activities beyond the workshop week. Past participants should contact ulrica_wilson@icerm.brown.edu if interested in more details. Outcomes View REUF outcomes that have been tracked since 2009. REUF is supported by the National Science Foundation through DMS grants 1620073 to AIM and 1620080 to ICERM. Learn more about REUF 2017 REUF Group at ICERM Past REUF Programs ICERM Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) Jun 17 - 21, 2019 ICERM Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) Jun 17 - 21, 2019 × This workshop, a formal collaboration between ICERM and the American Institute of Mathematics (AIM), is one in a series of annual REUF workshops. These workshops bring together leading research mathematicians and faculty based at primarily undergraduate institutions to investigate open questions in the mathematical sciences and to equip participants with tools to engage in research with undergraduate students. REUF also serves to jump-start faculty who want to re-engage in research or who are considering a change in their research area. The goals of this workshop are to promote undergraduate research and to forge research collaborations among the participating faculty. The majority of the workshop will be spent working on problems in small research groups, reporting on progress, and formulating plans for future work. Note that there are opportunities for participants to continue research activities beyond the workshop week, which will be discussed during the workshop. Preference will... (more) Organizing Committee Brianna Donaldson Leslie Hogben Ulrica Wilson Close View Event Page Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) at AIM, San Jose, CA Jun 11 - 15, 2018 Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) at AIM, San Jose, CA Jun 11 - 15, 2018 × The American Institute of Mathematics (AIM), co-sponsored by ICERM, invites applications for the Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) workshop to be held at AIM in San Jose, CA. This workshop, sponsored by AIM, ICERM, and the National Science Foundation, is one in a series of annual REUF workshops that bring together leading research mathematicians with faculty at undergraduate institutions who are interested in involving their students in areas of active research. The workshop can also serve as a research renewal opportunity for faculty who want to re-engage in research or are considering a change of research area. The goals of the workshop are to promote undergraduate research in undergraduate institutions, and to forge lasting research collaborations among the participating faculty. The majority of the workshop will be spent working on problems in small research groups, reporting on progress, and formulating plans for future work. In addition to the workshop... (more) Close View Event Page ICERM Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) Jun 26 - 30, 2017 ICERM Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) Jun 26 - 30, 2017 × This workshop, a formal collaboration between ICERM and the American Institute of Mathematics (AIM), is one in a series of annual REUF workshops. These workshops bring together leading research mathematicians and faculty at primarily undergraduate institutions to investigate open questions in the mathematical sciences and to equip participants with tools to engage in research with undergraduate students. This will also be a research renewal opportunity for faculty who want to re-engage in research or faculty considering a change in research area. The goals of the workshop are to promote undergraduate research and to forge research collaborations among the participating faculty. The majority of the workshop will be spent working on problems in small research groups, reporting on progress, and formulating plans for future work. Note that there are opportunities for participants to continue research activities beyond the workshop week. Preference will be given to faculty who teach or... (more) Organizing Committee Brianna Donaldson Leslie Hogben Ulrica Wilson Close View Event Page Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) at AIM, San Jose, CA Jul 25 - 29, 2016 Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) at AIM, San Jose, CA Jul 25 - 29, 2016 × The American Institute of Mathematics (AIM), co-sponsored by ICERM, invites applications for the Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) workshop to be held at AIM in San Jose, CA. This workshop, sponsored by AIM, ICERM, and the National Science Foundation, is one in a series of annual REUF workshops that bring together leading research mathematicians with faculty at undergraduate institutions who are interested in involving their students in areas of active research. The workshop can also serve as a research renewal opportunity for faculty who want to re-engage in research or are considering a change of research area. The goals of the workshop are to promote undergraduate research in undergraduate institutions, and to forge lasting research collaborations among the participating faculty. The majority of the workshop will be spent working on problems in small research groups, reporting on progress, and formulating plans for future work. In addition to the workshop... (more) Close View Event Page Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) on the Mathematics of... Jul 18 - 22, 2016 Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) on the Mathematics of Data, at Duke University, Durham, NC Jul 18 - 22, 2016 × This workshop, sponsored by the National Science Foundation and the Departments of Mathematics and Statistical Science at Duke, is part of the REUF program that brings together leading research mathematicians with faculty at undergraduate institutions who are interested in involving their student in areas of active research. The Workshop is also a research renewal opportunity for faculty who want to re-engage in research or are considering a change of research. REUF on the Mathematics of Data will focus on the recently developing fields that lie at the interface of pure mathematics and big data analytics; for example, manifold learning, topological data analysis, and wavelet theory. Faculty trained in topology, geometry, algebra, or analysis will work on problem that are phrased in the language of their fields but are accessible to dedicated undergraduates through the use of computers. The majority of the workshop will be spent working in small research groups, reporting on progress,... (more) Close View Event Page Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) Jul 20 - 24, 2015 Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) Jul 20 - 24, 2015 × This workshop, sponsored by AIM, ICERM, and the NSF, will introduce undergraduate faculty to research opportunities in several fields of mathematics that will equip them with the tools to mentor students in undergraduate research in mathematics. Lectures at the workshop will provide background information and introduce open problems. The majority of the workshop will be spent working on problems, reporting on progress, and formulating plans for future work. The workshop will be hosted at ICERM. Accepted participants will receive support through AIM for travel, accommodation, and per diem. Preference will be given to faculty who teach and advise substantial numbers of minority students. If you would like to participate, please apply by filling out the on-line form. Applications open in January 2015 and are open to all. We especially encourage women, underrepresented minorities, junior mathematicians, and researchers from primarily undergraduate institutions to apply. For more... (more) Organizing Committee Leslie Hogben Roselyn Williams Ulrica Wilson Close View Event Page Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) at AIM Jul 7 - 11, 2014 Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) at AIM Jul 7 - 11, 2014 × The American Institute of Mathematics (AIM), co-sponsored by ICERM, invites applications for the Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) workshop to be held at AIM in Palo Alto, CA. This workshop, sponsored by AIM, ICERM, and the National Science Foundation, is one in a series of annual REUF workshops that bring together leading research mathematicians with faculty at undergraduate institutions who are interested in involving their students in areas of active research. The workshop can also serve as a research renewal opportunity for faculty who want to re--engage in research or are considering a change of research area. The goals of the workshop are to promote undergraduate research in undergraduate institutions, and to forge lasting research collaborations among the participating faculty. The majority of the workshop will be spent working on problems in small research groups, reporting on progress, and formulating plans for future work. In addition to the workshop... (more) Organizing Committee Leslie Hogben Roselyn Williams Ulrica Wilson Close View Event Page Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) Jul 22 - 26, 2013 Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) Jul 22 - 26, 2013 × This workshop, sponsored by AIM, ICERM, and the NSF, will introduce undergraduate faculty to research opportunities in several fields of mathematics that will equip them with the tools to mentor students in undergraduate research in mathematics. Lectures at the workshop will provide background information and introduce open problems. The majority of the workshop will be spent working on problems, reporting on progress, and formulating plans for future work. The workshop will be hosted at ICERM. Preference will be given to faculty who teach and advise substantial numbers of minority students. If you would like to participate, please apply by filling out the on-line form no later than March 22, 2013. Applications are open to all, and we especially encourage women, underrepresented minorities, junior mathematicians, and researchers from primarily undergraduate institutions to... (more) Organizing Committee Leslie Hogben Roselyn Williams Ulrica Wilson Close View Event Page Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) Jun 4 - 8, 2012 Research Experiences for Undergraduate Faculty (REUF) Jun 4 - 8, 2012 × This workshop, sponsored by AIM, ICERM, and the NSF, will introduce undergraduate faculty to research opportunities in several fields of mathematics that will equip them with the tools to mentor students in undergraduate research in mathematics. Lectures at the workshop will provide background information and introduce open problems. The majority of the workshop will be spent working on problems, reporting on progress, and formulating plans for future work. The workshop will be hosted at ICERM. Preference will be given to faculty who teach and advise substantial numbers of minority students. Mathematical topics at the workshop will include algebra, graph theory, and number theory. For more information email workshops@aimath.org or go to http://aimath.org/ARCC/workshops/reuf4.html. Organizing Committee Leslie Hogben Roselyn Williams Ulrica Wilson Close View Event Page ICERM 121 South Main Street, Box E 11th Floor Providence, RI 02903 info@icerm.brown.edu +1 (401) 863-5030