Home (current) Programs All Programs & Events Propose a Program Summer@ICERM Collaborate@ICERM GirlsGetMath@ICERM REUF Your Visit ICERM Facilities Traveling to ICERM Financial Support Explore Providence Professional Development Technology Resources IT Documentation Videos Video Archive Live Stream MathBytes About About ICERM NSF Support Directors & Staff Advisory Boards Postdocs & Researchers Diversity Jobs News Support ICERM Trustee & Advisory Boards Navigate Page Back to Top Board of Trustees Scientific Advisory Board Education Advisory Board ICERM Governance Principles Board of Trustees The Board of Trustees oversees all institute activities. This includes being responsible for reviewing the budget for the coming year, developing policies and procedures, advising on the appointment of new directors and actively recruiting for the position as needed, and taking a leadership role in fundraising and public awareness. The Board of Trustees has a face-to-face meeting at ICERM for one day each year (usually in late spring), and one or two conference-call meetings if needed. Board of Trustee member appointments are for four years. Chairs from the Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) and the Education Advisory Board (EAB), as well as the ICERM Directors, act as ex officio members. Ron Buckmire Occidental College Charles Epstein (Chair) University of Pennsylvania Anna Gilbert Yale University Leslie Greengard Flatiron Institute and NYU Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences Bruce Hendrickson Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Julia Kempe New York University Rachel Kuske Georgia Tech Mark Lewis Cornell University Jonathan Mattingly Duke University Karen Smith University of Michigan Board of Trustees 2021 From top left: Brendan Hassett, Ruth Crane, Leslie Greengard, Caroline Klivans, Bruce Hendrickson, Julia Kempe, Sigal Gottlieb, Jonathan Mattingly, Anna Gilbert, Karen Smith, Charles Epstein, Ulrica Wilson, Misha Kilmer, Marian Bocea, and Ron Buckmire. Not pictured: Stéphane Mallat and Jill Mesirov. Scientific Advisory Board The Scientific Advisory Board is responsible for approving the programs and scientific activities of the Institute. In addition, through direct communication with the Director, Science Board members are involved in shaping the direction of the scientific enterprise through specific suggestions of thematic programs and of program organizers. The Scientific Advisory Board has a face-to-face meeting at ICERM for 1.5 days each year (usually in late fall), and one or two conference-call meetings if needed. Scientific Advisory Board terms are for three years. The ICERM Directors act as ex officio members of this committee. Jennifer Balakrishnan Boston University Fioralba Cakoni Rutgers University Ivan Corwin Columbia University Anne Gelb Dartmouth College William Goldman University of Maryland Michael Holst University of California, San Diego Yael Tauman Kalai Microsoft Research Daniel Krashen University of Pennsylvania Nathan Kutz University of Washington Sven Leyffer (Chair) Argonne National Laboratory Mauro Maggioni Johns Hopkins University Rosa Orellana Dartmouth College Rachel Ward University of Texas Jon Wilkening UC Berkeley Scientific Advisory Board 2020 Top row, l-r: Liliana Borcea, Ulrica Wilson, Caroline Klivans, Henry Cohn; Second row, l-r: Anne Gelb, Brendan Hassett, Bill Goldman, Ivan Corwin; Third row, l-r: Jesus De Loera, Mauro Maggioni, Sven Leyffer, Jon Wilkening. Fourth Row: Rosa Orellana, Sigal Gottlieb, Joseph Silverman, Misha Kilmer. Not pictured: Rachel Ward. Education Advisory Board The Education Advisory Board 1) oversees the undergraduate research programs, and helps to develop and identify successful proposals, 2) helps to develop proposals for outreach programs and events that are aligned with the mission of the institute, and 3) helps to identify sources of funding for education and outreach activities. The Education Advisory Board has a face-to-face meeting at ICERM for a half-day each year (usually in early fall). Education Advisory Board terms are for three years. The ICERM Directors act as ex officio members of this committee. Tarik Aougab Haverford College Cathy Boutin West Warwick School Department (Math) John Ewing Math for America Thomas Garrity (Chair) Williams College Ryan Hynd University of Pennsylvania Rachel Levy NC State Katharine A. Ott Bates College Javier Rojo Oregon State University Jessica Sidman Mount Holyoke College Ulrica Wilson Morehouse College Education Advisory Board 2020 Top row, l-r: Brendan Hassett, Caroline Klivans, Sigal Gottlieb, Katharine, Ott; Second row, l-r: Jessica Sidman, Ulrica Wilson, Ryan Hynd, Thomas Garrity; Third row, l-r: John Ewing, Javier Rojo, Marian Bocea (NSF rep), and Cathy Boutin. Not picture: Tarik Aougab and Rachel Levy. ICERM Governance Principles The National Science Foundation, ICERM's core funder, expects that all of its mathematical sciences institutes have a mechanism in place for ensuring regular turnover in their governing boards and oversight of their directors. We are pleased to make available ICERM's governing principles. ICERM 121 South Main Street, Box E 11th Floor Providence, RI 02903 info@icerm.brown.edu +1 (401) 863-5030