COVID-19 Information for ICERM Participants ICERM follows Brown University's COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy. Starting in fall 2021, we anticipate that all ICERM scientific programming will be held in person at the institute. Participants must be registered via Cube for their program of interest and submit the required vaccination attestation in order to attend ICERM programs in person. Please see our ICERM COVID-19 Policies page for more details. Home (current) Programs All Programs & Events Propose a Program Summer@ICERM Collaborate@ICERM GirlsGetMath@ICERM REUF Your Visit ICERM Facilities Traveling to ICERM Financial Support Explore Providence Professional Development Technology Resources IT Documentation Videos Video Archive Live Stream MathBytes About About ICERM NSF Support Directors & Staff Advisory Boards Postdocs & Researchers Diversity Jobs News Support ICERM Prediction and Variability of Air-Sea Interactions: the South Asian Monsoon Jun 13 - 15, 2022 Apply with Cube Workshop Overview Workshop Participants Applications Your Visit to ICERM Visa Information Financial Support Workshop Overview Workshop Participants Applications Your Visit to ICERM Visa Information Financial Support Prediction and Variability of Air-Sea Interactions: the South Asian Monsoon (Jun 13 - 15, 2022) Apply with Cube Navigate Page Back to Top Workshop Overview Workshop Participants Applications Your Visit to ICERM Visa Information Financial Support Organizing Committee Baylor Fox-Kemper Brown University Jennifer MacKinnon UCSD - Scripps Institution of Oceanography Hyodae Seo Woods Hole Oceanographic Insititution Emily Shroyer Oregon State University Aneesh Subramanian University of Colorado Boulder Amit Tandon UMass Dartmouth Abstract A challenge for mathematical modeling, from toy dynamical system models to full weather and climate models, is applying data assimilation and dynamical systems techniques to models that exhibit chaos and stochastic variability in the presence of coupled slow and fast modes of variability. Recent collaborations between universities and government agencies in India and the United States have resulted in detailed observations of oceanic and atmospheric processes in the Bay of Bengal, the Arabian Sea, and the Indian Ocean, collectively observing many coupled modes of variability. One key target identified by these groups was the improvement of forecasts of variability of the summer monsoon, which significantly affects agriculture and water management practices throughout South Asia. The Monsoon Intraseasonal Oscillation is a northward propagating mode of precipitation variability and is one of the most conspicuous examples of coupled atmosphere-ocean processes during the summer monsoon. Simulating coupled atmosphere-ocean processes present mathematical challenges spanning numerical methods, data assimilation, stochastic modeling, dynamical systems and chaos, and uncertainty quantification. Predicting monsoon variability is one of the hardest, most important forecasting problems on earth due to its impact on billions of people, a key aspect of the desire to push weather forecasts into the management-actionable “medium-range” horizon of weeks to seasons. Addressing this challenge requires an interdisciplinary effort to combine observations, computation, and theory. A better understanding of these processes and how they can be represented in a variety of coupled ocean-atmosphere simulations and models (including statistical and dynamical approaches) and forecast systems (including data assimilation techniques and uncertainty quantification) is the primary topic of this workshop. While the set of observations to be discussed will emphasize this region, the mathematical and computational aspects of the program will be significantly broader, covering: coupled ocean-atmosphere modeling for weather models, climate models and idealized models; theory of the atmospheric and oceanic boundary layers, and waves on the interface; data assimilation in coupled modeling systems; and numerical methods for coupled systems. This workshop is a continuation of the virtual workshop held in August 2021. Confirmed Speakers & Participants Talks will be presented virtually or in-person as indicated in the schedule below. Search Sort Last Name (default) First Name Organization Speaker Poster Presenter Attendee Virtual Attendee Amit Apte IISER Pune Deepak Cherian NCAR Steven Clemens Brown University Rain Fan Brown University Baylor Fox-Kemper Brown University Rama Govindarajan International Centre for Theoretical Sciences, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research Momme Hell Brown University Sreelekha Jarugula NOAA PMEL Leah Johnson University of Washington Siddhant Kerhalkar University of Massachusetts Dartmouth Alex Kinsella Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution Amala Mahadevan Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution Manikandan Mathur IIT Madras Hieu Pham UC San Diego Suryachandra Rao Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology Tamara Schlosser Scripps Institution of Oceanography Hyodae Seo Woods Hole Oceanographic Insititution Emily Shroyer Oregon State University Aneesh Subramanian University of Colorado Boulder Amit Tandon UMass Dartmouth Vishal Vasan International Centre for Theoretical Sciences TIFR Application Information ICERM welcomes applications from faculty, postdocs, graduate students, industry scientists, and other researchers who wish to participate. Some funding may be available for travel and lodging. Graduate students who apply must have their advisor submit a statement of support in order to be considered. Apply with Cube Your Visit to ICERM ICERM Facilities ICERM is located on the 10th & 11th floors of 121 South Main Street in Providence, Rhode Island. ICERM's business hours are 8:00am - 4:00pm during this event. See our facilities page for more info about ICERM and Brown's available facilities. Traveling to ICERM ICERM is located at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. Providence's T.F. Green Airport (15 minutes south) and Boston's Logan Airport (1 hour north) are the closest airports. Providence is also on Amtrak's Northeast Corridor. In-depth directions and transportation information are available on our travel page. Lodging ICERM's special rate will soon be made available via this page for our preferred hotel, the Hampton Inn & Suites Providence Downtown. ICERM also regularly works with the Graduate Hotel and Hilton Garden Inn who both have discounted rates available. Contact housing@icerm.brown.edu before booking anything. The only way ICERM participants should book a room is through the hotel reservation links located on this page or through links emailed to them from an ICERM email address (first_last@icerm.brown.edu). ICERM never works with any conference booking vendors and never collects credit card information. Childcare/Schools Those traveling with family who are interested in information about childcare and/or schools should contact housing@icerm.brown.edu. Technology Resources Wireless internet access ("Brown-Guest") and wireless printing is available for all ICERM visitors. Eduroam is available for members of participating institutions. Thin clients in all offices and common areas provide open access to a web browser, SSH terminal, and printing capability. See our Technology Resources page for setup instructions and to learn about all available technology. Accessibility To request special services, accommodations, or assistance for this event, please contact accessibility@icerm.brown.edu as far in advance of the event as possible. Thank you. Discrimination and Harassment Policy ICERM is committed to creating a safe, professional, and welcoming environment that benefits from the diversity and experiences of all its participants. Brown University's "Code of Conduct", "Discrimination and Workplace Harassment Policy", "Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy", and "Title IX Policy" apply to all ICERM participants and staff. Participants with concerns or requests for assistance on a discrimination or harassment issue should contact the ICERM Director or Assistant Director of Finance & Administration; they are the responsible employees at ICERM under this policy. Exploring Providence Providence's world-renowned culinary scene provides ample options for lunch and dinner. Neighborhoods near campus, including College Hill Historic District, have many local attractions. Check out the map on our Explore Providence page to see what's near ICERM. Visa Information Contact visa@icerm.brown.edu for assistance. Eligible to be reimbursed B-1 or Visa Waiver Business (WB) Ineligible to be reimbursed B-2 or Visa Waiver Tourist (WT) Already in the US? F-1 and J-1 not sponsored by ICERM: need to obtain a letter approving reimbursement from the International Office of your home institution PRIOR to travel. H-1B holders do not need letter of approval. All other visas: alert ICERM staff immediately about your situation. ICERM does not reimburse visa fees. This chart is to inform visitors whether the visa they enter the US on allows them to receive reimbursement for the items outlined in their invitation letter. Financial Support This section is for general purposes only and does not indicate that all attendees receive funding. Please refer to your personalized invitation to review your offer. ORCID iD As this program is funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF), ICERM is required to collect your ORCID iD if you are receiving funding to attend this program. Be sure to add your ORCID iD to your Cube profile as soon as possible to avoid delaying your reimbursement. Acceptable Costs 1 roundtrip between your home institute and ICERM Flights on U.S. or E.U. airlines – economy class to either Providence airport (PVD) or Boston airport (BOS) Ground Transportation to and from airports and ICERM. Unacceptable Costs Flights on non-U.S. or non-E.U. airlines Flights on U.K. airlines Seats in economy plus, business class, or first class Change ticket fees of any kind Multi-use bus passes Meals or incidentals Advance Approval Required Personal car travel to ICERM from outside New England Multiple-destination plane ticket; does not include layovers to reach ICERM Arriving or departing from ICERM more than a day before or day after the program Multiple trips to ICERM Rental car to/from ICERM Flights on a Swiss, Japanese, or Australian airlines Arriving or departing from airport other than PVD/BOS or home institution's local airport 2 one-way plane tickets to create a roundtrip (often purchased from Expedia, Orbitz, etc.) Travel Maximum Contributions New England: $250 Other contiguous US: $750 Asia & Oceania: $2,000 All other locations: $1,500 Note these rates were updated in Spring 2022 and superseded any prior invitation rates. Any invitations without travel support will still not receive travel support. Reimbursement Requests Request Reimbursement with Cube Refer to the back of your ID badge for more information. Checklists are available at the front desk and in the Reimbursement section of Cube. Reimbursement Tips Scanned original receipts are required for all expenses Airfare receipt must show full itinerary and payment ICERM does not offer per diem or meal reimbursement Allowable mileage is reimbursed at prevailing IRS Business Rate and trip documented via pdf of Google Maps result Keep all documentation until you receive your reimbursement! Reimbursement Timing 6 - 8 weeks after all documentation is sent to ICERM. All reimbursement requests are reviewed by numerous central offices at Brown who may request additional documentation. Reimbursement Deadline Submissions must be received within 30 days of ICERM departure to avoid applicable taxes. Submissions after thirty days will incur applicable taxes. No submissions are accepted more than six months after the program end. ICERM 121 South Main Street, Box E 11th Floor Providence, RI 02903 info@icerm.brown.edu +1 (401) 863-5030