Home (current) Programs All Programs & Events Propose a Program Summer@ICERM Collaborate@ICERM GirlsGetMath@ICERM REUF Your Visit ICERM Facilities Traveling to ICERM Financial Support Explore Providence Professional Development Technology Resources IT Documentation Videos Video Archive Live Stream MathBytes About About ICERM NSF Support Directors & Staff Advisory Boards Postdocs & Researchers Diversity Jobs News Support ICERM Traveling to ICERM Navigate Page Back to Top Driving & Parking Providence T.F. Green Airport Boston Logan Airport Driving Directions & Parking Location & Address ICERM 121 South Main Street, 11th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Getting Around Campus and Providence The Brown campus and downtown Providence are easily walkable. The campus shuttle services are available to ICERM's long-term participants (10+ consecutive days) who have a Brown ID card. The Rhode Island Public Transportation Authority (RIPTA) has an extensive bus system that runs from downtown Providence, through the Brown campus, and beyond. Parking for Daily Commuters There are many self-pay parking lots near ICERM/121 South Main Street. Hotel Parking The average cost of parking at the downtown Providence hotels is $28/night (valet). There are also several downtown parking lots close to ICERM. Ask for daily, weekly or monthly rates, as appropriate. Driving Directions From Points North or South via I-95 Take 95 to exit 22A (Memorial Boulevard) At the 5th light, turn left on to South Water Street Take first left onto Packett Street Take next left onto South Main Street Our parking garage is located on the left From Points East via I-195 Take 195 West to exit 2 (South Main Street) Proceed straight through stop light at Wickenden Street Travel down South Main Street approximately half a mile Our parking garage is located on the left after Packett Street Ground Transporation from Providence T.F. Green Airport T.F. Green International Airport (PVD) is the primary airport servicing the Providence, RI area. Buses The Rhode Island Public Transportation Authority (RIPTA) buses stop directly in front of the T.F. Green airport terminal. Use the Rhode Island Public Transportation Authority (RIPTA) trip planner to find a bus that will transport you between "T.F. Green Airport" and "Kennedy Plaza". Kennedy Plaza is 5 to 7 blocks from ICERM and hotels. RIPTA’s one-way fare is $2.00 (cash). Plan for a 25 to 60 minute ride, depending on traffic and route. Taxis Taxis are available at T.F. Green airport. Allow 20 to 45 minutes, depending on traffic and time of day, and expect to pay approximately $30 (one way). Other ride-sharing options may be available. Hampton Inn & Suites Hotel Shuttle Participants staying at the Hampton Inn & Suites Providence can reserve their airport shuttle, based on availability. To check availability, costs, and secure a reservation, call: 401-608-3500. Ground Transporation from Boston Logan International Airport Boston Logan International Airport (BOS) is the closest alternate airport, approximately an hour north of Providence. Bus Peter Pan Bus stops directly in front of each airline terminal at Boston Logan Airport. Use the Peter Pan trip planner to find a bus that will transport you between "Boston (Logan Airport), MA" and "Providence (Downtown), RI". The "Providence (Downtown), RI" stop will bring you to Kennedy Plaza, which is 5 to 7 blocks from ICERM and hotels. Plan for a 1.5 to 2 hour ride, depending on traffic. Commuter Rail/Subway Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority (MBTA) commuter rail departs from Boston's South Station. You will need to either take a subway (“T”) or a cab to South Station from Boston Logan Airport. Use the MBTA Trip Planner to map out your trip from "South Station, Atlantic Avenue" to "Amtrak Station - PVD" (also known as Providence’s Union Station). Plan for 2+ hours. Train AMTRAK Trains depart from Boston's South Station. You will need to either take a subway (“T”) or a cab to South Station from Boston Logan Airport. Use the AMTRAK Train Finder to find a train from "Boston, MA - South Station (MA)" to "Providence, RI AMTRAK/T Station (PVD)" ICERM 121 South Main Street, Box E 11th Floor Providence, RI 02903 info@icerm.brown.edu +1 (401) 863-5030