COVID-19 Information for ICERM Participants ICERM follows Brown University's COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy. Starting in fall 2021, we anticipate that all ICERM scientific programming will be held in person at the institute. Participants must be registered via Cube for their program of interest and submit the required vaccination attestation in order to attend ICERM programs in person. Please see our ICERM COVID-19 Policies page for more details. Home (current) Programs All Programs & Events Propose a Program Summer@ICERM Collaborate@ICERM GirlsGetMath@ICERM REUF Your Visit ICERM Facilities Traveling to ICERM Financial Support Explore Providence Professional Development Technology Resources IT Documentation Videos Video Archive Live Stream MathBytes About About ICERM NSF Support Directors & Staff Advisory Boards Postdocs & Researchers Diversity Jobs News Support ICERM Data Science and Social Justice: Networks, Policy, and Education Jun 13 - Jul 8, 2022 Program Overview Program Participants Program Schedule Applications Your Visit to ICERM Visa Information Financial Support Program Workshops Program Overview Program Participants Program Schedule Applications Your Visit to ICERM Visa Information Financial Support Program Workshops Data Science and Social Justice: Networks, Policy, and Education (Jun 13 - Jul 8, 2022) Navigate Page Back to Top Program Overview Program Participants Program Schedule Applications Your Visit to ICERM Visa Information Financial Support Program Workshops Organizing Committee Carrie Diaz Eaton Bates College Joseph Hibdon Northeastern Illinois University Drew Lewis University of South Alabama Jessica Libertini Joint Special Operations University Michelle Manes National Science Foundation Omayra Ortega Sonoma State University Victor Piercey Ferris State University Bjorn Sandstede Brown University Talitha Washington Clark Atlanta University Tian An Wong University of Michigan-Dearborn Heather Zinn Brooks Harvey Mudd College (Claremont, CA, US) Abstract The Social Justice and Data Science Summer Research Program at ICERM aims to increase interest, research training, and capacity for data science for social justice, and to develop both quantitative and qualitative approaches to those professional practices that call for community engagement, critical inquiry, and interdisciplinary cooperation. In order to advance the mathematics community's understanding of the complexity of computational social justice work, the program will have four emphasis areas (1) networks, (2) policy, (3) education and (4) community-driven research. While the program itself is broadly computational and applied mathematics, researchers with expertise and interests in network science and analysis, open science and data, and computer science are particularly encouraged to apply. As a new field emerges at the face of computational and applied mathematics and social justice, this requires new methods for working across community lines. The organizers are committed to working with humility and in solidarity with the local community. The program will include a long-term project with the local community and invest in the education of the next generation of researchers by driving the development and direction of new computational methods for quantitative social justice research. As such, organizers will also consider applications from researchers with specialties in digital humanities, computational social science, and data science education. In order to address the novel and interdisciplinary problems arising out of community needs, participants will work together to develop new or refine existing computational methods whose applications may be broader than the original problem. Confirmed Speakers & Participants Talks will be presented virtually or in-person as indicated in the schedule below. Search Sort Last Name (default) First Name Organization Speaker Poster Presenter Attendee Virtual Attendee Nathan Alexander Morehouse College Manuchehr Aminian California State Polytechnic University, Pomona Atilio Barreda New York City College of Technology William Bork Rodriguez Michigan State University Ron Buckmire Occidental College Philip Chodrow University of California, Los Angeles Carrie Diaz Eaton Bates College Edgar Fuller Professor Joseph Hibdon Northeastern Illinois University Quindel Jones Virginia Commonwealth University Jakini Kauba Clemson University Katherine Kinnaird Smith College Harlin Lee UCLA Torina Lewis American Mathematical Society Drew Lewis University of South Alabama Jessica Libertini Joint Special Operations University Ariana Mendible Seattle University Omayra Ortega Sonoma State University Carlos Paniagua Salve Regina University Victor Piercey Ferris State University Rachel Roca Michigan State University Nancy Rodriguez University of Colorado at Boulder Bjorn Sandstede Brown University Chad Topaz Institute for the Quantitative Study of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Andres Vindas Melendez University of California, Berkeley Tian An Wong University of Michigan-Dearborn Heather Zinn Brooks Harvey Mudd College (Claremont, CA, US) Program Schedule Export Schedule Subscribe (iCal) Print View Customize Your device timezone is . Do you want to view schedules in or choose a custom timezone? Monday, June 27, 2022 Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems 8:30 - 8:50 am EDT Check In 11th Floor Collaborative Space 8:50 - 9:00 am EDT Welcome 11th Floor Lecture Hall Brendan Hassett, ICERM/Brown University 9:00 - 10:00 am EDT Mathematical and Computational Approaches to Social Justice: A Practical On-Ramp Tutorial - 11th Floor Lecture Hall Chad Topaz, Institute for the Quantitative Study of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Abstract This tutorial provides an overview of some concepts, tools, and approaches relevant to quantitative work in the social justice sphere. We will work together to answer questions like the following: What does research at the interface of data science and social justice even look like? What are the theoretical underpinnings of this work? How can one acquire, clean, explore, visualize, and analyze relevant data? What are typical technical and theoretical challenges a researcher might encounter? What does ethical research look like? What opportunities exist for mathematical sciences researchers to apply their skills to promote justice? 10:15 - 10:45 am EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space 10:45 - 11:45 am EDT Mathematical and Computational Approaches to Social Justice: A Practical On-Ramp Tutorial - 11th Floor Lecture Hall Chad Topaz, Institute for the Quantitative Study of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Abstract This tutorial provides an overview of some concepts, tools, and approaches relevant to quantitative work in the social justice sphere. We will work together to answer questions like the following: What does research at the interface of data science and social justice even look like? What are the theoretical underpinnings of this work? How can one acquire, clean, explore, visualize, and analyze relevant data? What are typical technical and theoretical challenges a researcher might encounter? What does ethical research look like? What opportunities exist for mathematical sciences researchers to apply their skills to promote justice? 12:00 - 2:00 pm EDT Lunch/Free Time 2:00 - 3:00 pm EDT Project Introductions Group Presentations - 11th Floor Lecture Hall Nathan Alexander, Morehouse College Philip Chodrow, University of California, Los Angeles Michelle Feng, CalTech Chad Topaz, Institute for the Quantitative Study of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Abstract Each group leader will be given 15 minutes to introduce their project. 3:15 - 3:45 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space 3:45 - 5:00 pm EDT Group Work 11th Floor Break Out Space - TBA 5:00 - 6:30 pm EDT Reception 11th Floor Collaborative Space Tuesday, June 28, 2022 Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems 9:00 - 10:00 am EDT An introduction to network analysis and modeling with applications to social contagion processes Tutorial - 11th Floor Lecture Hall Juan Restrepo, University of Colorado Boulder Abstract Networks can be used to study and create models of social, engineering, and biological systems. In this tutorial I will introduce basic concepts and methods of network analysis and provide some examples of simple social system models. Some of the topics that will be discussed are methods of representing networks, basic characteristics of network structure, tutorials on importing network datasets and generating synthetic networks, and examples of various social contagion models. The goal of this tutorial is to give the audience the tools to create and explore basic models of social dynamics on synthetic or existing network datasets. 10:15 - 10:45 am EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space 10:45 - 11:45 am EDT An introduction to network analysis and modeling with applications to social contagion processes Tutorial - 11th Floor Lecture Hall Juan Restrepo, University of Colorado Boulder Abstract Networks can be used to study and create models of social, engineering, and biological systems. In this tutorial I will introduce basic concepts and methods of network analysis and provide some examples of simple social system models. Some of the topics that will be discussed are methods of representing networks, basic characteristics of network structure, tutorials on importing network datasets and generating synthetic networks, and examples of various social contagion models. The goal of this tutorial is to give the audience the tools to create and explore basic models of social dynamics on synthetic or existing network datasets. 12:00 - 2:00 pm EDT Lunch/Free Time 2:00 - 3:00 pm EDT Group Work 11th Floor Break Out Space - TBA 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space 3:30 - 5:00 pm EDT Group Work 11th Floor Break Out Space - TBA Wednesday, June 29, 2022 Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems 9:00 - 10:00 am EDT Policing police networks: An invitation 11th Floor Lecture Hall Tian An Wong, University of Michigan-Dearborn Abstract 40 minutes for talk & 20 minutes for discussion In the summer of 2020, a large subset of the mathematical community agreed to boycott collaboration with the police. But how exactly have mathematicians collaborated with the police? In this talk, I will present a selective overview of predictive policing and predicting police, with a focus on network approaches, ranging from social network analysis of crime to network models of police misconduct, with a view towards a critical mathematical theory of policing. In doing so, I will make the case that there remains much interesting and urgent work to be done in this space. 10:15 - 10:45 am EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space 10:45 am - 12:00 pm EDT Group Work 11th Floor Break Out Space - TBA 12:00 - 2:00 pm EDT Lunch/Free Time 2:00 - 3:00 pm EDT Data Feminism in Action 11th Floor Lecture Hall Virtual Speaker Lauren Klein, Emory University Abstract 40 minutes for talk & 20 minutes for discussion What is data feminism? How is feminist thinking being incorporated into data-driven work? And how are scholars in the humanities and social sciences, in particular, bringing together data science and feminist theory in their research? Drawing from her recent book, Data Feminism (MIT Press, 2020), coauthored with Catherine D’Ignazio, Klein will present a set of principles for doing data science that are informed by the past several decades of intersectional feminist activism and critical thought. In order to illustrate these principles, she will focus on a recent research project which involves the development of a model of lexical semantic change that, when combined with network analysis, tells a new story about antislavery activism and interracial solidarity (or the difficulties thereof) in the nineteenth-century United States. This example demonstrates how feminist thinking can indeed be operationalized into more ethical, more intentional, and more capacious data practices--particularly with respect to networks--in the digital humanities, computational social science, and beyond. 3:15 - 3:45 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space 3:45 - 5:00 pm EDT Group Work 11th Floor Break Out Space - TBA Thursday, June 30, 2022 Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems 9:00 - 10:00 am EDT TBA 11th Floor Lecture Hall Justin Uhr, Brown University Abstract 40 minutes for talk & 20 minutes for discussion 10:15 - 10:45 am EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space 10:45 - 11:45 am EDT Supporting Network Analysis at the Center for Digital Scholarship 11th Floor Lecture Hall Speakers Ashley Champagne, Brown University Patrick Rashleigh, Brown University Virtual Speaker Maiah Letsch, Utrecht University Abstract 40 minutes for talk & 20 minutes for discussion The Center for Digital Scholarship at Brown University offers hands-on instruction on a variety of digital scholarship methodologies, including network analysis, and this presentation will offer a snapshot of our services. First, we will share one of the ways we introduce students to network analysis. Next, this presentation will demo how we have used network analysis for one of our projects, Stolen Relations: Recovering Stories of Indigenous Enslavement in the Americas, which is led by Professor Linford Fisher (Department of History, Brown University). The Stolen Relations project is a community-based effort to build a database of enslaved Indigenous people in order to promote greater understanding of the historical circumstances and ongoing trauma of settler colonialism. The team has used the biographical information related to enslaved Indigenous people to chart networks and relations. These are hard realities and difficult histories, but they need to be told fully so we can start to be more honest about the history of this country and think more clearly about how to make amends going forward. Network analysis is one such way we can tell part of this story. 11:45 - 11:50 am EDT Group Photo 11th Floor Lecture Hall 12:00 - 2:00 pm EDT Lunch/Free Time 2:00 - 3:00 pm EDT Group Work 11th Floor Break Out Space - TBA 3:00 - 3:30 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space 3:30 - 5:00 pm EDT Group Work 11th Floor Break Out Space - TBA Friday, July 1, 2022 Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems 9:00 - 10:00 am EDT Promoting effective and enduring collaboration in networks 11th Floor Lecture Hall Speaker Carrie Diaz Eaton, Bates College Virtual Speaker Jason Williams, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Abstract 40 minutes for talk & 20 minutes for discussion We synthesize ideas and experience from research coordination networks to discuss how to foster success for the future of social justice research involving data science and computational methods. Together, we will lead discuss goals for the collaboration network. To achieve those goals, we consider conversations that the community should have as they move towards collaborative teams, introducing tools and techniques for both team communication and computational collaboration. We also ask that individuals reflect on how their personal goals and strengths will help the research team and the network. 10:15 - 10:45 am EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space 10:45 - 11:45 am EDT Big Challenges and Resources in Interdisciplinary Teams Panel Discussion - 11th Floor Lecture Hall Panelists Manuchehr Aminian, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona Jude Higdon, QSIDE Institute Katherine Kinnaird, Smith College Sarah Shugars, NYU 12:00 - 2:00 pm EDT Lunch/Free Time 2:00 - 2:30 pm EDT Project 1 Presentation Group Presentations - 11th Floor Lecture Hall Project Leader Chad Topaz, Institute for the Quantitative Study of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity 2:45 - 3:15 pm EDT Project 2 Presentation Group Presentations - 11th Floor Lecture Hall Project Leader Philip Chodrow, University of California, Los Angeles 3:15 - 3:45 pm EDT Coffee Break 11th Floor Collaborative Space 3:45 - 4:15 pm EDT Project 3 Presentation Group Presentations - 11th Floor Lecture Hall Project Leader Michelle Feng, CalTech 4:30 - 5:00 pm EDT Project 4 Presentation Group Presentations - 11th Floor Lecture Hall Project Leader Nathan Alexander, Morehouse College Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems Jun 27 - Jul 1, 2022 × The goal of this workshop is to introduce participants to interdisciplinary collaborations and conversations in network science that are advancing social justice research through the study of social structures. This workshop will bring together social scientists, digital humanists, computational scientists, and mathematicians with experience in network theory and network analysis in social systems. This workshop will also showcase how mixed methods research (which combines qualitative analysis and quantitative analysis) with multidisciplinary perspectives leads to deeper insights and more ethical and responsible approaches. Workshop organizers will lead tutorials in the mathematics of network theory, finding and working with network data, and qualitative methods for networks in the social sciences. We will emphasize and showcase the use of a critical lens throughout the process, from model building to data collection and analysis, connecting us to a broader dialogue about algorithmic... (more) Organizing Committee Nancy Rodriguez Heather Zinn Brooks Close View Event Page Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems Jun 27 - Jul 1, 2022 × The goal of this workshop is to introduce participants to interdisciplinary collaborations and conversations in network science that are advancing social justice research through the study of social structures. This workshop will bring together social scientists, digital humanists, computational scientists, and mathematicians with experience in network theory and network analysis in social systems. This workshop will also showcase how mixed methods research (which combines qualitative analysis and quantitative analysis) with multidisciplinary perspectives leads to deeper insights and more ethical and responsible approaches. Workshop organizers will lead tutorials in the mathematics of network theory, finding and working with network data, and qualitative methods for networks in the social sciences. We will emphasize and showcase the use of a critical lens throughout the process, from model building to data collection and analysis, connecting us to a broader dialogue about algorithmic... (more) Organizing Committee Nancy Rodriguez Heather Zinn Brooks Close View Event Page Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems Jun 27 - Jul 1, 2022 × The goal of this workshop is to introduce participants to interdisciplinary collaborations and conversations in network science that are advancing social justice research through the study of social structures. This workshop will bring together social scientists, digital humanists, computational scientists, and mathematicians with experience in network theory and network analysis in social systems. This workshop will also showcase how mixed methods research (which combines qualitative analysis and quantitative analysis) with multidisciplinary perspectives leads to deeper insights and more ethical and responsible approaches. Workshop organizers will lead tutorials in the mathematics of network theory, finding and working with network data, and qualitative methods for networks in the social sciences. We will emphasize and showcase the use of a critical lens throughout the process, from model building to data collection and analysis, connecting us to a broader dialogue about algorithmic... (more) Organizing Committee Nancy Rodriguez Heather Zinn Brooks Close View Event Page Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems Jun 27 - Jul 1, 2022 × The goal of this workshop is to introduce participants to interdisciplinary collaborations and conversations in network science that are advancing social justice research through the study of social structures. This workshop will bring together social scientists, digital humanists, computational scientists, and mathematicians with experience in network theory and network analysis in social systems. This workshop will also showcase how mixed methods research (which combines qualitative analysis and quantitative analysis) with multidisciplinary perspectives leads to deeper insights and more ethical and responsible approaches. Workshop organizers will lead tutorials in the mathematics of network theory, finding and working with network data, and qualitative methods for networks in the social sciences. We will emphasize and showcase the use of a critical lens throughout the process, from model building to data collection and analysis, connecting us to a broader dialogue about algorithmic... (more) Organizing Committee Nancy Rodriguez Heather Zinn Brooks Close View Event Page Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems Jun 27 - Jul 1, 2022 × The goal of this workshop is to introduce participants to interdisciplinary collaborations and conversations in network science that are advancing social justice research through the study of social structures. This workshop will bring together social scientists, digital humanists, computational scientists, and mathematicians with experience in network theory and network analysis in social systems. This workshop will also showcase how mixed methods research (which combines qualitative analysis and quantitative analysis) with multidisciplinary perspectives leads to deeper insights and more ethical and responsible approaches. Workshop organizers will lead tutorials in the mathematics of network theory, finding and working with network data, and qualitative methods for networks in the social sciences. We will emphasize and showcase the use of a critical lens throughout the process, from model building to data collection and analysis, connecting us to a broader dialogue about algorithmic... (more) Organizing Committee Nancy Rodriguez Heather Zinn Brooks Close View Event Page Subscribe to ICERM Calendar (iCal) × ICERM provides an iCalendar (.ics) feeds for all events and talks. You may copy and paste the feed URL below into your preferred calendar app or click the Import Event Calendar button below. This feed includes all scheduled events for this program. Data Science and Social Justice: Networks, Policy, and Education Feed The above feed only contains events from this program. To subscribe to a feed with all programs and events, please use the full calendar feed URL from the calendar page. Import Event Calendar Close All event times are listed in ICERM local time in Providence, RI (Eastern Daylight Time / UTC-4). All event times are listed in . ICERM local time in Providence, RI is Eastern Daylight Time (UTC-4). Would you like to switch back to ICERM time or choose a different custom timezone? Customize Customize Schedules × By default, all schedules on the ICERM website display in ICERM's local timezone. You may customize the timezone settings or enable 24-hour times using the controls below. Select Timezone (GMT-11:00) Midway Island, Samoa (GMT-10:00) Hawaii (GMT-09:00) Alaska (GMT-08:00) Baja California (GMT-08:00) Pacific Time (US and Canada) (GMT-07:00) Arizona (GMT-07:00) Chihuahua, La Paz, Mazatlan (GMT-07:00) Mountain Time (US and Canada) (GMT-06:00) Central America (GMT-06:00) Central Time (US and Canada) (GMT-06:00) Guadalajara, Mexico City, Monterrey (GMT-06:00) Saskatchewan (GMT-05:00) Bogota, Lima, Quito (GMT-05:00) Eastern Time (US and Canada) (GMT-05:00) Indiana (East) (GMT-04:30) Caracas (GMT-04:00) Asuncion (GMT-04:00) Atlantic Time (Canada) (GMT-04:00) Cuiaba (GMT-04:00) Georgetown, La Paz, Manaus, San Juan (GMT-04:00) Santiago (GMT-03:30) Newfoundland and Labrador (GMT-03:00) Brasilia (GMT-03:00) Buenos Aires (GMT-03:00) Cayenne, Fortaleza (GMT-03:00) Greenland (GMT-03:00) Montevideo (GMT-03:00) Salvador (GMT-02:00) Mid-Atlantic (GMT-01:00) Azores (GMT-01:00) Cape Verde Islands (GMT) Greenwich Mean Time : Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London (GMT) Casablanca, Monrovia (GMT+01:00) Amsterdam, Berlin, Bern, Rome, Stockholm, Vienna (GMT+01:00) Belgrade, Bratislava, Budapest, Ljubljana, Prague (GMT+01:00) Brussels, Copenhagen, Madrid, Paris (GMT+01:00) Sarajevo, Skopje, Warsaw, Zagreb (GMT+01:00) West Central Africa (GMT+01:00) Windhoek (GMT+02:00) Athens, Bucharest (GMT+02:00) Beirut (GMT+02:00) Cairo (GMT+02:00) Damascus (GMT+02:00) Eastern Europe (GMT+02:00) Harare, Pretoria (GMT+02:00) Helsinki, Kiev, Riga, Sofia, Tallinn, Vilnius (GMT+02:00) Istanbul (GMT+02:00) Jerusalem (GMT+03:00) Amman (GMT+03:00) Baghdad (GMT+03:00) Kalinigrad, Minsk (GMT+03:00) Kuwait, Riyadh (GMT+03:00) Nairobi (GMT+03:30) Tehran (GMT+04:00) Abu Dhabi, Muscat (GMT+04:00) Dubai (GMT+04:00) Baku (GMT+04:00) Moscow, St. Petersburg, Volgograd (GMT+04:00) Port Louis (GMT+04:00) Tblisi (GMT+04:00) Yerevan (GMT+04:30) Kabul (GMT+05:00) Islamabad, Karachi (GMT+05:00) Tashkent (GMT+05:30) Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi (GMT+05:30) Sri Jayawardenepura (GMT+05:45) Kathmandu (GMT+06:00) Astana (GMT+06:00) Dhaka (GMT+06:00) Ekaterinburg (GMT+06:30) Yangon (Rangoon) (GMT+07:00) Bangkok, Hanoi, Jakarta (GMT+07:00) Novosibirsk (GMT+08:00) Beijing, Chongqing, Hong Kong SAR, Urumqi (GMT+08:00) Krasnoyarsk (GMT+08:00) Kuala Lumpur, Singapore (GMT+08:00) Perth (GMT+08:00) Taipei (GMT+08:00) Ulaanbaatar (GMT+09:00) Irkutsk (GMT+09:00) Osaka, Sapporo, Tokyo (GMT+09:00) Seoul (GMT+09:30) Adelaide (GMT+09:30) Darwin (GMT+10:00) Brisbane (GMT+10:00) Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney (GMT+10:00) Guam, Port Moresby (GMT+10:00) Hobart (GMT+10:00) Yakutsk (GMT+11:00) Solomon Islands, New Caledonia (GMT+11:00) Vladivostok (GMT+12:00) Auckland, Wellington (GMT+12:00) Fiji Islands, Kamchatka, Marshall Islands (GMT+12:00) Magadan (GMT+13:00) Nuku'alofa (GMT+13:00) Samoa Options Use 24-hour time Reset Cancel Apply Schedule Timezone Updated × Application Information ICERM welcomes applications from faculty, postdocs, graduate students, industry scientists, and other researchers who wish to participate in one of our long programs. Some funding may be available for travel and lodging. Applications will be accepted up until the start of the program and will be considered as long as funds and space are available. Any graduate student who applies should have research interests that relate to the program topic; a statement of support from the advisor is required. Applications are not currently open. Please check back at a later date. Your Visit to ICERM ICERM Facilities ICERM is located on the 10th & 11th floors of 121 South Main Street in Providence, Rhode Island. ICERM's business hours are 8:00am - 4:00pm during this event. See our facilities page for more info about ICERM and Brown's available facilities. Traveling to ICERM ICERM is located at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. Providence's T.F. Green Airport (15 minutes south) and Boston's Logan Airport (1 hour north) are the closest airports. Providence is also on Amtrak's Northeast Corridor. In-depth directions and transportation information are available on our travel page. Lodging ICERM's special rate will soon be made available via this page for our preferred hotel, the Hampton Inn & Suites Providence Downtown. ICERM also regularly works with the Graduate Hotel and Hilton Garden Inn who both have discounted rates available. Contact housing@icerm.brown.edu before booking anything. The only way ICERM participants should book a room is through the hotel reservation links located on this page or through links emailed to them from an ICERM email address (first_last@icerm.brown.edu). ICERM never works with any conference booking vendors and never collects credit card information. Childcare/Schools Those traveling with family who are interested in information about childcare and/or schools should contact housing@icerm.brown.edu. Technology Resources Wireless internet access ("Brown-Guest") and wireless printing is available for all ICERM visitors. Eduroam is available for members of participating institutions. Thin clients in all offices and common areas provide open access to a web browser, SSH terminal, and printing capability. See our Technology Resources page for setup instructions and to learn about all available technology. Accessibility To request special services, accommodations, or assistance for this event, please contact accessibility@icerm.brown.edu as far in advance of the event as possible. Thank you. Discrimination and Harassment Policy ICERM is committed to creating a safe, professional, and welcoming environment that benefits from the diversity and experiences of all its participants. Brown University's "Code of Conduct", "Discrimination and Workplace Harassment Policy", "Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy", and "Title IX Policy" apply to all ICERM participants and staff. Participants with concerns or requests for assistance on a discrimination or harassment issue should contact the ICERM Director or Assistant Director of Finance & Administration; they are the responsible employees at ICERM under this policy. Exploring Providence Providence's world-renowned culinary scene provides ample options for lunch and dinner. Neighborhoods near campus, including College Hill Historic District, have many local attractions. Check out the map on our Explore Providence page to see what's near ICERM. Visa Information Contact visa@icerm.brown.edu for assistance. Eligible to be reimbursed B-1 or Visa Waiver Business (WB) Ineligible to be reimbursed B-2 or Visa Waiver Tourist (WT) Already in the US? F-1 and J-1 not sponsored by ICERM: need to obtain a letter approving reimbursement from the International Office of your home institution PRIOR to travel. H-1B holders do not need letter of approval. All other visas: alert ICERM staff immediately about your situation. ICERM does not reimburse visa fees. This chart is to inform visitors whether the visa they enter the US on allows them to receive reimbursement for the items outlined in their invitation letter. Financial Support This section is for general purposes only and does not indicate that all attendees receive funding. Please refer to your personalized invitation to review your offer. ORCID iD As this program is funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF), ICERM is required to collect your ORCID iD if you are receiving funding to attend this program. Be sure to add your ORCID iD to your Cube profile as soon as possible to avoid delaying your reimbursement. Acceptable Costs 1 roundtrip between your home institute and ICERM Flights on U.S. or E.U. airlines – economy class to either Providence airport (PVD) or Boston airport (BOS) Ground Transportation to and from airports and ICERM. Unacceptable Costs Flights on non-U.S. or non-E.U. airlines Flights on U.K. airlines Seats in economy plus, business class, or first class Change ticket fees of any kind Multi-use bus passes Meals or incidentals Advance Approval Required Personal car travel to ICERM from outside New England Multiple-destination plane ticket; does not include layovers to reach ICERM Arriving or departing from ICERM more than a day before or day after the program Multiple trips to ICERM Rental car to/from ICERM Flights on a Swiss, Japanese, or Australian airlines Arriving or departing from airport other than PVD/BOS or home institution's local airport 2 one-way plane tickets to create a roundtrip (often purchased from Expedia, Orbitz, etc.) Travel Maximum Contributions New England: $250 Other contiguous US: $750 Asia & Oceania: $2,000 All other locations: $1,500 Note these rates were updated in Spring 2022 and superseded any prior invitation rates. Any invitations without travel support will still not receive travel support. Reimbursement Requests Request Reimbursement with Cube Refer to the back of your ID badge for more information. Checklists are available at the front desk and in the Reimbursement section of Cube. Reimbursement Tips Scanned original receipts are required for all expenses Airfare receipt must show full itinerary and payment ICERM does not offer per diem or meal reimbursement Allowable mileage is reimbursed at prevailing IRS Business Rate and trip documented via pdf of Google Maps result Keep all documentation until you receive your reimbursement! Reimbursement Timing 6 - 8 weeks after all documentation is sent to ICERM. All reimbursement requests are reviewed by numerous central offices at Brown who may request additional documentation. Reimbursement Deadline Submissions must be received within 30 days of ICERM departure to avoid applicable taxes. Submissions after thirty days will incur applicable taxes. No submissions are accepted more than six months after the program end. Associated Program Workshops Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems Jun 27 - Jul 1, 2022 Interdisciplinary Network Analysis Methods for Analyzing Social Systems Jun 27 - Jul 1, 2022 × The goal of this workshop is to introduce participants to interdisciplinary collaborations and conversations in network science that are advancing social justice research through the study of social structures. This workshop will bring together social scientists, digital humanists, computational scientists, and mathematicians with experience in network theory and network analysis in social systems. This workshop will also showcase how mixed methods research (which combines qualitative analysis and quantitative analysis) with multidisciplinary perspectives leads to deeper insights and more ethical and responsible approaches. Workshop organizers will lead tutorials in the mathematics of network theory, finding and working with network data, and qualitative methods for networks in the social sciences. We will emphasize and showcase the use of a critical lens throughout the process, from model building to data collection and analysis, connecting us to a broader dialogue about algorithmic... (more) Organizing Committee Nancy Rodriguez Heather Zinn Brooks Close View Event Page ICERM 121 South Main Street, Box E 11th Floor Providence, RI 02903 info@icerm.brown.edu +1 (401) 863-5030