Skip to Content Center on Disability and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search Our Units and CentersExpand Collapse section Taishoff Center for Inclusive Higher Education InclusiveU Center on Human Policy Inclusion and Communication Initiatives Mid-State Partnership Pre-Employment Transition Services ProjectsExpand Collapse section Neurodiversity at SU Baldanza Fellows Program News Events Contact Us Search Search Inclusion and Communication Initiatives Home Inclusion and Communication Initiatives Inclusion and Communication Initiatives (formerly the Institute on Communication and Inclusion) at Syracuse University is an active research, training, and support center, and the nation’s leading resource for information about communication and inclusion for individuals who type to communicate. We conduct and disseminate cutting-edge research, and share the latest from scholars at other universities and research centers. Training Services and Workshops Link The ICI hosts events such as introductory and in-depth workshops, skill building sessions, and summer institutes, as well as a staffed practice room time to support typers and facilitators. Save the date for our Fall In-Person ICI Introductory Training Workshop: Thursday and Friday, October 6 & 7, 2022. Registration will open on July 1 with credit card payment available. Advocacy and Community Link The ICI promotes advocacy and community building through events like the Saturday Series and Focus on Practice, providing a supportive and encouraging atmosphere for practice and skill development. We also invite all persons who type to communicate, their mentors/family members, and professionals to join in the conversation on the ICI Blog or Join our closed ICI typers Facebook Group. Submit posts to iciblog@syr.edu. Technical Assistance Link The ICI provides evaluation, consultation, and assistance to families, school districts, and related service agencies to support access to communication and education for individuals with complex needs. Contact us for additional information. Contact Us Link Inclusion and Communication Initiatives 330 Huntington Hall Syracuse, NY 13244-2340 Phone: 315.443.9379 Fax: 315.443.2274 E-mail: ICIstaff@syr.edu More ICI About Us and Staff Typing to Communicate Current Research and Projects Resources on Typing Research Statement Upcoming ICI Events Reserve Our Practice Room Join our Mailing List Center on Disability and Inclusion, 370 Huntington Hall, Syracuse NY 13244 | cdi@syr.edu Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy