About About ICLS Affiliated Departments Contact Us People Executive Committee Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Medical Humanities Advisory Board Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Visiting Scholars Alumni News Undergraduate Admissions to the Majors or Concentration Comparative Literature and Society Major Medical Humanities Major Concentration in Comparative Literature and Society Departmental Honors Catherine Medalia Johannet Memorial Prize in Comparative Literature & Society Senior Thesis Guidelines Graduate About the Graduate Certificate Graduate Admissions Art, Architecture, and Social Sciences Track Language and Literature Track M.Phil. Requirements Dissertation Prospectus Review Dissertation Defense for ICLS Students Psychoanalytic Studies Program Initiatives Current Initiatives Past Initiatives Events Events (Upcoming) Events (Past) News Courses Select Page Psychoanalytic Studies Program Stathis Gourgouris, Co-Director of the Psychoanalytic Studies Program and Professor of Classics, English, and Comparative Literature and Society Adele Tutter, Co-Director of the Psychoanalytic Studies Program and Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry and the Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research at CUMC. PSP CORE FACULTY GROUP: Gil Anidjar (MESAAS/Religion) Marcus Coelen (ICLS Visiting Professor AY21/22) Thomas Dodman (French) Lydia Goehr (Philosophy) Stathis Gourgouris (Classics/English/ICLS) Jonathan House (Psychiatry) Lydia H. Liu (EALAC) Eric Marcus (Clinical Psychiatry), Director of Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research Fred Neuhouser (Philosophy) Karen Seeley (Anthropology) Maura Spiegel (English) Adele Tutter (Clinical Psychiatry) ABOUT THE PROGRAM The Psychoanalytic Studies Program (PSP) is a non-degree and non-clinical program. The student receives a graduate certificate in Psychoanalytic Studies upon fulfillment of the program’s requirements. In addition to issues of research, the PSP deals with the theory, application, and history of psychoanalytic thought and practice across a broad range of disciplines. The program is designed to meet the needs of students in the humanities and social sciences who want to gain a strong background in psychoanalytic concepts of mind, culture and science to enrich their graduate training and inform their dissertation research. The PSP is offered by the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and it is housed at ICLS. This certificate is open only to students already enrolled in a graduate program in the Arts and Sciences at Columbia, and is primarily designed for students pursuing a doctorate in departments in the humanities and social sciences, although students in free-standing Master’s programs may enroll in the core courses (and electives) and complete the certificate. The PSP will give students an additional and valuable set of methodological and disciplinary tools should they decide to pursue an academic or other professional career where cross-disciplinary training, research and teaching ability are increasingly valued. Course requirements consist of a minimum of six-seven courses (no fewer than 21 credits), which can be taken at any time and in any order during the student’s graduate career. Students are required to take two core courses: “Core Concepts of Freud’s Thinking” (CLPS G4200) and “Core Concepts of Post-Freudian Thought” (CLPS G4201), which are offered regularly under the auspices of the Institute for Comparative Literature and Society. The two core courses must be taken for a letter grade. Students will also choose at least four classes from a list of approved electives (any CLPS course subjects) to complete the total minimum requirement of six-seven courses (21 credits). Students can also petition the PSP Director to approve relevant courses not offered on under the CLPS course subject by providing appropriate documentation (course syllabus, term paper topic, etc.). At least two of the elective courses must be taken for a letter grade. Please submit the following worksheet with DGS signature and your one-page rationale for entering the program as soon as you plan to begin the certificate program. Worksheets should be submitted to the administrative office of the Institute for Comparative Literature and Society (HB1-1 Heyman Center, Mail Code 5700) or via email to our Assistant Director Sarah Monks. As you proceed through the program, continue to update your worksheet with the ICLS Administrative office. Upon completing the coursework, a student should submit a one-page evaluation of their academic experience in the PSP to attach to their worksheet to the ICLS office. Faculty and students interested in Psychoanalytical events at ICLS should request to join the ICLS-PSP listserv via an email to icls@columbia.edu. DOWNLOAD MATERIALS Psychoanalytic Studies Program Certificate Worksheet Facebook Twitter Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress The Heyman Center for the Humanities, Room B-101 74 Morningside Drive New York, NY, 10027 (212) 854-4541 (212) 854-3099 icls@columbia.edu facebook Twitter Youtube Click Here to subscribe to the ICLS Newsletter ©2019 Columbia University | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* View: Materials – Psychoanalytic Program - start */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ .material-title { padding-bottom: 20px; line-height: 1.2em; font-size: 20px; } /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* View: Materials – Psychoanalytic Program - end */ /* ----------------------------------------- */