About About ICLS Affiliated Departments Contact Us People Executive Committee Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Medical Humanities Advisory Board Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Visiting Scholars Alumni News Undergraduate Admissions to the Majors or Concentration Comparative Literature and Society Major Medical Humanities Major Concentration in Comparative Literature and Society Departmental Honors Catherine Medalia Johannet Memorial Prize in Comparative Literature & Society Senior Thesis Guidelines Graduate About the Graduate Certificate Graduate Admissions Art, Architecture, and Social Sciences Track Language and Literature Track M.Phil. Requirements Dissertation Prospectus Review Dissertation Defense for ICLS Students Psychoanalytic Studies Program Initiatives Current Initiatives Past Initiatives Events Events (Upcoming) Events (Past) News Courses Select Page Departmental Honors To be eligible for departmental honors students must have a minimum grade point average of 3.6 for courses in the major. Departmental honors will be conferred only on students who have submitted a superior senior thesis that clearly demonstrates originality and excellent scholarship. Please note that the senior thesis is not required for the major. Majors interested in undertaking a senior thesis should identify in the spring of their junior year a faculty member who is willing to supervise their thesis work. The faculty member should be approached with a short proposal that describes the thesis project, upon which they will decide whether to undertake the supervision of the work. After securing an adviser, students should enroll in CPLS UN3995 Senior Thesis in Comparative Literature and Society, a year-long course in the fall and spring of their senior year. The thesis director is the person responsible for assigning a final grade for this course. For more information on writing a senior thesis for ICLS, please see our guide. Departmental Honors will be granted to those students whose work is deemed deserving of honors by a committee of faculty members that will be constituted for that purpose. The thesis should be turned in on the due date as hard copy to the DUS, who will forward it to the members of the faculty committee that will adjudicate on the awarding of honors. Please keep in mind that, according to Columbia College rules, no more than 10% of the majors graduating in a department or program in a given year may be awarded Departmental Honors. Facebook Twitter Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress The Heyman Center for the Humanities, Room B-101 74 Morningside Drive New York, NY, 10027 (212) 854-4541 (212) 854-3099 icls@columbia.edu facebook Twitter Youtube Click Here to subscribe to the ICLS Newsletter ©2019 Columbia University | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination