About About ICLS Affiliated Departments Contact Us People Executive Committee Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Medical Humanities Advisory Board Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Visiting Scholars Alumni News Undergraduate Admissions to the Majors or Concentration Comparative Literature and Society Major Medical Humanities Major Concentration in Comparative Literature and Society Departmental Honors Catherine Medalia Johannet Memorial Prize in Comparative Literature & Society Senior Thesis Guidelines Graduate About the Graduate Certificate Graduate Admissions Art, Architecture, and Social Sciences Track Language and Literature Track M.Phil. Requirements Dissertation Prospectus Review Dissertation Defense for ICLS Students Psychoanalytic Studies Program Initiatives Current Initiatives Past Initiatives Events Events (Upcoming) Events (Past) News Courses Select Page Increasing COVID-19 Vaccine Confidence Visit the Columbia World Projects page for more info! As the first Humanities project by the Columbia World Projects, this project seeks to increase public confidence in the COVID-19 vaccine. By harnessing the power of data science and artificial intelligence, it will develop evidence-based public messaging that encourages vaccination, in partnership with local public health departments.Nearly a year into the global COVID-19 pandemic, we have reached a critical moment where several vaccines have been approved for use, and the possibility of curbing the spread of the virus is within reach if enough individuals are vaccinated. Over the past two decades, an increasing proportion of the population has come to view vaccines with skepticism, and in many cases, refrained from getting vaccinated altogether. While the procedural, behavioral and access barriers to vaccine uptake have been studied extensively, the emotional, ideological and rhetorical bases for vaccine hesitancy are poorly understood. This limited understanding, combined with public distrust in science and government, is likely to undermine efforts to robustly and quickly vaccinate against COVID-19.The project will engage vaccine makers, literary scholars, data scientists, political scientists, community leaders and public health officials. It will create the world’s largest public dataset of vaccine-hesitant language in English, collected from online forums such as Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, which have become primary platforms for discussing and disseminating vaccine skepticism and other vaccine-related concerns. Leveraging the power of such collected data, the project will use artificial intelligence to develop public messaging that reflects the ways in which people express specific forms of hesitancy. This approach represents a significant effort to use AI to analyze the language of vaccine hesitancy and then use that language to combat vaccine skepticism. Collaborating on this project will be: Rishi K. Goyal (Director, Medical Humanities Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine at the Columbia University Medical Center (in Medical Humanities and Ethics and the Institute for Comparative Literature and Society)) Dennis Yi Tenen (Associate Professor, English Literature, Digital Humanities, and New Media Studies) Noémie Elhadad (Associate Professor of Biomedical Informatics, affiliated with Computer Science and the Data Science Institute) Kathleen R. McKeown (Founding Director of the Data Science Institute, Henry and Gertrude Rothschild Professor of Computer Science) Melissa Stockwell (Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and an Associate Professor of Pediatrics (Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons) and Population and Family Health (Mailman School of Public Health)) Prerna Singh (Mahatma Gandhi Associate Professor of Political Science and International Studies at Brown University) Institutional Partners: Ulster County, State of New York The Vaccine Confidence Project Read the Columbia News article “What Can We Do to Reduce Vaccine Hesitancy?” from April 08, 2021. Watch this KGW NEWS interview “Vaccine Hesitancy: You can’t answer a feeling with a fact” from April 26, 2021. Read this LA Times op-ed “Why ‘my body, my choice’ defines vaccine skepticism” from May 22, 2021. Related Events Facebook Twitter Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress The Heyman Center for the Humanities, Room B-101 74 Morningside Drive New York, NY, 10027 (212) 854-4541 (212) 854-3099 icls@columbia.edu facebook Twitter Youtube Click Here to subscribe to the ICLS Newsletter ©2019 Columbia University | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* Content Template: Initiatives Single Posts Template - start */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* Content Template: Initiatives Single Posts Template - end */ /* ----------------------------------------- */