About About ICLS Affiliated Departments Contact Us People Executive Committee Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Medical Humanities Advisory Board Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Visiting Scholars Alumni News Undergraduate Admissions to the Majors or Concentration Comparative Literature and Society Major Medical Humanities Major Concentration in Comparative Literature and Society Departmental Honors Catherine Medalia Johannet Memorial Prize in Comparative Literature & Society Senior Thesis Guidelines Graduate About the Graduate Certificate Graduate Admissions Art, Architecture, and Social Sciences Track Language and Literature Track M.Phil. Requirements Dissertation Prospectus Review Dissertation Defense for ICLS Students Psychoanalytic Studies Program Initiatives Current Initiatives Past Initiatives Events Events (Upcoming) Events (Past) News Courses Select Page About the Graduate Certificate The Certificate in Comparative Literature and Society is granted by the Graduate School of the Arts and Sciences on the recommendation of the Executive Committee of the Institute for Comparative Literature and Society. The certificate enables PhD candidates from ICLS Affiliated Departments to pursue comparative and cross-disciplinary work. There are two tracks for the Certificate: Art, Architecture, and Social Sciences track Language and Literature track The Art, Architecture, and Social Sciences track supports work that couples social scientific investigation with hermeneutic and semiotic questions about the construction of meaning as traditionally pursued in the humanities. The Language and Literature track fosters comparative work across regions and disciplines, encouraging candidates to work in primary materials in more than one language, or work drawing on different disciplinary methodologies. Candidates for the certificate are expected to declare their interest in ICLS at the time of application or within two years after admission to the Graduate School. They are required to meet with the Director of Graduate Studies at least once each year for the first two years of study. Detailed admissions information can be found here. Students earning the Certificate in Comparative Literature and Society must fulfill the Certificate requirements while simultaneously fulfilling home department requirements (requirements for ICLS and for the home department overlap in some instances – please consult the ICLS Director of Graduate Studies and/or ICLS office for further details.) The steps for successful completion of the Certificate include: a. Admission to the Program b. Course and Language Requirement completion for the appropriate track. (Tracks are determined by your PhD home department.) c. MPhil Requirements met. d. Passing the Dissertation Prospectus Review by ICLS. ICLS Director of Graduate Studies Stathis Gourgouris 608 Hamilton, Mail Code: 2861 Office hours (Fall 2021): TBA. By appointment: email ssg93@columbia.edu Facebook Twitter Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress The Heyman Center for the Humanities, Room B-101 74 Morningside Drive New York, NY, 10027 (212) 854-4541 (212) 854-3099 icls@columbia.edu facebook Twitter Youtube Click Here to subscribe to the ICLS Newsletter ©2019 Columbia University | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination