About About ICLS Affiliated Departments Contact Us People Executive Committee Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Medical Humanities Advisory Board Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Visiting Scholars Alumni News Undergraduate Admissions to the Majors or Concentration Comparative Literature and Society Major Medical Humanities Major Concentration in Comparative Literature and Society Departmental Honors Catherine Medalia Johannet Memorial Prize in Comparative Literature & Society Senior Thesis Guidelines Graduate About the Graduate Certificate Graduate Admissions Art, Architecture, and Social Sciences Track Language and Literature Track M.Phil. Requirements Dissertation Prospectus Review Dissertation Defense for ICLS Students Psychoanalytic Studies Program Initiatives Current Initiatives Past Initiatives Events Events (Upcoming) Events (Past) News Courses Select Page Ambedkar Initiative Listen to our newly released B.R. Ambedkar student podcasts here. View an interactive Knightmap curated by Samuel Needleman. B. R. Ambedkar is arguably one of Columbia University’s most illustrious alumni, and a democratic thinker and constitutional lawyer who had enormous impact in shaping India, the world’s largest democracy. As is well known, Ambedkar came to Columbia University in July 1913 to start a doctoral program in Political Science. He graduated in 1915 with a Masters degree, and got his doctorate from Columbia in 1927 after having studied with some of the great figures of interwar American thought including John Dewey. Columbia University awarded Ambedkar with an honorary LL.D. in 1952. ICLS is pleased to announce the Ambedkar Initiative, led by Professor Anupama Rao. The Ambedkar Initiative links Columbia University with the anti-caste legacy of B. R. Ambedkar and recognizes his continued relevance to discussions about social justice, affirmative action, and democratic thinking in a global frame. Our project is dedicated to: *Exploring genealogies of radical democracy outside the North Atlantic *Addressing the complex interrelationship of identity inequality in global frame *Recognizing emergent affinities and solidarities in the struggle for recognition and social justice At present, this multi-pronged Initiative consists of the following scholarly and Public Humanities components: 1) The Annual Ambedkar Lectures supported by the EVP, Columbia; Provost, Barnard College; Dean of Humanities; Dean of Social Sciences; and various departments and units at Barnard and Columbia. 2) B. R. Ambedkar Book Series published by Columbia University Press. 3) The course, “Columbia University and B. R. Ambedkar,”which draws on relevant holdings at the RBML, [Rare Books and Manuscript Library] and which is being developed with the support of RBML librarian Thai Jones, and student researchers. 4) Public exhibits, installations, readings and workshops to commemorate Dalit activism, aesthetics, and public culture. 5) Development of Ambedkar Research Fellowships to enable scholars to conduct brief spells of library research at Columbia University and in the broader New York city area. (in progress) The video recordings of the Inaugural Ambedkar Lectures are available on Youtube to view. To access the videos, click here . Our student podcast can be listened to here. Read the Borderlines article, “Dalit is the New Political and Epistemic Horizon: An Interview with Suraj Yengde,” from November 23, 2020. Related Events Dalit Film and Cultural Festival (DALIFF) Practicing Caste: On Touching and Not Touching Inaugural Ambedkar Lectures | Ambedkar Now Inaugural Ambedkar Lectures | Global Ambedkar To Think Otherwise: An Interview with Anupama Rao B. R. Ambedkar and the Study of Religion at Columbia University: Castes in India, Gender and Primitivity Ambedkar Lectures on Youtube Fifth International Conference on the Legacy of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar at the New School Workshop for the Cambridge Companion on B.R. Ambedkar Second Annual Ambedkar Lectures |Race, Caste, and American Pragmatism Second Annual Ambedkar Lectures |Remaking Publics: Gender, Affect, Insurgence, Presence Suraj Yengde in Conversation with Anupama Rao on his recent publication Caste Matters Rethinking Caste Intersectionality: A Conference on Caste, Gender, and Race (Cancelled) Film Screening, “Recasting Selves” Followed by a discussion with director Lalit Vachani Understanding Systemic Racism | Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak Understanding Systemic Racism | Nico Slate on Race, Caste, and Democracy Understanding Systemic Racism | Race, the Human, and Humanity in These Times Understanding Systemic Racism | Suryakant Waghmore Urban Democracy: Caste and the City Understanding Systemic Racism | The Third Annual Ambedkar Lecture by Isabel Wilkerson Facebook Twitter Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress The Heyman Center for the Humanities, Room B-101 74 Morningside Drive New York, NY, 10027 (212) 854-4541 (212) 854-3099 icls@columbia.edu facebook Twitter Youtube Click Here to subscribe to the ICLS Newsletter ©2019 Columbia University | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* Content Template: Initiatives Single Posts Template - start */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* Content Template: Initiatives Single Posts Template - end */ /* ----------------------------------------- */