About About ICLS Affiliated Departments Contact Us People Executive Committee Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Medical Humanities Advisory Board Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Visiting Scholars Alumni News Undergraduate Admissions to the Majors or Concentration Comparative Literature and Society Major Medical Humanities Major Concentration in Comparative Literature and Society Departmental Honors Catherine Medalia Johannet Memorial Prize in Comparative Literature & Society Senior Thesis Guidelines Graduate About the Graduate Certificate Graduate Admissions Art, Architecture, and Social Sciences Track Language and Literature Track M.Phil. Requirements Dissertation Prospectus Review Dissertation Defense for ICLS Students Psychoanalytic Studies Program Initiatives Current Initiatives Past Initiatives Events Events (Upcoming) Events (Past) News Courses Select Page Dissertation Prospectus Review Please Note: This requirement is in addition to any prospectus submission requirements in your home department. With the approval of the ICLS Prospectus Committee, students may begin working on the dissertation after being awarded the M.Phil. degree. To obtain this approval, candidates must submit a dissertation prospectus for review, along with a supplementary statement and signed cover sheet: The detailed prospectus should be not more than 15 pages in length plus a brief bibliography of works to be examined and sources to be used. The prospectus should be submitted within six months after the M.Phil. qualifying examination, or at the time the prospectus is submitted to the home department. Students should consult their advisers and the ICLS Director or the ICLS Director of Graduate Studies before drawing up the prospectus. It should describe both the topic and the methods the student plans to use. Students should secure two readers to sign the prospectus cover sheet. One should be a first reader/sponsor from the list of departmentally approved PhD faculty sponsors. The second reader is selected in order to receive advice on the project and on drafts at all stages. ONE of the two readers (EITHER the first reader/sponsor OR the second reader) needs to be an ICLS affiliated faculty member. All proposals require an ICLS Dissertation Prospectus cover sheet and a brief supplementary statement. ICLS Dissertation Prospectus cover sheet: This document requires the signatures of the candidate’s first reader/sponsor and a second reader and should be turned in at the ICLS administrative office with a copy of their prospectus. Prospectuses must be submitted as a single PDF with all materials: a signed cover sheet, supplementary statement, then prospectus. Please use the naming convention “LAST NAME, First name Prospectus Submission FA21 or SP22.” You may obtain signatures electronically by having first reader/sponsor and second reader send you a signed copy of the cover sheet by email or simply a confirmation stating that they are aware that you are submitting your prospectus for review by ICLS by email, but this must still be part of the single pdf. The brief (1-2 page) Supplementary Statement must specify the elements of your research that you consider to be comparative. These may vary depending on the particular project: for instance, a comparative dissertation may involve work across multiple national contexts, work with primary materials in more than one language, or work drawing on different disciplinary methodologies. It may also be necessary to explain the implications of your comparative approach in relation to the norms of your home department, noting the way your project expands or revises received practice in your field. The prospectus and summary statement should provide evidence of your competence to carry out the comparative aspects of your project, whether that means training or a grasp of the relevant scholarship in a given discipline. We will accept your prospectus and accompanying materials once a semester. The next deadline is January 5, 2022 at 5PM. The Spring 2022 deadline is May 10, 2022. After all materials have been submitted, the ICLS Prospectus Committee will review your prospectus and decide whether or not to accept the proposal. Revisions may be requested or suggestions made to passing proposals. Proposals that are not deemed comparative or otherwise reflecting the work of the intellectual project of ICLS may result in the Certificate in Comparative Literature and Society being removed from the candidate’s degree program. For this reason, candidates are encouraged to participate in the intellectual community of ICLS which includes graduate student workshops, seminars, and conferences. *PLEASE NOTE: You must email all materials as a SINGLE PDF to ICLS at: icls@columbia.edu It is also strongly encouraged that students in the dissertation-writing phase present their work in the ICLS Graduate Student Colloquium. Please contact the ICLS Coordinator to schedule your presentation. DOWNLOAD MATERIALS Dissertation Prospectus Cover Sheet Facebook Twitter Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress The Heyman Center for the Humanities, Room B-101 74 Morningside Drive New York, NY, 10027 (212) 854-4541 (212) 854-3099 icls@columbia.edu facebook Twitter Youtube Click Here to subscribe to the ICLS Newsletter ©2019 Columbia University | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* View: Materials – Dissertation Prospectus Review - start */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ .material-title { padding-bottom: 20px; line-height: 1.2em; font-size: 20px; } /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* View: Materials – Dissertation Prospectus Review - end */ /* ----------------------------------------- */