About About ICLS Affiliated Departments Contact Us People Executive Committee Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Medical Humanities Advisory Board Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Visiting Scholars Alumni News Undergraduate Admissions to the Majors or Concentration Comparative Literature and Society Major Medical Humanities Major Concentration in Comparative Literature and Society Departmental Honors Catherine Medalia Johannet Memorial Prize in Comparative Literature & Society Senior Thesis Guidelines Graduate About the Graduate Certificate Graduate Admissions Art, Architecture, and Social Sciences Track Language and Literature Track M.Phil. Requirements Dissertation Prospectus Review Dissertation Defense for ICLS Students Psychoanalytic Studies Program Initiatives Current Initiatives Past Initiatives Events Events (Upcoming) Events (Past) News Courses Select Page ABOUT ICLS The Center for Comparative Literature and Society was founded in 1998, taking stock of the diminished role of area studies programs after the Fall of the Berlin Wall. It was time to notice that the area studies programs had interdisciplinarity built into them and generally practiced intensive language study. On the other hand, a humanities-based, generally Eurocentric comparative literature was offering theories of interpretation that would enhance the area studies approach. The goal was to open up the discipline of comparative literature to languages beyond the canonical European ones and to embed a rigorous training of reading in specific social and historical contexts. Vice-President David Cohen found this argument for combining comparative literature and the social sciences, inclusive of Area Studies, compelling and thus we began under the visionary directorship of Andreas Huyssen and Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak. We were fully committed to institutional development and robust faculty development through team-teaching, which produced an excitement in our student body. Since then, our undergraduate and graduate programs have thrived. In 2006, we became an institute. One of the Institute’s primary goals is to provide institutional support for cross-disciplinary and cross-regional comparative work, acknowledging the force of recent changes in the humanities, the social sciences, law, architecture, and the performing arts. In its capacity to embrace and bridge the totality of languages and traditions studied at Columbia, ICLS provides the only site for comparative scholarship across languages of more than one language group, including extensive engagement with non-European languages. Simultaneously, ICLS has emerged as the primary intersection between literary studies and social science studies at Columbia, not only across the Arts and Sciences, but also the School of Architecture, the School of Law, and the School of Medicine. The Institute is both a full-fledged curricular and degree-granting unit and a major research hub for Columbia University and its global programs. ICLS is a recognized leader nationwide in the newer developments of the comparative literature discipline: a truly global purview and cross-disciplinary work. Both in theory and in practice, in research and in teaching, ICLS brings the comparative methods of studying literature and society into the current globalized conditions of producing knowledge and making history. Also visit Synapsis, our online journal in the medical humanities, and our Global Language Justice blog! The Institute for Comparative Literature and Society’s Bylaws can be found here. Facebook Twitter Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress The Heyman Center for the Humanities, Room B-101 74 Morningside Drive New York, NY, 10027 (212) 854-4541 (212) 854-3099 icls@columbia.edu facebook Twitter Youtube Click Here to subscribe to the ICLS Newsletter ©2019 Columbia University | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination