About About ICLS Affiliated Departments Contact Us People Executive Committee Staff Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Medical Humanities Advisory Board Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Visiting Scholars Alumni News Undergraduate Admissions to the Majors or Concentration Comparative Literature and Society Major Medical Humanities Major Concentration in Comparative Literature and Society Departmental Honors Catherine Medalia Johannet Memorial Prize in Comparative Literature & Society Senior Thesis Guidelines Graduate About the Graduate Certificate Graduate Admissions Art, Architecture, and Social Sciences Track Language and Literature Track M.Phil. Requirements Dissertation Prospectus Review Dissertation Defense for ICLS Students Psychoanalytic Studies Program Initiatives Current Initiatives Past Initiatives Events Events (Upcoming) Events (Past) News Courses Select Page Global Language Justice Visit our BLOG for more information! Columbia University has received a grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for a two-year Sawyer Seminar on “Global Language Justice” at the Institute for Comparative Literature and Society. This new initiative takes language justice as the humanistic equivalent of environmental justice and responds with a sense of urgency to the simultaneity of the rapid dwindling of linguistic diversity and endangered biodiversity. The seminar will address a range of issues including: the social effects of English monolingualism, the relationship of language and technology, the problem of translation across disciplinary divides, and new possibilities for revivifying language communities at the interface of arts activism, legal redress, and digital technologies. The two-year grant will thus enable ICLS to develop a cutting-edge program of research and pedagogical innovation at the interface of science, humanities, and big data. The program will begin in Fall 2017 and continue through Spring 2019. It will be led by Lydia H. Liu (EALAC), Anupama Rao (History), Stathis Gourgouris (Classics), Brent H. Edwards (English), and Elizabeth A. Povinelli (Anthropology). The seminar series will create a unique and lasting legacy around the pressing issue of language justice by incubating new graduate and undergraduate courses and developing new research directions for the humanities and social sciences. The Mellon Foundation established Sawyer Seminars grants in 1994 to provide support for comparative research on the historical and cultural sources of contemporary developments. The grant will support a series of open lectures and workshops during the two academic years, a post-doctoral position, and two graduate student pre-doctoral fellowships. Collaborating on this project will be Peter Connor (Director, Center for Translation Studies, Barnard College) Susan Bernofsky (Director, Literary Translation, the School of the Arts) Geraldine Downey (Director, Center for Justice at Columbia University) Jesús Velasco (Chair, Department of Latin American and Iberian Cultures) Rita Charon (Director, Program in Narrative Medicine, Medical School) Bernard Harcourt (Center for Contemporary Critical Thought, Law School) Isabelle Zaugg (Postdoctoral Research Scholar in Global Language Justice, Columbia University) L. Maria Bo (Global Language Justice Graduate Fellow, PhD Candidate in English/ICLS, Columbia University) Chloe Estep (Global Language Justice Graduate Fellow, PhD Candidate in EALAC/ICLS, Columbia University) Atefeh Akbari Shahmirzadi (Global Language Justice Graduate Fellow, PhD Candidate in English/ICLS, Columbia University) Alexandra Méndez (Global Language Justice Graduate Fellow, PhD Candidate in LAIC/ICLS, Columbia University) Charlotte Anne Silverman (Global Language Justice Graduate Fellow, PhD Candidate in Anthropology/ICLS, Columbia University) Related Events Roses from the Concrete: Students Imagine and Construct Global Language Justice in the Digital Sphere Contextual Analysis of Social Media Informing Artificial Intelligence with William R. Frey Language Technology for the World’s Languages Global Language Justice in Action: Theory, Practice, and Performance Faculty Seminar on Global Language Justice by Deborah W. Anderson Faculty Seminar on Global Language Justice with Suzanne Romaine Global Justice for Indigenous Languages: A Symposium Global Language Justice & Digital Sphere Global Language Justice Faculty and Student Seminar with Mary Louise Pratt Global Language Justice Faculty and Student Seminar with Moira Inghilleri Global Language Justice Faculty and Student Seminar with Moria Paz Global Language Justice in Action: Theory, Practice, and Performance Global Language Justice: An Interdisciplinary Conference on the Long-Term Planetary Impact of the Life and Death of Languages Poetry as Pluriverse: Thinking Global Language Justice Global Language Justice & Digital Sphere Global Language Justice: An Interdisciplinary Workshop Facebook Twitter Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress The Heyman Center for the Humanities, Room B-101 74 Morningside Drive New York, NY, 10027 (212) 854-4541 (212) 854-3099 icls@columbia.edu facebook Twitter Youtube Click Here to subscribe to the ICLS Newsletter ©2019 Columbia University | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* Content Template: Initiatives Single Posts Template - start */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* Content Template: Initiatives Single Posts Template - end */ /* ----------------------------------------- */