Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Apply Now Alumni Sign-in Student Sign-in International and Development Economics Welcome The Program Students and their Careers Core Courses Electives The Director Work experience opportunities IDE-EGC Research Assistantship Program Joint Programs Summer School Prospective Students Application Procedure Application Status Living at Yale FAQ EGC-IDE African Student Scholarship Current Students Alumni Directory Calendar Events Research to Policy Seminar Series A Conversation with former World Bank Chief Economist, Yale Professor Penny Goldberg Combinatorial Problems in Economics World Bank Career Panel What We Can Learn from the History of Development? Research to Policy: Tony Smith The U.S. Labor Market during the Pandemic Spring Alumni Event FAQ Forum Useful Documents Useful Links Alumni Alumni Directory Request Alumni Password Recruiters Contact Us Home The global economic environment has become increasingly complex and poses a myriad of new challenges for policy and data analysts and professionals in all fields. The ability to respond to rapid changes in this environment requires that leaders have a detailed understanding of the economic forces that affect economic outcomes. Careful economic policy analysis requires practitioners who can make use of the most current theoretical academic literature, as well as do empirical and econometric analysis using the latest approaches and methods. The IDE program at Yale University, housed within the Economic Growth Center and the Department of Economics, is a one-year Masters program intended to help students build the necessary toolkit for embracing such obstacles in their future careers, whether as career practitioners and economic analysts, or to follow a path through the policy analysis field on their way to subsequent Ph.D work. This site is to inform prospective students of the program, the university and life in New Haven. We encourage prospective students to also visit the website of the Yale Graduate School for more information on the application procedure, policies, living in New Haven and other Yale facilities that are all open to IDE Students. Additionally, this site will provide current students with access to all information they need on a daily basis and the rich alumni network. In the last 65 years, graduates have followed careers in all sectors of work. We encourage current students to reach out to alumni and benefit from their advice. News Spring Alumni Event (April 7 - 9, 2021) March 29, 2021 The Yale Economic Growth Center and IDE Masters Program will host a multi-day forum for students, affiliates, and alumni of IDE and Yale Economics to... A Conversation with former World Bank Chief Economist March 17, 2021 IDE Students and Alumni are welcome to join a conversation with former World Bank Chief Economist, Yale Professor Penny Goldberg: Led by IDE ‘08 Alum... COVID-19 Update September 8, 2020 To answer the many questions we get about the new policies of the Yale Graduate School for Fall 2020 we direct you directly to the Yale GSAS website... IDE and COVID-19 March 27, 2020 IDE courses have, in accordance with Yale’s policy, moved to online-only classes. It is something new for all of us but we are happy to see... IDE Alumni Bryan McCann worked on UN cited study on Funding for Climate Change Disaster Relief December 5, 2019 The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) recently released its annual Global Humanitarian Overview, the world’s... More news... Applications Closed Applications for Fall 2022 admissions are now CLOSED Applications for entry in Fall 2023 will open in August 2022 Visit the GSAS Application site to apply now! Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Graduate School · Economics Department · Photos by Lim Yong Long and Viola Wong and website by Fabian L Schrey (all IDE ‘12)