Inclusive Digital Education and Analytics About People Projects Publications Partners Media The IDEA Lab at Clemson University The IDEA (Inclusive Digital Education and Analytics) Lab is located at Clemson University in the College of Education. Our research is focused on designing socially just and inclusive digital learning environments in engineering, computer science, and computational statistics. We also develop and implement innovative and inclusive analytics approaches to make sense of student learning. Values and Commitments The IDEA lab stands in solidarity with our Black, Brown, Latinx, AAPI, and Indigenous brothers and sisters who face brutality, violence, and inequities in their communities. Our work in education takes action to challenge historical and current systemic inequities and oppresive systems. We work with and for our children to conduct educational research that benefits them and their communities. We also acknowledge that the main campus of Clemson University occupies the traditional and ancestral land of the Cherokee People. This is also land on which people enslaved by the Pickens, Clemson, and Calhoun families lived and worked, and that was transformed into the campus of Clemson University through convict labor. We make this acknowledgement to remember the histories of violence, to recognize Indigenous and Black claims to life and land, and to recenter those claims as we commit to better ways of caring for each other and for this land. Decolonize Clemson. IDEA Lab Members Golnaz Arastoopour Irgens Director of the IDEA Lab Publications | CV | Google Scholar Dr. Arastoopour Irgens is Assistant Professor of Learning Sciences, Director of the IDEA Lab at Clemson University, and Vice President of the International Society for Quantitative Ethnography. She is a former middle school computer science and high school mathematics teacher. In her design-based research, she engages in participatory methods that actively involve teachers, students, and community partners working together to co-design digital learning environments that serve their communities. In her learning analytics work, she uses quantitative ethnography, computational linguistics, and discourse networks to make sense of how learners engage with digital technologies. She earned her Ph.D. and M.S. in Learning Sciences from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, M.A. in Mathematics Education from Columbia University, and B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Data science is her hobby. Ibrahim Oluwajoba Adisa Graduate Student Researcher 'Joba is a doctoral student in the Learning Sciences program with a focus on digital learning environment design. He has a background in instructional and learning experience design and earned his M.Ed. in Educational Technology from the University of Ibadan, Nigeria and B.Tech. in Physics Education from Federal University of Technology Minna, NG. Prior to graduate school, 'Joba worked as a digital learning specialist at Tek-Experts and taught both graduate and undergraduate students for 2 years at the University of Ibadan, Nigeria. His research interest include fostering socio-emotional connections, engagement, participation, and immersion in digital learning environments. He enjoys developing interactive courses and programming with Python. Cinamon Bailey Graduate Student Researcher Cinamon is a doctoral student in the Learning Sciences' program with an emphasis on andragogical learning, specifically adult language learning. Her interests and research goals center on how digital technologies/digital learning can contribute to adult English Language Learning (ELL). Prior to starting her doctoral studies, Cinamon received a B.S in Psychology at the College of Charleston (1997), a Masters in Social Work at the University of SC (1999), and a Masters in Education in Language at the College of Charleston (2019). Her career has involved social work and executive management in the healthcare setting as well as research in the areas of adaptive expertise and computational thinking in educational settings. Tolulope Famaye Graduate Student Researcher Tolu is a doctoral student in the Learning Sciences program with research interests in Instructional Design for physical and virtual learning environments, designing E-learning courses, Video based instructions and Technology integration for higher cognitive processes. Tolu worked actively as a research assistant in the University of Ibadan, in various internationally funded projects. Some of these projects include e-courseware development, Mobile learning and content development using different authoring tools. Prior to graduate school, she gained project management and operational experience handling Educational Technology centred projects for various Open and Distance Learning institutions in some Federal and Private Universities in Nigeria. Alison Fecher Graduate Student Researcher Alison is a doctoral student in the Educational Leadership program with a focus on higher education. Her research centers on digital games as a third space in higher education and how it supports student learning and development both in and out of the classroom. Prior to starting her doctoral studies, Alison earned a BA in Latin and Classical Cultures (2009) and an MA in Linguistics and TESOL (2012) at the Ball State University and an MEd in Counselor Education: Student Affairs (2018) from Clemson. She has played, loved, and learned from video games since receiving a Sega Genesis for Christmas in 1992. Caitlin Lancaster Graduate Student Researcher Caitlin is a doctoral student in the Human-Centered Computing program studying human-AI teaming with a special focus on training and critical education, particularly for bias mitigation. Before joining the program, she received her M.A. in Communication, Technology, and Society from Clemson, during which she taught public speaking and introduction to communication courses. Outside of academia, Caitlin has professional experience in social media and digital marketing, public relations, and digital media production. Katherine Mulholland Graduate Student Researcher Katherine is a doctoral student in the Learning Sciences program with an emphasis on andragogical learning, specifically learning through science outreach. Her interests and research goals center on how outreach participation can contribute to undergraduate student's science communication efficacy in public and K-12 settings. Prior to starting her doctoral studies, Katherine received a B.S. in Genetics from Clemson University. After receiving her bachelor's degree, Katherine joined the Clemson University Science Outreach Center team as a STEM Education Specialist. Hazel Vega Quesada Graduate Student Researcher Hazel is a doctoral student in the learning sciences program with an emphasis on critical pedagogy and digital technologies in teacher learning. Her research is situated in the context of teacher education programs in second or foreign language teaching. She is particularly interested in pre-service teachers’ situated identities and language learning histories. Prior to starting her doctoral studies, Hazel worked with in-service and pre-service teachers and taught English as a foreign language for over 15 years in Costa Rica. Ian Thompson Undergraduate Student Researcher Ian is an undergraduate student in the College of Education majoring in elementary education. He has an interest in both computer science and education. Since middle school, Ian has published multiple mobile applications and worked on various closed and open-source software projects. This past year, Ian worked with the Greenville County School District and currently volunteers with an organization at McCants Middle School in Anderson, SC. Alumni and Former Lab Members Projects Modeling and Measuring Critical Data Literacies Inclusive Computational Education & Design (ICED) Critical Machine Learning Educational Program Data Detectives: Finding Patterns in Data Selected Publications 2022 Arastoopour Irgens, G. (2022). "Using Knowledgeable Agents of the Digital and data feminism to uncover social identities in the #blackgirlmagic Twitter community." Learning, Media and Technology. 47(1). 79 - 94. Thompson, J. & Arastoopour Irgens, G. (2022). "Data Detectives: A Data Science Program for Middle Grade Learners." Journal of Statistics and Data Science Education. 2021 Buckingham Shum, S., Arastoopour Irgens, G., Moots, H., Phillips, M., Shah, M., Vega, H., & Wooldridge, A. (2021). "Participatory Quantitative Ethnography" In Wasson, B. & Zörgő, S. (Eds.), Third International Conference on Quantitative Ethnography, ICQE 2021. Malibu, CA, USA. November 6 - 11, 2021. Vega, H. & Arastoopour Irgens, G. (2021). "Constructing Interpretations with Participants through Epistemic Network Analysis: Towards Participatory Approaches in Quantitative Ethnography" In Wasson, B. & Zörgő, S. (Eds.), Third International Conference on Quantitative Ethnography, ICQE 2021. Malibu, CA, USA. November 6 - 11, 2021. Adisa, I.O & Arastoopour Irgens, G. (2021). "Whose Report? The Biases of Nigerian #EndSARS Protest Media Coverage" In Wasson, B. & Zörgő, S. (Eds.), Third International Conference on Quantitative Ethnography, ICQE 2021. Malibu, CA, USA. November 6 - 11, 2021. Lancaster, C. (2021). "Is This the Right (or Left) Approach to the COVID-19 Pandemic?" In Wasson, B. & Zörgő, S. (Eds.), Third International Conference on Quantitative Ethnography, ICQE 2021. Malibu, CA, USA. November 6 - 11, 2021. Bailey, C. S., Adisa, I., Vega, H., & Arastoopour Irgens, G. (2021, May). "Cognitive, Affective, and Politicized Trust in a Community Youth Program: A Participatory Design Research Project." Poster presented at the 2021 RESPECT Virtual Conference. Vega, H. & Arastoopour Irgens G. (2021). "Examining Teacher Reflection in a Multimodal Composition about Identity." International Society of the Learning Sciences Annual Meeting. Bochum, Germany, June 7-11. Vega, H., Arastoopour Irgens G., & Bailey C. (2021). "Negotiating Tensions: A Study of Pre-Service English as Foreign Language Teachers’ Sense of Identity within their Community of Practice." In A.R. Ruis and S.B. Lee (Eds.), Second International Conference, ICQE 2020, (pp. 277 - 291). Malibu, CA, USA, February 1-3, 2021. Kaliisa, R., Misiejuk, K., Arastoopour Irgens, G., & Misfeldt M. (2021). "Scoping the Emerging Field of Quantitative Ethnography: Opportunities, Challenges and Future Directions." In A.R. Ruis and S.B. Lee (Eds.), Second International Conference, ICQE 2020, (pp. 3 - 17). Malibu, CA, USA, February 1-3, 2021. 2020 Arastoopour Irgens, G., Knight, S., & Wise, A. (2020). Data Literacies and Social Justice: Exploring Critical Data Literacies through Sociocultural Perspectives. In M. Gresalfi and I.S. Horn (Eds.), The Interdisciplinarity of the Learning Sciences, 14th International Conference of the Learning Sciences (ICLS) 2020, Volume 1. (pp. 406 - 413). Nashville, Tennessee: International Society of the Learning Sciences. Arastoopour Irgens G. & Thompson, J. (2020). “Would You Rather Have it be Accurate or Diverse?” How Male Middle-School Students Make Sense of Algorithm Bias and Racial/Gender Discrimination. In M. Gresalfi and I.S. Horn (Eds.), The Interdisciplinarity of the Learning Sciences, 14th International Conference of the Learning Sciences (ICLS) 2020, Volume 2. (pp. 751 - 752). Nashville, Tennessee: International Society of the Learning Sciences. Vega, H. & Arastoopour Irgens, G. (2020). Identity Negotiation of Pre-service Teachers of English as a Foreign Language. In M. Gresalfi and I.S. Horn (Eds.), The Interdisciplinarity of the Learning Sciences, 14th International Conference of the Learning Sciences (ICLS) 2020, Volume 4. (pp. 1990 - 1997). Nashville, Tennessee: International Society of the Learning Sciences. 2019 Arastoopour Irgens, G. (2019). Facilitating a Sense of Belonging for Women of Color in Engineering: The Case for Virtual Internships. In Roscoe, R.D., Chiou, E.K., & Wooldridge, A.R. (Eds.), Advancing Diversity, Inclusion, and Social Justice through Human Systems Engineering. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press. Community and Research Partners The YMCA of Greenville Youth and Family Services CLEaR Lab Clemson University College of Education Clemson University Epistemic Analytics Research Group University of Wisconsin-Madison Media Golnaz Arastoopour Irgens, Keynote Speaker at ICQE 2019 Golnaz Arastoopour Irgens, ISQE Webinar Series 2020 Tweets by ClemsonIDEALab Acknowledgements This work is funded in part by the National Science Foundation (ECR-2024965) and the Office of the Associate Dean for Research in the College of Education at Clemson University. The opinions, findings, and conclusions do not reflect the views of the funding agencies, cooperating institutions, or other individuals. The IDEA Lab Address 207 Old Main • Clemson, SC 29634 • USA Email idealab@clemson.edu