Please enable JavaScript to use mobile navigation menu. view sitemap » About Inside the Institute How To Find Us Staff Reid Hall Faculty Advisory Board Annual Reports Fellows Current Fellows All Fellows SNFPHI Visitors News Events Current Events Past Events Cahiers Apply Applying for a Fellowship Faculty Visitors Graduate Workshops Ukraine Residencies Program About Inside the Institute How To Find Us Staff Reid Hall Faculty Advisory Board Annual Reports Fellows Current Fellows All Fellows SNFPHI Visitors News Events Current Events Past Events Cahiers Apply Applying for a Fellowship Faculty Visitors Graduate Workshops Ukraine Residencies Program Search Login Applying for a Fellowship Faculty Visitors Graduate Workshops Ukraine Residencies Program Faculty Visitors Columbia University faculty and researchers in long-term posts are encouraged to apply to visit the Institute for one to three weeks. Limited funding is available to support visiting faculty. In addition to those working in the natural and applied sciences, we welcome visitors from the professional schools, social sciences, and other parts of the university. The funding supports travel and housing, and includes office space at the Institute and administrative support. For 2022-23, please apply by sending a brief CV and a one-page description of the purpose of your visit by June 25, 2022 to Marie d'Origny. Eligible purposes include: working with Institute Fellows or other colleagues in Paris; organizing workshops, talks, or conferences and research. This scheme is offered in partnership with the Alliance program and applicants whose work involves them in working in Paris with Alliance partners should specify this in their application. All visits are subject to university approval. For more details, please contact Associate Director, Marie d'Origny. Login Follow Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Contact +33 1 44 10 24 43 ideasimagination@columbia.edu Join our mailing list Institute for Ideas and Imagination Reid Hall 4 rue de Chevreuse 75006 Paris Back to top Columbia Institute for Ideas and Imagination © 2022 Columbia University | Cookie & Privacy Policy