Please enable JavaScript to use mobile navigation menu. view sitemap » About Inside the Institute How To Find Us Staff Reid Hall Faculty Advisory Board Annual Reports Fellows Current Fellows All Fellows SNFPHI Visitors News Events Current Events Past Events Cahiers Apply Applying for a Fellowship Faculty Visitors Graduate Workshops Ukraine Residencies Program About Inside the Institute How To Find Us Staff Reid Hall Faculty Advisory Board Annual Reports Fellows Current Fellows All Fellows SNFPHI Visitors News Events Current Events Past Events Cahiers Apply Applying for a Fellowship Faculty Visitors Graduate Workshops Ukraine Residencies Program Search Login Applying for a Fellowship Faculty Visitors Graduate Workshops Ukraine Residencies Program Applying for a Fellowship Bringing together creative artists of all kinds with scholars from across the humanities and sciences, the purpose of the Institute is to question the established ways in which knowledge is defined, produced, and taught. The Fellowship stipend is $37,500 per term, or $75,000 for a full academic year (September through May). Fellows also have their own office at the Institute in Paris, administrative and research support and access to Columbia’s libraries and various research facilities in Paris and in Europe. The 2022-2023 application portal is now closed. Please join our mailing list to stay informed of the next application cycle. Eligibility Applicants may apply who fall under one of two categories. Please indicate under which category you are applying: Creative artists of all kinds (including visual artists, film-makers, writers, composers, poets, thinkers and others), from anywhere in the world excluding the USA. Only in exceptional circumstances do we consider non-Columbia scholars residing outside the United States, and long-term US residents are not eligible to apply. Creative writers (novelists, poets, playwrights, journalists, essayists) must demonstrate a record of publication; visual artists, musicians, and performers must have a significant body of work that has been exhibited or performed in public. Faculty and recent PhDs from Columbia University (including Barnard College and Teachers' College). Applicants may work in any area of the University, including the creative arts, so long as their work is compatible with the goals and aims of the Institute. Recent Columbia PhDs must have defended their dissertation between September 2019 and June 2021. In order to demonstrate their eligibility, Columbia faculty should indicate their school and departmental affiliation. They should also let their chair of department or Dean know of their intention to apply. Please note that recent Columbia PhDs who have a tenure-track position at another university are not eligible to apply. Adjunct faculty are eligible if their term of appointment extends beyond the fellowship year. Preference may be given to applicants proposing to stay for the full year. Application materials include: Personal information (address, citizenship, education, affiliation) CV A project description (1500 words) A sample of your work Three letters of recommendation Ask a question about applying Detail of Tarrafal series by João Pina Login Follow Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Contact +33 1 44 10 24 43 ideasimagination@columbia.edu Join our mailing list Institute for Ideas and Imagination Reid Hall 4 rue de Chevreuse 75006 Paris Back to top Columbia Institute for Ideas and Imagination © 2022 Columbia University | Cookie & Privacy Policy