Please enable JavaScript to use mobile navigation menu. view sitemap » About Inside the Institute How To Find Us Staff Reid Hall Faculty Advisory Board Annual Reports Fellows Current Fellows All Fellows SNFPHI Visitors News Events Current Events Past Events Cahiers Apply Applying for a Fellowship Faculty Visitors Graduate Workshops Ukraine Residencies Program About Inside the Institute How To Find Us Staff Reid Hall Faculty Advisory Board Annual Reports Fellows Current Fellows All Fellows SNFPHI Visitors News Events Current Events Past Events Cahiers Apply Applying for a Fellowship Faculty Visitors Graduate Workshops Ukraine Residencies Program Search Login Ursula Kwong-Brown 2022 Visitor Ursula Kwong-Brown is an LA-based composer and arts technologist who grew up in New York City and started writing music at the age of eight. Described as “atmospheric and accomplished” by The New York Times, her work has been performed in New York City at Carnegie Hall, the Miller Theatre, and le Poisson Rouge, at the Victoria & Albert Museum and the National Portrait Gallery in London, and by festivals and ensembles across the country and around the world. In collaboration with her partner Danny Erdberg, a Broadway sound designer, she has begun composing for film, theater and multimedia. Most recently she collaborated on a video with the Japanese visual artist Akiko Nakayama and the San Francisco-based ensemble Ninth Planet Music, of which she was a founding member. With mentorship from Dr. Darcy Kelley and support from the Sloan Foundation and Columbia University’s Presidential Scholars in Society and Neuroscience Program, Ursula has been exploring the intersection of neural feedback and electronic music. She has worked with the electromyography (EMG) wristband developed by CTRL-Labs, as well as an electroencephalography (EEG) headband developed by Muse/ InteraXon, mapping the output of these devices to music generation using a custom-built Max/MSP interface that she developed using tools from UC Berkeley’s Center for New Music and Audio Technologies. Ursula received her B.A. in Music and Biology from Columbia University in 2010, and her Ph.D. in Music Composition and New Media from UC Berkeley in 2018. Back Login Follow Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Contact +33 1 44 10 24 43 ideasimagination@columbia.edu Join our mailing list Institute for Ideas and Imagination Reid Hall 4 rue de Chevreuse 75006 Paris Back to top Columbia Institute for Ideas and Imagination © 2022 Columbia University | Cookie & Privacy Policy