Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subdata GT Research IDEaS Home About Overview Executive Director Message Join IDEaS Join IDEaS Student List Contact Us IDEaS Research Research Overview Centers Funding Awards People Directory Leadership Faculty Staff Education Industry Partners News and Events Recent News and Upcoming Events AI Seminar Series Open Search Search Search Institute for Data Engineering and Science HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home Institute for Data Engineering and Science Research Overview IDEAS: The new home of big data research and solutions Recognizing the importance of big data and high-performance computing, Georgia Tech led the development of the new Coda complex, a 21-story building with an 80,000 square foot data center. IDEaS is an anchor tenant of the new building, built in Georgia Tech's Technology Square in Midtown Atlanta. Coda's design facilitates collaboration between researchers in various disciplines, which accelerates the transition of the computing industry from its computer-centric roots to its data-centric future. This endeavor entails the restructuring of the modern computing ecosystem centered on the secure and timely acquisition, distillation, storage, modeling, and analysis of data in driving decisions in all sectors of the economy. Coda Website Research Overview Big Data Data Science is an interdisciplinary field that is concerned with systems, storage, software, algorithms, and applications for extracting knowledge or insights from data. Data-driven research is also commonplace in many fields of sciences and engineering, where direct observations (astronomy), instrumentation (sensors, DNA sequencers, electron microscopes), or simulations, (molecular dynamics trajectories), generate datasets that must be analyzed with domain-specific knowledge. Recently, our ability to collect and store massive datasets that are typically characterized by high volume, velocity, or variety, and inadequacy of current techniques to handle such large data sizes, led to the coining of the term “Big Data.” IDEAS Research Areas Machine Learning Underpins the transformation of data to knowledge to actionable insights. Research in unstructured and dynamic data, deep learning, data mining, and interactive machine learning advances foundations and big data applications in many domains. High Performance Computing Critical technology for big data analysis. High performance systems, middleware, algorithms, applications, software, and frameworks support data-driven computing at all levels. Algorithms and Optimization Algorithms, optimization, and statistics are laying the foundations for large-scale data analysis. Streaming and sublinear algorithms, sampling and sketching techniques, high-dimensional analysis are enabling big data analytics. Health and Life Sciences Big data sets abound in genomics, systems biology, and proteomics. Advances in electronic medical records, computational phenotyping, personalized genomics, and precision medicine are driving predictive, preventive, and personalized healthcare. Materials and Manufacturing Large-scale data sets providing a microscopic view of materials, and scalable modeling and simulation technologies, are paving the way for accelerated development of new materials. Energy Infrastructure Advances in sensors and the Internet of Things enable energy infrastructure monitoring. Data analytics brings unparalleled efficiencies to energy production, transmission, distribution, and utilization. Smart Cities Achieving efficient use of resources and services, safety, affordability, and a higher quality of life using data-based research. Internet of Things research uses big data and analytics from massive streams of real-time data and applies it to smart city initiatives. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN