retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Search Search About About UT CID Board of Advisors Strategic Partners Research Publications Research Projects Research Team Education MS Information Security and Privacy Identity Leadership Certificate Program 1-Day Certificate Programs Customizable Courses News UT CID in the News Home Page Identity Ecosystem The Identity Ecosystem analyzes and characterizes the relationship between identity attributes. Learn More Research Projects The security and privacy of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) affect various sectors of our society in numerous ways. Learn how the Center addresses these unique challenges. Learn More Publications Explore UT CID research publications on a wide range of identity, information security and privacy topics from Center projects. Click below to browse the entire library of publications. Browse Publications Research Team A multidisciplinary team of Researchers from across the UT Austin campus collaborate on groundbreaking, interdisciplinary research in information security, identity and privacy. Meet the Faculty What Happens Here Changes the World The University of Texas at Austin established the Center for Identity to serve as a center of excellence for identity management, privacy, and security. The Center research and education programs are delivering new and innovative advances to anticipate and mitigate current and future identity threats, while offering leadership, vision, and solutions for now and well into the future. Graduate Degree and Certificate Programs MS Information Security and Privacy The Master of Science in Information Security and Privacy (ISP) is the Nation’s premiere professional degree program for those seeking employment or career advancement in the dynamic field of information security and privacy. The Center for Identity joined with the top-ranked University of Texas School of Information to offer this unique interdisciplinary program bringing together law, public policy, communications, technology and the social sciences. The MS ISP delivers a 360-degree perspective of information security and privacy not available through other programs in cybersecurity and information assurance. Learn More Identity Leadership Certificate Program The Identity Leadership certificate program offered by the Center for Identity at The University of Texas gives you the knowledge and skills to lead the complex business of identity – from assets, liabilities, planning, operations and workforce. Combining academic excellence with real-world case-studies and relevance, this 3-day program will provide you with the tools, insights, and skills to help advance your career and make an immediate impact on your organization. You will have the chance to meet, learn from, and work with other experienced professionals from a wide range of industries while learning a truly interdisciplinary approach to identity. Learn More Customizable Courses The UT Center for Identity offers customized certificate programs on a wide range of topics, including a customized version of our 3-day Identity Leadership Certificate program. Other customization options include topics and content, use cases and examples, location, and timing and participants. The Center for Identity will work collaboratively with your organization to create a topic-based program tailored to your organization’s needs, to get your team the training it needs. All participants of customized short courses will receive a completion certificate and continuing education credit hours. Learn More FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter LinkedinFind us on Linkedin Mailing Address: 201 East 24th Street Mail Code C4300 Austin, Texas 78712 Email: contact@identity.utexas.edu Phone: 512-588-3511 UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022