Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Identity Guide Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Brand Brand Statement Voice and Tone Messaging Best Practices Visual Identity Overview Stanford Logos Design Elements Color Typography Photography Graphic Elements Iconography Using the brand Digital Web Design Mobile Apps Social Media Video Email Signatures Templates Print Place an order Business Cards Stationery Swag Templates Resources Policies & Guidelines Support Community Showcase Search this site Submit Search Identity guidelines & best practices that inspire and align Stanford communications Colors Typography Stanford Logos Web Design Templates This Identity Guide provides design and brand tools for Stanford communicators. We hope you will find inspiration and resources to help you in your work. Please note that downloads are available only to users with a SUNet login. Download Identity Guide (PDF) I would like to … order business cards Find out how to order business cards and stationery from one of our approved vendors. Learn more about ordering business cards learn about Stanford’s primary brand elements Information about our logos, color palette and typography. Learn more about Stanford’s primary brand elements align my website with Stanford's brand Find out what the required and optional elements are to make your websites brand compliant. Learn more about optimizing impact by bringing your Stanford websites on brand develop a Stanford mobile app Download pre-approved templates for iOS and Android for Stanford app development. Learn more about developing a Stanford mobile app get swag produced See how you can create merchandise or physical products (for sale or otherwise) using Stanford’s name or logos. Learn more about producing swag generate a department logo package Use our logo generator to create a file package of your department logo. Learn more about generating department logo package Other helpful resources University Communications University Communications is the central resource for communications strategies that advance and protect the reputation of Stanford University. Learn more about University Communications Stanford Web Services Web Services provides units a full range of website planning, design, development, and maintenance support at below-market rates. Learn more about Stanford Web Services Decanter Stanford’s web design style guide and front-end framework includes a browsable collection of web elements and design patterns. Learn more about Decanter Stanford Identity Guide About the Identity Guide This identity guide was informed by many conversations, research, and workshops across campus. It’s intended to inspire and align our efforts as we communicate about the work and impact of Stanford. The creative elements offered here are not mandates, but tools to aid strong, cohesive communications across the university. Stanford brand and identity is a part of the Stanford Office of University Communications. To provide feedback about this website, contact: DesignIdentity@stanford.edu Questions? For questions about Stanford’s visual brand identity: DesignIdentity@stanford.edu For third-party requests or questions about use of Stanford’s name or brand: Trademark_Use@stanford.edu For questions about creating branded products: Trademark_Licensing@Stanford.edu If you have other questions, submit a ServiceNow ticket: Submit a ServiceNow ticket Stanford Social Channels Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to top