Toggle navigation University Branding and Identity Guidelines Brand Overview University Logo Unit/Department Logos Other Marks Color Palette Typography Shapes and Patterns Textures Other Elements Brand Examples Content Overview Photography Videography Websites Social Media Writing Style Editorial Style Resources Overview Downloads Communications Toolkits Stationery Creative Services Web Services Trademarks and Licensing Student Organizations Contact University Branding and Identity Guidelines As the nation’s first public university and one of the world’s leading research institutions, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has a highly visible identity that continually evolves. We developed the guidelines on this site to give the Carolina community a recognizable and consistent visual style and voice, while allowing individual units within our University to tell their own unique stories. DOWNLOAD PDF Key Terms Brand The brand of an organization—as represented by specific images and words intended to signify implicit values, ideas and personality—represents a particular experience or impression. Brand Message A brand message is the primary value proposition of an organization’s services or products. The message communicates what the brand is and what separates it from competitors. Editorial Style Editorial style refers to a set of guidelines used by writers and editors to ensure that language is clear, consistent and effective. Logo A logo is a symbol or other design that represents an organization or brand. It is an essential part of any identity package. Sub-brand A sub-brand is a unique but complementary set of visual identity assets, such as a logo or color palette, that represents a distinct group that exists as part of a larger entity. Writing Style Writing style refers to a writer’s unique voice or application of language to convey a specific experience, tone or mood. University Branding and Identity Guidelines Full Guidelines Brand University Logo Unit/Department Logos Other Marks Color Palette Typography Shapes and Patterns Textures Other Elements Brand Examples Content Photography Videography Websites Social Media Writing Style Editorial Style Resources Downloads Communications Toolkits Stationery Creative Services Web Services Trademarks and Licensing Student Organizations Contact © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.