Skip to main content College of Humanities and Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Studies Menu Close About Us Contact Us People News Majors and Minors Africana Studies Arts Studies International Studies Science, Technology and Society Self-Design Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies Jewish Studies Minor Middle East Studies Minor Native American Studies Minor Students Prospective Students Current Students Add or Change Majors and Minors Scholarships Advising What Can I Do With My Degree? Dual Degrees Benjamin Franklin Scholars Alexander Hamilton Scholars Thomas Jefferson Scholars Graduate Programs Liberal Studies (MALS) Film Studies Communication, Rhetoric and Digital Media (CRDM) Digital Humanities Giving About Us About Us Contact Us People News Majors and Minors Majors and Minors Africana Studies Arts Studies International Studies Science, Technology and Society Self-Design Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies Jewish Studies Minor Middle East Studies Minor Native American Studies Minor Students Students Prospective Students Current Students Add or Change Majors and Minors Scholarships Advising What Can I Do With My Degree? Dual Degrees Dual Degrees Benjamin Franklin Scholars Alexander Hamilton Scholars Thomas Jefferson Scholars Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Liberal Studies (MALS) Film Studies Communication, Rhetoric and Digital Media (CRDM) Digital Humanities Giving Giving Find Your Fit Our degree programs challenge students to tackle complex issues, explore diverse cultures and develop desirable skills. Majors and minors Dual degrees Join our Community Undergraduate Admissions Start your application with the NC State admissions office. Apply now Add or Change Your Major or Minor Are you interested in adding a second major or changing your degree to one of our concentrations? We can help. How to start the process About Us Housed in the College of Humanities and Social Sciences, Interdisciplinary Studies sponsors a robust selection of majors, minors, dual degrees and graduate programs. More about us Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance? We look forward to hearing from you. Giving Your support opens doors to life-changing experiences and empowers our students. career paths What can I do with my degree? The possibilities are endless. See how our graduates apply their unique (and valuable) skillsets in a variety of fields and industries. There are so many amazing opportunities here. Mehr Sher International Studies ’15 Interdisciplinary Studies Home 1911 Building - Suite 106 Campus Box 7107 Raleigh, NC 27695-7107 919.515.6964 Interdisciplinary Studies Home Contact Us Events Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.