Skip to main content Institute for Emerging Issues Menu Close About Connect Our Team National Advisory Board Emerging Issues Forums Programs BAND-NC KidsReadyNC PILOT 21 Project Resilience Rural Faith Communities as Anchor Institutions Past Programs Media Give Today About About Connect Our Team National Advisory Board Emerging Issues Forums Emerging Issues Forums Programs Programs BAND-NC KidsReadyNC PILOT 21 Project Resilience Rural Faith Communities as Anchor Institutions Past Programs Media Media Give Today The Institute for Emerging Issues Connecting North Carolina to ideas and North Carolinians to each other. IEI News Read More Institute for Emerging Issues receives $2M grant from The Duke Endowment for rural faith communities program IEI has received a $2M grant from The Duke Endowment to continue its successful Faith and Community Initiative for another five years. Welcome to Practitioner-in-Residence Philip Cooper Get to know Change Agent Philip Cooper through this Q&A! Southwestern Commission leads WNC in digital inclusion planning process The Southwestern Commission held two events May 16-17 to kick off the digital inclusion planning process for seven Western North Carolina counties and the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians. Save the Date 2023 Emerging Issues Forum “Talent First Economics” February 13, 2023 Learn more Sign up for IEI updates Get the latest news from IEI in your inbox. Connect with IEI Reach out, call, visit. We want to hear from you! Bringing North Carolina together Through our programming and issue focused initiatives, we connect people to resources and resources to the people who need them. View IEI programs Community STories Read More Community Spotlight: Isothermal Community College improves lives in Rutherford and Polk counties Isothermal Community College (ICC) doesn’t stop at providing nearly free higher education for students in western North Carolina. Its mission is to improve lives through learning. Community Spotlight: Communities Supporting Schools of Wayne County connects the dots for student success Communities Supporting Schools of Wayne County understands that to increase postsecondary educational attainment, you have to start working with students as early as elementary school. Community Spotlight: Wilson Education Partnership builds bridges between students, teachers, and community Wilson Education Partnership looks for programs and initiatives that will most benefit the students, teachers, and business community in Wilson, NC. From the Director Each month, IEI’s Director reflects on what’s happening at the Institute. Read more Giving to IEI With your investment, we will continue to connect, think and do to ensure the economic prosperity of North Carolina. Give Today! IEI Podcasts View All Podcasts First in Future: Conversation with Governor Cooper In this episode, we talk with North Carolina’s Governor Cooper on his look back at 2021 and forth to 2022. We hear his thoughts on how we might get more people back into the work place and get 400,000 more people with skills and abilities beyond high school into the work force. He discusses his push to get more broadband home adoption to the people to help with work, education and telemedicine. First in Future: Can Kitty Hawk Take Flight? In this episode, we focus on a college solution for 1.5 million NC adults. Connected: Upper Coastal Plain Digital Inclusion Plan In this episode of the “Connected” podcast series, host Maggie Woods speaks to Robert Hiett; Executive Director and Ben Farmer; Economic Development Planner for the Upper Coastal Plain Council of Governments. Institute for Emerging Issues Home Mailing Address: Institute for Emerging Issues NC State University Centennial Campus Box 7406 Raleigh, NC 27695 Physical Address: James B. Hunt, Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way, Suite 4100 Raleigh, NC 27606 emergingissues@ncsu.edu 919.515.7741 Connect Emerging Issues Forums Programs Media Sign up to receive IEI emails Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.