Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Current Doctoral Students Employers Employers Alumni Faculty & Staff About» Research» Admissions» FAQ & Timeline | 2021 Admissions Meet Our Students Visit Us Student Life Tuition and Fees Deadlines General FAQ Undergraduate» Advising & Program Plans BS in Industrial Engineering (BSIE) BS in Operations Research (BSOR) BS in OR: Analytics (BSOR:A) BS in OR: Engineering Management Systems (BSOR:EMS) BS in OR: Financial Engineering (BSOR:FE) Minors Electives Master of Science Programs» MS in Management Science and Engineering MS in Business Analytics MS in Financial Engineering (MSFE) MS in Operations Research (MSOR) MS in Industrial Engineering (MSIE) What is Industrial Engineering? Doctoral» Current Student Resources» Advising BS Student Resources MS Student Resources PhD Student Resources Courses Connect with Us» People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Bulletin Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Operations Research Students Programs Operations Research Students Programs About us Operations Research uses mathematical models to improve decision making in complex environments. Our faculty members are widely recognized for their contributions to the foundations of the discipline and lead cutting-edge research in healthcare operations, financial engineering, supply chain management, and market design. Faculty | PhD Students | Staff | Seminars Connect with Us Our website is the best resources for our students. Whether current or prospective, we are here to help our students navigate through the wealth of resources available. Log in below to explore relevant resources or make an appointment! Students Intranet Portal | Join Us Our Educational Programs The Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research is home to five educational disciplines: Business Analytics, Financial Engineering, Management Science and Engineering, Operations Research, and Industrial Engineering. Our programs are STEM designated. Undergraduate Programs | Master's Programs | Doctoral Programs Welcome to the Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. The department is the home to five disciplines: management science and engineering, financial engineering, business analytics, operations research, and industrial engineering. We offer multiple undergraduate programs and various graduate programs leading to a degree of Master of Science (MS) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). Seminars in conjunction with other departments are also offered. We also produce prominent research in areas like logistics, supply chain management, network algorithms, revenue management, and more. COVID-19 Updates and Guidance Education and Practice Research & Centers Seminars COVID-19 Updates and Guidance For operational updates and health guidance from the University, please visit the COVID-19 Resource Guide. Education and Practice Education and Practice Our philosophy in education is to integrate theory and practice. We offer degree programs leading to degrees of Bachelor of Science (BS), Master of Science (MS) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), offering various concentrations that allow each student to pursue his or her area of interest. We also encourage our students to engage with industry partners during their studies. For example, our MS in Management Science and Engineering program features the Operations Consulting course, where students engage with multiple industry partners throughout their studies to solve business problems and propose innovative solutions. Learn more about our graduate admissions process. Learn more about undergraduate admissions process. Research & Centers Research & Centers The department constantly and consistently produces prominent research in the areas of logistics, routing, scheduling, production and supply chain management, inventory control, revenue management, and quality control. New developments are being explored in operations research—in particular, mathematical programming, combinatorial optimization, stochastic modeling, computational and mathematical finance, queuing theory, reliability, simulation, and both deterministic and stochastic network flows. In finance, research is conducted in portfolio management, option pricing including exotic and real options, computational finance like Monte Carlo simulation and numerical methods, and data mining and risk management. Projects are sponsored and supported by leading private firms and government agencies. Our faculty and students are involved in the work of the following research and educational centers: Center for Applied Probability Center for Financial Engineering Computational Optimization Research Center Center for Management of Systemic Risk Financial Data Technologies Center for Intelligent Asset Management Learn more about our centers. Seminars Seminars The Applied Probability and Risk Seminar is a joint seminar between IEOR, the Statistics Department, and the Center for Applied Probability (CAP). The IEOR-DRO Seminar is a joint offering from IEOR and the Decision, Risk and Operations Division of the Columbia Business School. It features prominent research on decision-making through optimization, modeling and managing uncertainty, and all aspects of the operations function in firms. The Financial Engineering Practitioners Seminar exhibits research and practice in financial engineering and related fields. The seminars meet on Monday evenings from 6:00–7:30 p.m. and are followed by a reception and refreshments. We welcome attendees from industry and academia. Learn more about our Seminars. News » Press Release Profs. Bienstock, Capponi, and Iyengar Win $2M DOE Award to Develop Power Grid Risk Dashboard Three Columbia Engineering professors are integrating their expertise in power grids, optimization, and financial engineering with data science techniques to build a risk dashboard to assess and predict risks to the... More Jun 29 2020 | By Holly Evarts | Bienstock Photo Credit: Dennis Bienstock | Capponi Photo Credit: TIMOTHY LEE PHOTOGRAPHERS | Iyengar Photo Credit: EILEEN BARROSO Designing AI Algorithms to Make Fair Decisions in Auctions, Pricing, and Marketing NSF/Amazon FAI grant will support IEOR team’s work to ensure that personalized targeting is fair More Mar 28 2022 | By Holly Evarts Elias Bareinboim and Christian Kroer Win ONR Young Investigator Awards Bareinboim will develop a new framework that will lead to more efficient and robust decision-making; Kroer will develop new algorithms based on game theory to More Mar 14 2022 | By Allison Chen Soulaymane Kachani Appointed Senior Vice Provost at the University Since joining Columbia in 2003, Kachani has distinguished himself as an outstanding educator, innovator, and administrator More Feb 25 2022 Martin Reiman and Three Columbia Engineering Alums Elected to National Academy of Engineering Columbia engineers recognized for contributions to network theory, silicon photonics, biomedical imaging, regenerative medicine, mechanobiology, and industry More Feb 14 2022 | By Allison Elliott University Faculty Team Up Again to Design Tech Innovations for NYC For second year in a row, faculty win Urban Tech Awards to develop technology innovations to improve urban living in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, More Feb 14 2022 | By Allison Chen 2019 INFORMS Conference Awards The IEOR Department will like to congratulate their doctoral students who received prestigious awards at the annual INFORMS conference More Oct 21 2019 Putting People First Engineering experts put emphasis on designing solutions that cater to peoples’ needs More Feb 02 2022 | By Kyle Barr Optimizing FDNY Ambulance Response During pandemic, Columbia engineers team up with the Fire Department of New York to improve EMS response operations and balance hospital capacity loads More Nov 22 2021 | By Holly Evarts | Photo Credit: 5W/Juan Velasco From Mind to Marketplace A vibrant entrepreneurship ecosystem helps Columbia Engineering students like Vladena Powers turn good ideas into great companies More Jul 19 2019 | By JESSE ADAMS | Photos courtesy of Vladlena Powers Queuing Safely for Elevator Systems Amidst a Pandemic More Feb 09 2021 | By "Columbia Engineering researchers design a method to safely manage elevator queues during the pandemic" | https://www.engineering.columbia.edu/press-release/elmachtoub-sharing-elevators Press Release Secure Humanity: Financial IEOR Professor Dan Lacker Wins Early Career Prize Lacker’s work focuses on probabilistic theory of mean field games More Jun 07 2019 | By Allison Elliott | Photo courtesy of Dan Lacker Press Release SWE Hosts Women in Engineering Day More May 07 2019 | By Joanne Hvala | Agrawal, Chilton Photo Credit: Timothy Lee Photographers | Di, Obermeyer Photo Credit: Jeffrey Schifman Press Release Algorithms Shipra Agrawal Wins NSF CAREER Award She will develop new learning frameworks and algorithms to account for consumer behavior in product pricing and recommendation. More Mar 04 2019 | By Joanne Hvala | Photo Credit: Timothy Lee Photographers Press Release Secure Humanity: Financial Faculty Tech Talk: The Power of Fintech Columbia Engineering professors at the forefront of fintech sat down with Dean Boyce and a crowd of students as part of the School’s latest faculty tech talk. More Nov 07 2018 | By Jesse Adams | Iyengar photo credit: Eileen Barroso | Zhou photo credit: Jeffrey Schifman Press Release Secure Humanity: Financial The Tang Family Gives $20 Million to Establish the Tang Fund for Engineering Innovations in Financial Technology at Columbia Engineering The gift will support at least two faculty positions, five doctoral fellowships, and research funding that is intended to enhance teaching, accelerate research, More Oct 25 2018 | Photo credit: Jeffrey Schifman Press Release Barnard Creates Pathways for More Women in Engineering in Partnership with Columbia Engineering Barnard announced a new opportunity for students whose interests lie in engineering to complete both a Bachelor of Arts from Barnard and Master of Science More Oct 23 2018 | Updated May 20 2019 | Photo Credit: Asiya Khaki Press Release Columbia Engineering Adds 13 New Faculty in 2018 Thirteen new faculty members join Columbia Engineering this year. Their areas of expertise reflect the School’s commitment to transcending disciplinary More Sep 14 2018 Press Release Soulaymane Kachani Named a World Economic Forum Young Global Leader The World Economic Forum has inducted Soulaymane Kachani, vice dean of Columbia Engineering and a professor in the Department of Industrial Engineering and More May 14 2013 | By Melanie Farmer Master of Science Program in Management Science and Engineering Runtime 4:08 Master of Science Program in Management Science and Engineering Runtime 4:08 Columbia Engineering Masters Financial Engineering NYC Runtime 3:55 Industrial Engineering & Operations Research at Columbia University Runtime 3:27 Master of Science Program in Operations Research Runtime 4:07 Undergraduate Program in Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Runtime 3:46 500 W. 120th Street #315 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212)-854-2942 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Our Instagram sitemap