Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Welcome Message Faculty and Staff Mission and History Accreditation and Affiliations Brochure Brochure (CN) New Students Top Reasons to Study English at UM Arrival and Housing Information Registration and Orientation Programs and Classes Dates and Costs Location and Facilities Health Care and Requirements Current Students Dates Payments Travel Student Handbook Student Services Apply Now How to Apply Transfer to the IEP Conditional Admission to UM IEP Admission FAQ Applying to U.S. Universities Dates & Costs Dates Costs Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Connect with an IEP Advisor Follow us on Social Media Brochure About New Students Current Students Apply Now Dates & Costs Contact Us Search Activities Language Lab Health Advising Services TOEFL and Exams Council of International Students and Organizations About Welcome Message Faculty and Staff Mission and History Accreditation and Affiliations Brochure Brochure (CN) New Students Top Reasons to Study English at UM Arrival and Housing Information Registration and Orientation Programs and Classes Dates and Costs Location and Facilities Health Care and Requirements Current Students Dates Payments Travel Student Handbook Student Services Apply Now How to Apply Transfer to the IEP Conditional Admission to UM IEP Admission FAQ Applying to U.S. Universities Dates & Costs Dates Costs Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Connect with an IEP Advisor Follow us on Social Media Brochure Activities Language Lab Health Advising Services TOEFL and Exams Council of International Students and Organizations RELATED LINKS TOEFL Website Graduate School TOEFL or Other English Proficiency Requirements About New Students Current Students Apply Now Dates & Costs Contact Us Home Current Students Student Services TOEFL and Exams AAA TOEFL and Exams Activities Language Lab Health Advising Services TOEFL and Exams Council of International Students and Organizations RELATED LINKS TOEFL Website Graduate School TOEFL or Other English Proficiency Requirements GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The Institutional TOEFL, also known as the ITP, will be given only one time during the fall and spring semesters. No official score report will be given, and scores may only be used at the University of Miami. This is generally the only exam which students with undergraduate conditional admission may take to fulfill their English requirement. Students should refer to the Academic Calendar in the Student Handbook for the exact date for each semester. Registration for the exam will be the week before the exam. Students with conditional admission to the University of Miami will be permitted to register for the exam first, and others will be permitted to register as space allows. For questions about undergraduate TOEFL requirements at UM, please visit the Office of Admission . Undergraduate applicants should note the following: - TOEFL deadline for consideration for the fall semester: January 1 - TOEFL deadline for consideration for the spring semester: November 1 - IEP students are expected to pass their current IEP classes regardless of their TOEFL score. The University of Miami may rescind final admission from any student who does not pass his/her current IEP classes. IEP grades will appear on the student's official undergraduate transcript. For questions about graduate TOEFL requirements at UM, please contact the appropriate graduate program. Students who must take the International TOEFL, either for graduate admission at UM, or for other purposes, may register for the exam online at www.toefl.org . The exam is typically given a few times each month at various testing locations in South Florida. Students who take the iBT must request that official score reports be sent from ETS to the colleges or universities of their choice. The University of Miami TOEFL code number is C730 . Students who fulfill their English requirement and/or gain admission to UM during the semester are still required to complete all their IEP classes. They will receive a grade in each of their classes, regardless of their TOEFL score or admission status. For questions about graduate TOEFL requirements at UM, please contact the appropriate graduate program. The IELTS is also given locally. Please visit www.ielts.org for more information. Other entrance exams, such as the LSAT , the GRE and GMAT are also given regularly in South Florida. To register for these exams, please visit www.ets.org . University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Intensive English Program 5050 Brunson Drive Room 111 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4000 305-284-4000 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices