Institute for Geophysics Understanding the Earth and other planets to solve key problems that affect us all. The world needs geophysicists! About Institutional History Mission & Science Code of Conduct Job Listings Postdoctoral Fellowships Outreach Contact UT Austin Science Olympiad News Media Releases Geophysics Blog In the News Staff and Student Awards Media Contacts Research Climate Polar and Planetary Energy Marine Geosciences, Seismology and Tectonics Staff Research Scientists Postdoctoral Fellows Administrative Staff Scientific Support Staff Research Affiliates Find an Expert Students Current Students Recent Graduates Meet the UTIG Student Prospective Students UT Marine Geology & Geophysics Field Course Seminars COVID-19 JSG Coronavirus Updates Give to UT’s Student Emergency Fund Climate Research relevant to future global change as well as the analysis of past climate over time scales from years to millions of years. Polar and Planetary Airborne, land-based, and marine geophysical methods applied everywhere from Greenland to Europa. Energy Leading efforts to explore marine reserves of oil, natural gas, gas hydrates, and minerals. Marine Geosciences, Seismology and Tectonics Investigating tectonic processes with a special focus on marine geophysics and subduction zones around the globe. May 17, 2022 Celebrate UTIG! Staff and Student Awards 2020-2021 Filed Under: homepage-news, News Tagged With: awards, staff awards, UTIG May 9, 2022 Newly Discovered Lake May Hold Secret to Antarctic Ice Sheet’s Rise and Fall Scientists investigating the underside of the world’s largest ice sheet in East Antarctica have discovered a city-size lake whose sediments might contain a history of the ice sheet since its earliest beginnings. That would answer questions about what Antarctica was like before it froze, how climate change has affected it over its history, and how… Continue Reading Newly Discovered Lake May Hold Secret to Antarctic Ice Sheet’s Rise and Fall Filed Under: homepage-news, Media Releases, News Tagged With: aerogeophysics, Antarctica, climate change, East Antarctica, ice sheets, ICECAP, ICECAP-2, radar, Shuai Yan, student research, subglacial lakes May 4, 2022 UTIG Students Take Top 2022 Departmental Awards Congratulations Abby Varona (MSc), Kevin Meazell (PhD), and Sebastian Ramiro-Ramirez (PhD) who took three of the top nine student research awards at the UT Jackson School of Geosciences Department of Geological Sciences 2022 Departmental Awards! The annual awards recognize extraordinary efforts in the 2021-2022 academic year. The awards were presented by department chair Daniel Stockli,… Continue Reading UTIG Students Take Top 2022 Departmental Awards Filed Under: GOM2 News, homepage-news, News Tagged With: Abby Varona, awards, Flemings Group, Kevin Meazell, Peter Flemings, Sebastian Ramiro-Ramirez, student awards April 29, 2022 Jackson School Students Win AGU’s 2021 Outstanding Student Presentation Award Once again, Jackson School of Geosciences students were among the top student presenters at the American Geophysical Union’s Fall Meeting. Although AGU’s 2021 Fall Meeting took place in December, the awards are announced throughout the spring semester. The winners are selected based on research quality and a student’s ability to effectively communicate their research. As of April… Continue Reading Jackson School Students Win AGU’s 2021 Outstanding Student Presentation Award Filed Under: homepage-news, Media Releases, News Tagged With: AGU, awards, graduate students, OSPA, Outstanding Student Presentation Award, student awards, undergraduate students April 19, 2022 UTIG’s Admin Staff Join Researchers On Mission to Lake Austin The University of Texas Institute for Geophysics called on reinforcements to help the City of Austin monitor the health of Austin’s lakes: the UTIG admin team! On April 14, the team joined researchers aboard the RV Scott Petty for a hands-on exercise in geophysics. The science demonstration had participants learning to use sonar and sampling sediments with a… Continue Reading UTIG’s Admin Staff Join Researchers On Mission to Lake Austin Filed Under: Geophysics Blog, homepage-news, News Tagged With: Blue Sky program, City of Austin, Dan Duncan, Lake Austin, Marcy Davis, RV Scott Petty, UTIG Admins 1 2 3 … 33 Next Page » Tweets by UTGeophysics University of Texas Institute for Geophysics J.J. Pickle Research Campus, Building 196 10100 Burnet Road (R2200) Austin, TX 78758-4445 Phone: 512-471-6156 Fax: 512-471-2370 Driving Directions Connect with us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube QUESTIONS? frontdesk@ig.utexas.edu or contact the webmaster social@ig.utexas.edu RESOURCES Seismograms Publications Database Texas ScholarWorks Travel Guide for UTIG Employees Google Scholar Facilities HELPFUL LINKS Directory (EID) Job Listings UTIG Fact Sheet UTIG Brochure UTIG Science Vision Plan UTIG Newsletter UTIG Code of Conduct Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion OUR PARTNERS Bureau of Economic Geology Department of Geological Sciences Center for Planetary Systems Habitability Copyright © 2022 University of Texas Institute for Geophysics The University of Texas at Austin · Web Privacy Policy · Web Accessibility Policy