May 31, 2022 CoE Site Index | Search IGERT Award in Wind Energy Science, Engineering, and Policy (WESEP) Iowa State University IGERT: Wind Energy Science, Engineering, and Policy (WESEP) About Vision Broader Impacts Why WESEP? Program Evaluation Apply Research Research Objectives Research Thrusts Education Curriculum Structure Level 1: Introductory Courses Level 2: Core Courses Level 3: Specialization Courses Real-Time Research Collaborative Communication and Ethics Outreach & Dissemination Industry and International Experience Mentoring Experience Recruiting Activities Faculty Faculty Information Students Departments Partners Industry and International Partners Project Advisory Board News Links Contact Us Events Workshop on Energy, Transportation, and Water Infrastructure Graduate Program in Wind Energy Science, Engineering and Policy The Wind Energy Science, Engineering, and Policy program will produce graduates that will be technical experts, responsible communicators, and ethical decision-makers who can lead the nation toward meeting national goals in the use of wind energy to reduce climate impacts, while contributing to U.S. economic competitiveness. This Integrative Graduate Education and Research Traineeship (IGERT) award supports the development of a new multidisciplinary, multi-institutional graduate training program of education and research in Wind Energy Science, Engineering and Policy (WESEP), at Iowa State University, in collaboration with the University of Puerto Rico – Mayagüez. The purpose of this program is to provide doctoral students with multidisciplinary training in the skills required for conducting research at the disciplinary interface between engineering, atmospheric science/meteorology, agriculture/economics, and journalism/communication. The thematic basis is that mitigating global climate change requires energy system transformation to reduce greenhouse gases from the electric sector; wind energy must play a central role in this, which will occur only through interdisciplinary leadership in advancing pertinent science, engineering, technology, and policy. The vision is to strengthen the nation’s wind energy resources by producing technical experts, effective communicators, and ethical decision-makers who will lead the U.S. transformation to a high wind energy portfolio. The research will increase wind energy growth rate, decrease its cost, and extend its penetration limits. Our education program includes a 3-6 month industry internship, a 3-month international experience, and a 3-level curriculum to provide breadth, interdisciplinary research strength, and advanced training and depth in WESEP. For program requirements and application process visit http://www.grad-college.iastate.edu/academics/programs/apresults.php?id=116 Description of Qualifier Exam Final: DescriptionofQualifierExamFinal2017 Thrust Area Courses: WESEP Thrust Area Courses_12_15_2017 ABOUT IGERT IGERT is a National Science Foundation (NSF) program intended to meet the challenges of educating U.S. PhD scientists and engineers with the interdisciplinary background, deep knowledge in a chosen discipline, and the technical, professional, and personal skills needed for the career demands of the future. The program is intended to catalyze a cultural change in graduate education by establishing innovative new models for graduate education and training in a fertile environment for collaborative research that transcends traditional disciplinary boundaries. Return to top of page Copyright © 2022 · Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-Discrimination Statement and Information Disclosures