Skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Illinois Global Institute Search Search Apply Make a gift Menu About About Academics Undergraduate Graduate All Courses People IGI Executive Office Centers & Programs Faculty Affiliates Center Staff Centers & Programs Center for African Studies Center for East Asian & Pacific Studies Center for Global Studies Center for Latin American & Caribbean Studies Center for South Asian & Middle Eastern Studies European Union Center Lemann Center for Brazilian Studies The Program in Arms Control & Domestic & International Security Russian, East European, and Eurasian Center Women & Gender in Global Perspectives Program Student Fellowships Undergraduate Graduate Public Engagement Blueprint for Transitional Justice Global STEAM IGI Series on Global Responsibilities Pre-K thru 12 Outreach CLACS Associate Director awarded college sponsored honor Kasia Szremski, associate director for Center for Latin American & Caribbean Studies, was selected by the Liberal Arts and Sciences award committee for the LAS Academic Professional Award Read More Illinois Global Institute Fall 2021 Newsletter Learn More Blueprint for Transitional Justice Speaker Series IGI announces the Blueprint for Transitional Justice Speaker Series. Learn More More Institute News IGI mourns passing of Professor Dara Goldman The Illinois Global Institute (IGI) and its area and global studies centers and thematic programs mourn the unexpected and untimely passing of our very dear colleague, Dara Goldman. Dara was a Professor of Spanish, Director of the Program in Jewish Culture & Society, and a longtime member of... Read full story European Union Center continuing their excellence The European Union Center (EUC) has been a focal point for teaching, research, and outreach on Europe and the European Union at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign since 1998. The center received news that their proposal for a new Jean Monnet Center of Excellence grant under the European... Read full story Journalist alumnus Terrell Jermaine Starr to visit campus Russia, East European, and Eurasian Center (REEEC) is hosting "A Conversation with Terrell Jermaine Starr" on Tuesday, April 19 at 7:30pm. The event will be in the Auditorium of the Campus... Read full story More News Calendar More Events SAME 250 Introduction to Middle East Studies (online) Summer 2021 - Online Introduction to the study of the region known as the "Middle East." Students will gain an appreciation of the variety of cultures, ethnicities, and religious traditions in the region, as well as how recent history has changed long-standing norms, and... Course Description for SAME 250 LAST 590 Global STEAM Graduate Seminar Fall 2021 Provides graduate students with weekly explorations into the relationship between the sciences, humanities, and the arts in addressing issues of global significance through an interdisciplinary inquiry. Each week, Global STEAM Working Group faculty members will... Course Description for LAST 590 AFST 222 Introduction to Modern Africa (online) Summer 2021 - Online Modern Africa has sustained the world's most rapid and profound changes following centuries of the Atlantic slave trade and colonialism. The African continent saw its social systems, economic structures, political organizations, and religious and... Course Description for AFST 222 EURO 418 Language & Minorities in Europe Fall 2021 Introduction to sociolinguistic, political, judicial, and cultural issues concerning dominant and historical migrant or recent immigrant languages used in the countries of the European Union. It focuses on differences in language ideologies as they are enacted... Course Description for EURO 418 EURO 501 EU Institutions and Governance Fall 2021 A graduate-level introduction to the European Union, its history, decision-making processes, legal framework, and political and economic effects. Undergraduates need prior approval from the instructor to register for this course. Course Description for EURO 501 EURO 500 Dialogue on Europe Fall 2021 This proseminar explores a variety of subjects related to Europe, the European Union, and issues concerning the European Union Center’s academic programming. Topics covered range from current political, cultural, and scientific issues in Europe; different... Course Description for EURO 500 EURO 385 Politics of the European Union Fall 2021 Considers the history of the European Union and its current functions and operations. Focuses on the ongoing process of political and cultural integration. Consists of sections in Illinois and abroad, interacting extensively via the worldwide web. Course Description for EURO 385 GLBL 500 Governing the Global Society Fall 2021 Professor Donna Tonini. Students will examine three propositions: (1) the existence of a global society; (2) the flaws of its principal, global institutions – the state, markets, and democracy; and (3) absent their reform, whether the global society is at risk... Course Description for GLBL 500 GLBL 499 Global Information Society Fall 2021 Professor Steve Witt. This course examines the historical and contemporary transformations associated with globalization from the perspective of information as a core element of sociotechnical and political-economic processes. Drawing on themes of empire,... Course Description for GLBL 499 LAST 445 Beginning Quechua - Native Latin American Languages Fall 2021 Beginning and Intermediate Quechua Upon the consent of the Director of the Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies, tutorials are available in special native Latin American languages not regularly offered by the University (ie. Quechua, Kagchikel Mayan... Course Description for LAST 445 LAST 210 Life in the Andes Fall 2021 An overview of contemporary Andean culture, as practiced by the people in Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador. This culture is the result of the resilience of the pre-Hispanic Andean heritage, and the continuous adaptation Andean people have practiced, first, to control... Course Description for LAST 210 LAST 170 Introduction to Latin American Studies Summer and Fall 2021 An interdisciplinary introduction to the ways of life of Latin American peoples, their origins, and current expressions; discusses social, economic issues, and domestic and international policies related to them in the context of other societies in... Course Description for LAST 170 AFST 522 Development of African Studies SPRING Examines the development of Africanist scholarship during the 20th century and the changing paradigms in African Studies; focuses on the rise of the area studies model and its influences on the major Social Science and Humanities disciplines. Course Description for AFST 522 Illinois Global Institute College of Liberal Arts & Sciences 104 Coble Hall 801 S. Wright St., Champaign, IL 61820 Phone: (217) 244-1146 E-mail: igi-info@illinois.edu Calendar Facebook linkedin Twitter Department Login Search form Search Copyright Privacy Notice Accessibility ATLAS Site login About Cookies