Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Institute for Information Security & Privacy | Georgia Tech Menu Close Home About About the IISP Quick Facts Awards & Distinctions Research About Our Research Research Labs Available Tools Faculty Seed Funding Education Overview School of Cybersecurity and Privacy Professional Education People Faculty Directory Executive Director Wenke Lee Deputy Director J. Sukarno Mertoguno Ph.D. Fellows Staff Events Annual Summit Cybersecurity Lecture Series Demo Day News Center Latest News Source Port Newsletter Threats Reports News Releases News Archive Partner For Faculty Contact Us Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Twitter Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home We Are Moving! The Institute for Information Security & Privacy has joined the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy! In order to ensure we continue as a coordinating body for cybersecurity research, we are migrating our content to the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy website. We hope to see you there! This website will come down after the start of the new year. Attribution Often the question of "who used it?" is just as salient as "who made it?" when dealing with attribution of malicious activity. Researchers at the Institute for Internet Security & Privacy are working across several fronts of the attribution problem set -- spanning activities such as cyber espionage, cyberattack, and cyber influence. For example, pieces of malicious code are often the most common pieces of forensic evidence available to the security research community. However, a standalone binary by itself is not overly useful in driving attribution statements. This is because a standalone binary lacks context: it does not give away who wrote it, by whom it was controlled, who the infected victims were, or what the aim of the operation was that used the binary. A standalone binary does not even confirm in which operation it was used. What is lacking is context. Georgia Tech researchers are working on large-scale collections of malware samples to posit relationships between binaries. With a sufficient sample size, machine-learning techniques can be applied. Current research builds upon the community’s state-of-the-art approach to attribution, in which code stylometry looks at stylistic features (i.e., white spaces, operators, literals, etc.) and author-created attributes (i.e., average number of characters per word, character count, use of special characters, punctuation, etc.). Our aim is produce credible links between a binary and a given set of binaries from the same cyber threat actor in a measurable way. We focus on the following domains to derive attribution inferences, and require multiple positive correlations between domains to produce results: String constants; Implementation traits; Custom features, and Infrastructure. Another emerging research area is the attribution -- not just of cyber espionage or cyber attack, in which information theft or damage to a network or physical environment is the goal -- of the growing number of cyber-based information operations. Trolls are undertaking sophisticated operations to sway popular opinion, curb dissent, stir unrest, and instill fear. Regardless of what this type of activity is called – information operations, influence campaigns, cyber manipulation, "fake news," or irregular warfare – this asymmetric and increasingly dangerous activity is on the rise. Researchers at Georgia Tech are looking at ways to attribute this activity using Internet metadata and other fact-based log analysis techniques. How can we definitively know who is responsible for a cyber breach? What can be done when we cannot attribute the breach? Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Cybersecurity Research Areas Attribution Consumer-facing Privacy Cyber Physical Systems Privacy Policy Risk Trust Other Research Areas at Georgia Tech Cybersecurity Labs & Centers Astrolavos Lab CDAIT CIPHER Lab Communications Assurance & Performance Lab Converged Systems Security Lab CyFi Lab Financial Services Innovation Lab Georgia Tech Cyber Security Information & Communications Laboratory Intel ISTC-ARSA Center Polo Club of Data Science Systems Software & Security Laboratory Cybersecurity Education M.S. Cybersecurity M.S. Computer Science Online M.S. C.S. Ph.D. Computer Science Ph.D. Electrical & Computer Engineering Ph.D. Fellowship CyberCorps Scholarship for Service Professional Education Institute for Information Security & Privacy Klaus Advanced Computing Building 266 Ferst Drive, Atlanta, GA 30332 (404) 385-3800 Contact Us Use of Corporate Logos Site Feedback Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology