Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Institute for Information Security & Privacy | Georgia Tech Menu Close Home About About the IISP Quick Facts Awards & Distinctions Research About Our Research Research Labs Available Tools Faculty Seed Funding Education Overview School of Cybersecurity and Privacy Professional Education People Faculty Directory Executive Director Wenke Lee Deputy Director J. Sukarno Mertoguno Ph.D. Fellows Staff Events Annual Summit Cybersecurity Lecture Series Demo Day News Center Latest News Source Port Newsletter Threats Reports News Releases News Archive Partner For Faculty Contact Us Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Twitter Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home We Are Moving! The Institute for Information Security & Privacy has joined the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy! In order to ensure we continue as a coordinating body for cybersecurity research, we are migrating our content to the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy website. We hope to see you there! This website will come down after the start of the new year. Risk Management Organizations today face unprecedented risk from cyberattacks, which can lead to significant financial and reputational loss, inconvenience customers and employees, severely compromise private and proprietary information, cripple the operations of an organization or the economy, and even cause physical harm. All levels of an organization -- especially senior managers both in the private and public sectors -- must be more vigilant than ever before in order to mitigate the risk caused by cyberattacks and data breaches, whether it is a direct attack on an enterprise or the risks brought to it by personal employee devices. Several evolving technical solutions partially mitigate these risks for organizations. These solutions are continuously adapting as the nature of cyberattacks change over time, and multiple technical solutions are used in parallel to provide “defense in depth.” The role of technology managers, especially those with cybersecurity responsibilities, is to manage the deployment of such technical solutions, countermeasures, policies and procedures to meet the risk objectives of senior management within the limited resources available. The research focus of the Risk Management area of the Institute for Information Security & Privacy is on this middle layer that deploys the technical solutions available to meet the risk objectives of senior management, with special emphasis on policies, procedures and end-user training in order to create a safer computing environment. In addition, the research focus is also on public policy issues that provide the right incentives to various stakeholders within the ecosystem to minimize risk for participants. Broad research themes for Risk Management are: Controls and Countermeasures – understanding the best practices and security management processes to reduce risk for the organization. These include business continuity and disaster recovery, software vulnerability management, audit controls, human resource policies, employee training, data, software and device usage policies, traffic and activity monitoring processes, access control methods, customer, vendor and user credentialing, and various other organizational processes that minimize risk from cyber attacks. Financial Analysis and Metrics – understanding the cost-benefits of information security, the financial and reputational impact of security breaches on the organization, cybersecurity insurance, risk analytics, and metrics to evaluate and quantify cybersecurity risk. Cybersecurity Ecosystem – understanding public policy approaches that pose incentives for stakeholders and facilitate optimal information sharing among participants, creating a more secure ecosystem for commerce. How do we quantify & assess in real time? Who do we watch? What do we look for? Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Cybersecurity Research Areas Attribution Consumer-facing Privacy Cyber Physical Systems Privacy Policy Risk Trust Other Research Areas at Georgia Tech Cybersecurity Labs & Centers Astrolavos Lab CDAIT CIPHER Lab Communications Assurance & Performance Lab Converged Systems Security Lab CyFi Lab Financial Services Innovation Lab Georgia Tech Cyber Security Information & Communications Laboratory Intel ISTC-ARSA Center Polo Club of Data Science Systems Software & Security Laboratory Cybersecurity Education M.S. Cybersecurity M.S. Computer Science Online M.S. C.S. Ph.D. Computer Science Ph.D. Electrical & Computer Engineering Ph.D. Fellowship CyberCorps Scholarship for Service Professional Education Institute for Information Security & Privacy Klaus Advanced Computing Building 266 Ferst Drive, Atlanta, GA 30332 (404) 385-3800 Contact Us Use of Corporate Logos Site Feedback Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology