Skip to main content Institutional Knowledge Management Navigation Facts Information ResourcesInteractive FactsInsights DashboardsPegasus Mine Portal Reports Common Data SetIPEDSSurveysNational Doctoral Degrees Performance UCF RankingsBenchmarkingStrategic Planning Resources Data GlossaryReporting LibrarySubmit an IKM RequestSecurity Access & Training RequestsAcademic Program InventoryActive Degree Programs by CIPFaculty Activity SystemRelated Links About About IKMIKM StaffStaff Presentations Pegasus Mine Portal The Pegasus Mine Portal (PMP) is the gateway to access university data and information in a secure online environment. All UCF full-time faculty and staff can access PMP. OPS and part-time employees can request access via their department’s security authorizer. Access PMP here: https://pegmine.ikm.ucf.edu A UCF VPN connection is required prior to logging in to the Pegasus Mine Portal. The PMP login page will not load unless you are connected to dc.vpn.ucf.edu or secure.vpn.ucf.edu. To set up a UCF VPN, click here. If you are experiencing any VPN issues, contact the UCF HelpDesk at 407-823-5117. PMP content is grouped into several different categories containing reports and charts on the following: Data Schedule Academic Program Inventory As needed when programs are created or revised Admissions Enrollment Student Credit Hours Grades Retention* Unless otherwise noted, all PMP data comes from the Florida Board of Governors state files and is updated each term (Summer, Fall and Spring) based on the following schedule: Early: approximately one week after the add/drop deadline of the term Preliminary: approximately six weeks after the start of the term Final: approximately six weeks after the completion of the term (this is the only source for official reporting) *Retention data is not updated in the Summer Degrees Daily at 5am Course Information Course Registration Profile: during Multiple Term Registration, course data is updated every 2 hours from 7am-5pm Course Registration Detail by Term: real-time Faculty Annually in late November Please see the UCF Academic Calendar for term dates. Custom Reports IKM also provides custom report creation for units that require information that cannot be found in one of the general reports. To request a custom report, please submit an IKM data request form. RDS RDS is a limited access area within PMP that contains student-level data related to advising, class rosters, grades, graduation, student groups, student program/plans and registration. The data in RDS is downloaded from PeopleSoft daily at 5:00am. UCF employees who have completed FERPA training can request access via their department’s security authorizer. FERPA training must be renewed every two years to retain RDS access. Training IKM offers training for the Pegasus Mine Portal (PMP) and RDS on the second Wednesday of each month. To sign up for a training course, log in to my.ucf.edu, select Employee Self Service > Learning and Development > Request Training Enrollment > Search by Course Number, then enter IKM500. Click “View Available Sessions” and then select your preferred date. Issues & Troubleshooting Are you experiencing technical issues with one of our reports or applications? Please submit an IKM support form with the details. Visit https://status.ucf.edu to view the status of critical services across the UCF community. The page also allows you to subscribe to updates to receive immediate notifications of service disruptions that may impact you. Institutional Knowledge Management 12424 Research Parkway Suite 215 Orlando, FL 32826-3269 (407) 823-5061 iroffice@ucf.edu Analytics and Integrated Planning Division Milican Hall 331 4365 Andromeda Loop North Orlando, FL 32816-0086 407-823-3549 analytics@ucf.edu Links Analytics and Integrated Planning Submit an IKM Request Security Access & Training Requests IKM Support UCF Facts