Skip to main content Institutional Knowledge Management Navigation Facts Information ResourcesInteractive FactsInsights DashboardsPegasus Mine Portal Reports Common Data SetIPEDSSurveysNational Doctoral Degrees Performance UCF RankingsBenchmarkingStrategic Planning Resources Data GlossaryReporting LibrarySubmit an IKM RequestSecurity Access & Training RequestsAcademic Program InventoryActive Degree Programs by CIPFaculty Activity SystemRelated Links About About IKMIKM StaffStaff Presentations Information Resources Published Data Interactive Facts A collection of interactive dashboards covering a variety of topics including: admissions, enrollment, degrees awarded, retention & graduation, faculty & staff, and more. Access to this page is open to the public. Insights Dashboards A collection of dashboards created to provide data and insights in support of specific groups or initiatives including: student performance (including UCF Online), high impact practices, co-curricular activities, SCH budget model (limited access) and Dean’s Challenge. Access to these dashboards requires UCF NID login credentials. Pegasus Mine Portal (PMP) & RDS A collection of reports and charts including: academic program inventory, course information, degrees awarded, enrollment, faculty, grades, retention, and student credit hours (SCH). RDS contains student-level data. Access to this application requires UCF NID login credentials. Data Requests If you have reviewed the published data and still need additional information, please submit a data request by completing an IKM data request form. Requests for data should be as specific as possible, including a desired due date and complete contact information. Data request processing time is dependent on factors including data availability, IKM workload, level of complexity and available resources. Please allow 10 working days for your request to be processed (every effort will be made to respond to earlier due dates for high priority requests). Issues & Troubleshooting Are you experiencing technical issues with one of our reports or applications? Please submit an IKM support form with the details. Visit https://status.ucf.edu to view the status of critical services across the UCF community. The page also allows you to subscribe to updates to receive immediate notifications of service disruptions that may impact you. Security Access for IKM Applications Pegasus Mine Portal (PMP): All UCF full-time faculty and staff can automatically access PMP. OPS and part-time employees can request access via their department’s security authorizer. RDS: UCF employees with a business need can request access via their department’s security authorizer. SAS Enterprise Guide (EG): UCF employees with a business need can request access via their department’s security authorizer. Insights Dashboards: UCF employees with a business need can request access by completing an IKM security form. Request Training IKM offers training for the Pegasus Mine Portal (PMP) and RDS on the second Wednesday of each month. To sign up for a training course, log in to my.ucf.edu, select Employee Self Service > Learning and Development > Request Training Enrollment > Search by Course Number, then enter IKM500. Click “View Available Sessions” and then select your preferred date. To schedule training for any of the other IKM applications listed above, please email iroffice@ucf.edu. NOTE: IKM complies with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA), therefore certain types of information cannot be released. For more information about FERPA, please visit: https://registrar.ucf.edu/ferpa/ Institutional Knowledge Management 12424 Research Parkway Suite 215 Orlando, FL 32826-3269 (407) 823-5061 iroffice@ucf.edu Analytics and Integrated Planning Division Milican Hall 331 4365 Andromeda Loop North Orlando, FL 32816-0086 407-823-3549 analytics@ucf.edu Links Analytics and Integrated Planning Submit an IKM Request Security Access & Training Requests IKM Support UCF Facts