Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Institute of Latin American Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded People Regional Centers and Programs News and Resources Events Undergraduate Graduate Courses Affiliated Faculty Leadership and Staff Visiting Scholars and Fellows Lemann Center for Brazilian Studies Center for Mexico and Central America Greater Caribbean Studies Program Argentine Studies Program Cuba Program Education Programs New York City Consortium for Latin American Studies Nature & Society Program Student Initiatives News and Media News Podcast Videos Funding and Opportunities Visiting Professors and Scholars Opportunities Funding for Columbia Faculty Funding for Columbia Students MA in Regional Studies MA Degree Requirements MA Thesis Guidelines Specialization and Certificate Funding Opportunities for Students Undergraduate Courses Fall 2022 Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Graduate Courses Fall 2022 Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Fall 2019 NYU Consortium Classes Forms and Checklists Institute of Latin American Studies Institute of Latin American Studies Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Previous Next Our Programs Undergraduate Major and Concentration Combine general mastery of a discipline of your choice with critical language and cultural skills, all while learning from Columbia’s renowned faculty. MA in Regional Studies This interdisciplinary program provides a broad social science-based approach to modern and contemporary Latin America and the Caribbean. Specialization and Certificate ILAS offers a certificate program to graduate students who complete an interdisciplinary program in conjunction with their own departmental degrees. Visiting Professors and Scholars ILAS hosts visiting faculty and scholars through a variety of funded and unfunded opportunities, including an open call for Visiting Scholars. Explore the Institute About ILAS Leadership and Staff Regional Centers & Programs Global Centers | Latin America Upcoming Events Jun15Wed Articulating Multilingual Learner STEM Teacher Needs - Roundtable Online 5:00 PM - 6:00 PM America/New_York More Events News May 03, 2022 Jobs, Internships, Volunteer Opportunities This digest of job, internship, and volunteer opportunities is published weekly; each post is live for four weeks. Tags Weekly Digest April 17, 2022 Douglas A. Chalmers 1932-2022 April 12, 2021 Study on COVID-19's Impact on Crime in Latin America More News Tweets by ILASColumbia Featured Videos From Digital Government to Open Government in Cuba The Cuba Program at Columbia University Presents: From Digital Government to Open Government in Cuba Moderator: Dr. Margaret E. Crahan, Senior Research Scholar, and Director, Cuba Program at the Institute of Latin American Studies, Columbia University. Speaker: Harold Cardenas, Director, and Co-Founder of JOVEN CUBA. Commentator: Dr. Ariel C. Armony, head of the University of Pittsburgh’s global engagement and the Vice Provost for Global Affairs and directs the University Center for International Studies. Rural Education, Social Experiments and State in Mexico: 1910-1933 The book analyzes the role that national rural education programs played in cultural change and in the institutionalization of a new political regime in Mexico's post-revolutionary years. Through a series of policy trials to educate rural populations, it seeks to unveil how citizenship, family, and religion were reshaped and attempted, in turn, to reshape rural identities to fit modern society. With Marco Calderón, Professor and Researcher at the Center for Anthropological Studies, El Colegio de Michoacán Discussant: Carlos Escalante, Professor and Researcher of Contemporary History, El Colegio Mexiquense The Impact of COVID-19 on Interactive Global Networks in Tepoztlan, Mexico Professor and pioneering Mexican anthropologist Lourdes Arizpe presents the impact of Covid-19 in Tepoztlán, Morelos, Mexico, based on her ongoing ethnographic study. In addition, Professor Arizpe speaks about the major pathways and themes of analysis that anthropology could develop in the coming years of living with the pandemic. More Video Google Map Location Institute of Latin American Studies420 W. 118th St., 8th Floor IAB, MC3339 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-4643 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close