Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Dean's Welcome Meet the Team Custom Programs Graduate Programs English for Graduate Business Studies English for International Teaching Assistants English for Law Certificate Program Intensive English and International LLM Legal English & Skills Program Intensive Programs Intensive English Program Medical Spanish Program Intensive Spanish Program Online Programs Graduate Business English Certificate Contact Us About Custom Programs Graduate Programs Intensive Programs Online Programs Contact Us Search Custom Language Programs About Dean's Welcome Meet the Team Custom Programs Graduate Programs English for Graduate Business Studies English for International Teaching Assistants English for Law Certificate Program Intensive English and International LLM Legal English & Skills Program Intensive Programs Intensive English Program Medical Spanish Program Intensive Spanish Program Online Programs Graduate Business English Certificate Contact Us Custom Language Programs About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Custom Language Programs | Intensive Language Institute AAA Custom Language Programs Custom Language Programs Welcome to the University of Miami - Custom Language Programs The University of Miami’s Intensive Language Institute has a long and rich history of offering high-quality customized programs for international or local students and professionals. We can create the perfect combination of studies and services according to your specifications. At the Intensive Language Institute, we can create specialized language training program around any skill area. We understand that each participant or group has different language learning goals, so our team will work with you to create a unique learning experience. Improve your language skills with private language instruction. Program Information Open All Tabs How Custom Programs Work Value-added features of a customized language program: In-depth needs assessment and skills evaluation Course specifically designed to fit your needs and requirements Training on-site or at University of Miami facilities Flexible schedules in a variety of formats Various teaching modalities Highly qualified and experienced instructors Effective methodology Continuous adaptation throughout the program Personalized service Format Each program is developed and modified to meet the needs of the client. Location Programs can be delivered on the Coral Gables campus of the University of Miami, at the client’s place of business, remote synchronously, or in a hybrid format. Customized Language Course Tuition Number of Students On-Campus Instruction Off-Campus Instruction 1 $115/hour $125/hr 2 or more Contact us for pricing Contact us for pricing The price of books and materials for the course is included in the course tuition. Length Most programs include one to six weeks of instruction. Number of participants We can provide a one-on-one course and we also host groups of various sizes. To maximize your language learning experience, we ensure an appropriate instructor to faculty-to-instructor ratio. Academic Credentials The University of Miami is a world-renowned brand, and upon completion, you will earn the right to include it on your resume. Successful participants receive a digital badge or certificate that can be added to their portfolio of accomplishments. Partners and Clients We have had the pleasure to build individual courses and group programs for the following companies. We have also provided one-on-one courses to many individual clients. Oxiteno American Airlines St Lucia Export Group American Express About our Team The Intensive Language Institute has worked with clients domestically and abroad to provide customized language learning experiences. Our team is committed to providing the highest level of quality and service to every client. From the shortest to the longest program, and the smallest to the largest group, we provide personal, one-on-one service from start to finish. Meet our Team Testimonials My instructor was great. She taught a great mix of grammar, vocabulary, conversation, and culture. Thanks to the course, my Spanish skills are much better. ¡Muchas Gracias! Tom Millon CEO - Global Financial Services Company Request Information University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Intensive Language Institute 5050 Brunson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4000 305-284-4000 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-instagram social-twitter social-linkedin social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices