Skip to main content The University of KansasKU myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay KU Directory Libraries Home Find Resources Services Help Locations and Hours About Menu Home Find Resources Services Help Locations and Hours About WebRetrieve Request Articles, Books & More Via Interlibrary Loan and Document Delivery for your classroom and personal research needs. Chrome users: Due to compatibility issues, we strongly recommend using another browser (such as Firefox or Safari) when submitting requests and viewing your PDFs through WebRetrieve. Enter your Online ID & Password KU Online ID: KU Password: First time user? Create an account. Notice Concerning Copyright Restrictions The copyright law of the United States (title 17, United States Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted material. Under certain conditions specified in the law, libraries and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be "used for any purpose other than private study, scholarship, or research." If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excess of "fair use," that user may be liable for copyright infringement. This institution reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order if, in its judgment, fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. Contact Us 785-864-3960 acqrs@ku.edu Services for Other Users Proxy Borrowers KU Law Faculty and Students KU Med Faculty and Students About Our Services Service Information Tutorials Turnaround Time 66% of copies are filled within 48 hours and 91% within 5 days. 41% of loans are filled within 5 days and 74% within 10 days. Request a Purchase Copyright Information Copyright © 2015 Atlas Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Contact Libraries 785-864-8983 University of Kansas Libraries 1425 Jayhawk Blvd Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Send us your comments or questions about the Libraries website. Articles & Databases Library Catalog e-Journals Subject & Course Guides Locations & Hours My Account Request Books, Articles, ... Ask a Librarian Academics Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Contact KU Lawrence, KS | Maps The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, retaliation, gender identity, gender expression and genetic information in the University’s programs and activities. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies and is the University’s Title IX Coordinator: the Executive Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity and Access, IOA@ku.edu, 1246 W. Campus Road, Room 153A, Lawrence, KS, 66045, (785)864-6414, 711 TTY.