Skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Search Enter Keyword, Phrase, or Name Search Website Quicklinks Campus Directory Map Library Give Now Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents About About Links Overview Leadership Facts Research Milestones Nobels & Pulitzers Rankings Campus Tours Related Links: About Calendars Map Campus Directory Admissions Admissions Links Undergraduate Admissions Apply Majors Blogs Virtual Visits Tuition Financial Aid Request Info Contact Us Graduate College Apply Programs & Contacts Funding Related Links: Admissions Student Affairs Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academics Academics Links Academic Programs Colleges & Schools Programs of Study Honors Programs Illinois Online Classes & Registration Course Explorer Register for Class Academic Calendar Transcripts Related Links: Academics Provost Registrar Canvas Compass Library Research Research Links Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation Research News Research Centers Find an Illinois Expert (Illinois Research Connections) Office of Undergraduate Research Research Park Technology Commercialization Corporate Partnership Opportunities Library Related Links: Research Research Calendar Strategic Plan Research Park Outreach Outreach Links Corporate Relations Community U of I Extension 4-H Youth Development Outreach Events Related Links: Outreach Strategic Plan Calendars International International Links Illinois International International Admissions Study Abroad Academic Programs Global Impact International Student Resources International Faculty, Staff, and Scholar Resources International Safety & Security Illinois Global Institute Related Links: International Calendars Student Affairs Arts & Culture Arts & Culture Links College of Fine & Applied Arts College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Inclusion and Intercultural Relations Krannert Center for the Performing Arts Krannert Art Museum Library Special Collections Spurlock Museum Japan House Allerton Park and Retreat Center Illini Union Athletics Athletics Links Fighting Illini Athletics Wheelchair & Adapted Sports Campus Recreation Marching Illini Illini Pride Related Links: Athletics Campus Map Calendars Close Navigation Overview Leadership Facts Research Milestones Nobels & Pulitzers Rankings Campus Tours Accreditation About Illinois students, scholars, and alumni are a community with the power to change the world. With our land-grant heritage as a foundation, we pioneer innovative research that tackles global problems and expands the human experience. Our transformative learning experiences, in and out of the classroom, are designed to produce alumni who desire to make a significant, societal impact. Links to Illinois Facts 1867 Year Founded 29 Pulitzer Prizes Invented the first graphical web browser #15 Ranked Public University 51,000+ Students from all 50 states and 100+ countries Mission The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is charged by our state to enhance the lives of citizens in Illinois, across the nation and around the world through our leadership in learning, discovery, engagement and economic development. Vision We will be the pre-eminent* public research university with a land-grant mission and global impact. Campus Profile Since its founding in 1867, the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign has earned a reputation as a world-class leader in research, teaching, and public engagement. Faculty A talented and highly respected faculty is the university’s most significant resource. Many are recognized for exceptional scholarship with memberships in such organizations as the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences, and the National Academy of Engineering. Our faculty have been awarded Nobel Prizes, Pulitzer Prizes, and the Fields Medal in Mathematics. The success of our faculty is matched by that of our alumni: 11 are Nobel Laureates and another 18 have won Pulitzer Prizes. Academic Resources Academic resources on campus are among the finest in the world. The University Library is one of the largest public university collections in the world with 14 million volumes in its 20+ unit libraries. Annually, 53,000,000 people visit its online catalog. Students have access to thousands of computer terminals in classrooms, residence halls, and campus libraries for use in classroom instruction, study, and research. Research At Illinois, our focus on research shapes our identity, permeates our classrooms and fuels our outreach. Fostering discovery and innovation is our fundamental mission. As a public, land-grant university, we have the responsibility to create new knowledge and new ideas and translate these into better ways of working, living and learning for our state, nation and world. Entrepreneurship flows from the classrooms to Research Park, a space that houses everything from Fortune 500 companies to student-founded startups. We are consistently ranked among the top five universities for NSF-funded research and our total annual research funding exceeds $600 million. The Arts A major center for the arts, the campus attracts dozens of nationally and internationally renowned artists each year to its widely acclaimed Krannert Center for the Performing Arts. The university also supports two major museums: the Krannert Art Museum and Kinkead Pavilion; and the Spurlock Museum, a museum of world history and culture. Other major facilities include the multipurpose State Farm Center (16,500 seats); Memorial Stadium (70,000 seats), site of Big Ten Conference football games; and the Activities and Recreation Center (ARC), one of the largest recreational facilities of its kind on a university campus. Undergraduate Education The fundamental promise at Illinois for nearly 150 years has been to provide our undergraduate students with truly transformative educational experiences. Whether these experiences take place in the classroom, in the surrounding community or around the globe, our students leave this campus with the skills, knowledge and the drive to become leaders in their fields and to lead lives of impact in the world. Each year we welcome more than 32,000 undergraduate students across our nine undergraduate divisions – offering nearly 5,000 courses in more than 150 fields of study and awarding about 7,000 new degrees each spring. Pre-eminence *This is how the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign defines pre-eminence: We will be the best at what we do; this is a matter of excellence in achievement. We will have impact locally, nationally and globally through transformational learning experiences and groundbreaking scholarship. We will be recognized by our peers as leaders. We will be visible to the nation and world – this is the leadership expected from a world-class university with a land-grant mission. Quicklinks Calendars Directory Campus Map Email Weather Giving Student Grievances Contact Resources for Current Students Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents Campus Resources The Next 150 Strategic Plan Diversity Resources Emergency Info Land Acknowledgement Statement Organizational Chart University Policies Employment U of I System System Offices UIC UIS U of I Online Illinois Homepage Website Info Copyright Accessibility Privacy Statement and Terms of Use Feedback Illinois Social Media Twitter Facebook Snapchat LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Sina Weibo About Cookies Scroll To Top