Skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Search Enter Keyword, Phrase, or Name Search Website Quicklinks Campus Directory Map Library Give Now Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents About About Links Overview Leadership Facts Research Milestones Nobels & Pulitzers Rankings Campus Tours Related Links: About Calendars Map Campus Directory Admissions Admissions Links Undergraduate Admissions Apply Majors Blogs Virtual Visits Tuition Financial Aid Request Info Contact Us Graduate College Apply Programs & Contacts Funding Related Links: Admissions Student Affairs Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academics Academics Links Academic Programs Colleges & Schools Programs of Study Honors Programs Illinois Online Classes & Registration Course Explorer Register for Class Academic Calendar Transcripts Related Links: Academics Provost Registrar Canvas Compass Library Research Research Links Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation Research News Research Centers Find an Illinois Expert (Illinois Research Connections) Office of Undergraduate Research Research Park Technology Commercialization Corporate Partnership Opportunities Library Related Links: Research Research Calendar Strategic Plan Research Park Outreach Outreach Links Corporate Relations Community U of I Extension 4-H Youth Development Outreach Events Related Links: Outreach Strategic Plan Calendars International International Links Illinois International International Admissions Study Abroad Academic Programs Global Impact International Student Resources International Faculty, Staff, and Scholar Resources International Safety & Security Illinois Global Institute Related Links: International Calendars Student Affairs Arts & Culture Arts & Culture Links College of Fine & Applied Arts College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Inclusion and Intercultural Relations Krannert Center for the Performing Arts Krannert Art Museum Library Special Collections Spurlock Museum Japan House Allerton Park and Retreat Center Illini Union Athletics Athletics Links Fighting Illini Athletics Wheelchair & Adapted Sports Campus Recreation Marching Illini Illini Pride Related Links: Athletics Campus Map Calendars Close Navigation Honors Programs Illinois Honors is an interconnected array of special opportunities for undergraduate students of high ambition and academic achievement. What is Illinois Honors? At Illinois, we offer honors options of several kinds: support for students applying for nationally competitive scholarships; honors work in academic departments; the college-wide James Scholar honors programs; and the community of "Chancellor's Scholars" in the Campus Honors Program. Because graduation requirements for these programs often overlap, it's possible to complete more than one without a great deal of additional course work. Every year, many Illinois students graduate with several kinds of academic distinction. What's Special About Illinois Honors? College students can excel in different ways. Sometimes their special strengths and enthusiasms are brought to life when they find a major. Other students thrive in interdisciplinary seminars and co-curricular activities; in interactions and friendships with distinguished scholars and scientists; in adventurous and intellectually challenging experience abroad; or in independent research, leadership, and service. It's not unusual for Illinois students to reach their own academic "high gear" later than their first semester. Young people on our campus change, and as a cooperating confederation of programs, Illinois Honors can be there for you when you're ready for honors-level work. Your Freshman Honors Experience When you are admitted as a James Scholar or Chancellor's Scholar, your first year will include special opportunities and events with the following objectives: To help build friendships with other students who share a special interest in intellectual adventure and professional growth; To introduce the vast variety of resources and events at Illinois, the worlds of learning and culture just beyond the classroom door. Beyond the Freshman Year The university promotes and supports students applying for nationally competitive awards. The National and International Scholarships Program challenges aspiring scholars to make the most of their time at Illinois and assists applicants for awards such as the Fulbright, Rhodes, and Truman Scholarships in sharing their profiles with selection committees. For further information about these opportunities, please visit the National and International Scholarships Program website. When you continue as a James Scholar or Chancellor's Scholar, you can expect to participate in honors seminars or research experiences offered by your chosen major department or your college. Some of these programs offer study abroad options and numerous co-curricular activities, or internships and field experiences for professional development. Honor Societies The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign recognizes more than 50 independent honor societies. Among the prestigious national honor societies with campus chapters at Illinois are Tau Beta Pi (Engineering), Beta Gamma Sigma (Business), Kappa Delta Pi (Education), Phi Beta Kappa (LAS), Phi Kappa Phi (campus-wide), and the freshman honor societies Alpha Lambda Delta, Gamma Sigma Delta (ACES), and Phi Eta Sigma. Membership in these societies is usually decided in your junior or senior year. For more information, confer with the local representative of the society that offers membership to you, or consult with a dean or academic advisor in your departmental or college office. Dean's List For each fall and spring semester, a Dean's List is compiled and published by each college, recognizing students who have completed on campus a full course-load of traditionally-graded semester-hours, achieving at least a "B" average for that term, and ranking in the top 20% of the class. Additional criteria are established by each college. Honors Upon Graduation Qualifying seniors are eligible for recognition based upon scholastic merit. Cum Laude, Magna Cum Laude, and Summa Cum Laude are citations conferred by the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences for high grade-point averages and completion of an intellectually-challenging curriculum. Honors, High Honors, and Highest Honors are distinctions conferred by the following University of Illinois colleges: Agricultural, Consumer and Environmental Sciences, Applied Life Studies, Business, Media, Engineering, Education, and Fine and Applied Arts. Qualifications for Cum Laude, Honors and higher designations are determined by each college. Also conferred in spring semester, Bronze Tablet honors the top 3% of graduates from each college. These students receive special recognition and regalia at graduation ceremonies, and their names are inscribed on the tablets in the first-floor corridors of the University Library. In addition, many Illinois academic departments award Distinction, High Distinction, or Highest Distinction for the completion of honors-quality work as specified in these curricula. Quicklinks Calendars Directory Campus Map Email Weather Giving Student Grievances Contact Resources for Current Students Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents Campus Resources The Next 150 Strategic Plan Diversity Resources Emergency Info Land Acknowledgement Statement Organizational Chart University Policies Employment U of I System System Offices UIC UIS U of I Online Illinois Homepage Website Info Copyright Accessibility Privacy Statement and Terms of Use Feedback Illinois Social Media Twitter Facebook Snapchat LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Sina Weibo About Cookies Scroll To Top