Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Illuminate About Baylor's Vision, Pro Futuris Illuminate Overview Progress Report - October 2021 Four Pillars Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Five Initiatives Health Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Health and Disease Prevention Business Development and International Trade Human Capital Formation and Education Immigration, Migration, and Human Trafficking Congregational Development Democratic Governance and Economics Culture and Arts Give Light Four Pillars Illuminate Four Pillars Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Chartered by the Republic of Texas in 1845, Baylor University was first located in the village of Independence in Washington County. Each year, the incoming class of students travels as a group to Independence, where four columns remain from one of Baylor's original buildings. These pillars remind all who see them that Baylor's strong foundation, built on the bold vision of its founders, will stand the test of time. As we consider Illuminate, our academic strategic plan, we build upon four pillars that have shaped the University throughout its history. Four Pillars that Are Foundational to Illuminate Christian Environment Our Baptist founders sought to establish an institution of higher learning that would "meet the needs of all ages to come." Baylor University has steadfastly devoted itself for more than 170 years to the pursuit of academic excellence animated by Christian faith. Transformational Education Baylor University provides undergraduate students with a truly transformational education — one in which students develop their leadership potential, explore their faith and beliefs, increase their desire for wisdom, and prepare for service in a diverse and interconnected global society. Research and Scholarship Baylor University aspires to transform lives around the world through ground-breaking research and evidence-based, capacity-building partnerships that address the critical issues of our time and create a foundation for future discoveries. Arts and Athletics The pursuit of nationally recognized programs in human performance finds unique pathways at Baylor through the arts and athletics. Both serve as entry points for the community, alumni and students to feel they are a part of the life of the University. Both also add tremendous value to the University and society beyond the stage, exhibit hall, or field of play. Illuminate Four Pillars About Back Baylor's Vision, Pro Futuris Illuminate Overview Progress Report - October 2021 Four Pillars Back Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Five Initiatives Back Health Back Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Back Health and Disease Prevention Business Development and International Trade Human Capital Formation and Education Immigration, Migration, and Human Trafficking Congregational Development Democratic Governance and Economics Culture and Arts Give Light General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678