Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Illuminate About Baylor's Vision, Pro Futuris Illuminate Overview Progress Report - October 2021 Four Pillars Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Five Initiatives Health Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Health and Disease Prevention Business Development and International Trade Human Capital Formation and Education Immigration, Migration, and Human Trafficking Congregational Development Democratic Governance and Economics Culture and Arts Give Light Data Sciences Illuminate Five Initiatives Data Sciences Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Data Sciences is a rapidly advancing, interdisciplinary field that relies on techniques and theories drawn from machine learning, data mining, scalable data storage, and digital communication, as well as the disciplines of statistics, mathematics, and library sciences. “What I’m studying now won’t appear in textbooks for another ten years, probably, but it’s already being taught to Baylor students because of our involvement in the research.” Dr. Jay Pulliam, W.M. Keck Foundation Professor Of Geophysics, College Of Arts And Sciences Applications of Data Sciences expand the collective approaches supported by these fields to solve problems in diverse areas. The amount of data now routinely produced by life science, physical science, and business domains far outpaces the ability of laboratory researchers, information managers, or other domain experts to manage, collate, or exhaustively analyze available information. To make matters more challenging, domain experts seldom possess the requisite computer infrastructure or intellectual understanding of computational and informatic approaches to effectively analyze their data. Baylor will address the mounting need for dynamic and rapid data analytics that spans virtually all major research emphases on campus. Data Sciences is the field that can drive all others, and investments in this area will significantly strengthen parallel strategic initiatives, most notably Health and Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics. Our investment in Data Sciences will serve as a virtual consolidation of scalable computation hardware, software, support staff, and faculty expertise on campus. Substantial additions to Baylor’s computing infrastructure will be required to securely store, manage, and transfer enormous amounts of sensitive data, and a consolidated model will increase efficiencies, reduce costs, and maximize capabilities or scale. Investment in the libraries enable faculty and student access to state-of-the-art information sources. This support is essential as we prepare our students for careers in this area. As it builds, the initiative will also provide a visible point of contact for faculty, students, and external partners to engage in activities and collaborate with Baylor’s Data Sciences experts. Research, educational, and professional training objectives will be focused initially in three complementary areas: (1) Biomedical Informatics, (2) Cybersecurity, and (3) Business Analytics. Ethical uses of largescale data will be an overarching theme that permeates all facets of work. Faculty and students will interact with producers of data, both on and off campus, and develop new methods to manage and interpret life science data, enterprise scale business data, and data from other domains, as well as establish best practices for data analytics, integration, management, and security. This can bring the opportunity to move into the area of commercialization of technology — the process of taking ideas that emerge, giving them traction in the business community, and, thus, creating job opportunities for students. Further, as innovation drives commercialization efforts, the reputation of the University is enhanced significantly. Commercialization of technology also may serve as a sustainable revenue source for further research growth and University operations. Illuminate Five Initiatives Data Sciences About Back Baylor's Vision, Pro Futuris Illuminate Overview Progress Report - October 2021 Four Pillars Back Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Five Initiatives Back Health Back Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Back Health and Disease Prevention Business Development and International Trade Human Capital Formation and Education Immigration, Migration, and Human Trafficking Congregational Development Democratic Governance and Economics Culture and Arts Give Light General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678