Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Illuminate About Baylor's Vision, Pro Futuris Illuminate Overview Progress Report - October 2021 Four Pillars Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Five Initiatives Health Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Health and Disease Prevention Business Development and International Trade Human Capital Formation and Education Immigration, Migration, and Human Trafficking Congregational Development Democratic Governance and Economics Culture and Arts Give Light Five Signature Academic Initiatives Illuminate Five Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Baylor's growth as a research university is rooted in its enduring Christian commitment. We believe all truth is God’s truth, fully open to inquiry and debate within the free marketplace of ideas that top-tier academic institutions foster. Illuminate calls Baylor faculty to engage in multidisciplinary, “signature” academic initiatives and contribute as mentors to undergraduates and graduate students through high-impact learning experiences. These selected “signature” academic initiatives will amplify and expand our Christian witness and position us for leadership in fields of national importance. By strengthening scholarship, deepening learning, and improving teaching, these initiatives will support our commitment to excellence in undergraduate education and growth in graduate education. Collaboration is vital to finding solutions to the immense challenges facing our world. Baylor’s Illuminate initiatives will be developed around areas where existing collaboration is yielding results and where continued work will galvanize interest among faculty and academic leaders on campus. Five areas of focus have been identified in Illuminate — Health, Data Sciences, Materials Science, Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics, and Baylor in Latin America. These initiatives will enable the creation of centers of research excellence through multidisciplinary scholarship and collaboration with faculty appointments from departments, schools, and external partners. These interdependent initiatives will connect with one another through faculty partnerships, calls for research, and provision of funding. Health Research and Collaboration will span all schools and colleges across the University as we focus on environmental determinants of health, family and community. Data Sciences Data Sciences is a rapidly advancing, interdisciplinary field that relies on techniques and theories drawn from machine learning, data mining, scalable data storage, and digital communication, as well as the disciplines of statistics, mathematics and library sciences. Materials Science Materials Science is a cutting edge field with high market demand for graduates and vast extramural funding. Investments in Materials Science will position Baylor University as a leader in these technologies. Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor University will be a recognized leader in understanding the conditions by which humans, communities, and societies flourish. Baylor in Latin America The Census Bureau projects that by the year 2030, immigration will surpass natural increase as the primary contributor to population growth in the United States. The Baylor in Latin America initiative will position the University to be one of the most extensively engaged faith-based universities in the nation with regard to engagement in the Americas. Illuminate Five Initiatives About Back Baylor's Vision, Pro Futuris Illuminate Overview Progress Report - October 2021 Four Pillars Back Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Five Initiatives Back Health Back Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Back Health and Disease Prevention Business Development and International Trade Human Capital Formation and Education Immigration, Migration, and Human Trafficking Congregational Development Democratic Governance and Economics Culture and Arts Give Light General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678