Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Illuminate About Baylor's Vision, Pro Futuris Illuminate Overview Progress Report - October 2021 Four Pillars Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Five Initiatives Health Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Health and Disease Prevention Business Development and International Trade Human Capital Formation and Education Immigration, Migration, and Human Trafficking Congregational Development Democratic Governance and Economics Culture and Arts Give Light Illuminate Five Initiatives Health Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Health Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics The healthcare industry, as we know and understand it today, is expected to change across numerous dimensions in the near and long term. Even the very definition of what is included in the “industry” is open to debate, as companies not traditionally in the healthcare arena see opportunities to enter into and disrupt the space. The accelerated pace of change can be observed, to date, through vertical integration, mergers, acquisitions, strategic alliances, and outsourcing, to name a few. These changes are driven by cost pressures and inefficiencies in the pursuit of excellent healthcare. Enabled by research in the technology areas of health, Baylor has a distinct role in the dialogue about the future of this industry. These inter- organizational linkages will outpace what we have observed and will involve entities along with value chain within the U.S. and across the globe. With the healthcare industry being described as chaotic, we look for opportunities to participate, in significant ways, in the national and international dialogue in the areas of policy, leadership, law, and ethics. From a policy perspective, our existing assets begin to equip us to participate in regulatory discussions, not only as they relate to technology deployment but also the future of competition. Healthcare executives are addressing just how to pursue their organization’s strategy in the midst of chaos, and, at the same time, are aware of the need to mitigate risk. Both agility and a structure that enables the freedom to take risks challenge these executives daily. Baylor is uniquely positioned to inform state-of-the-art thinking on leadership issues and to equip our students for future challenges. Healthcare reform correspondingly brings changes to laws and regulations at the national, state, and local levels. These laws impact the delivery of healthcare and how different inputs into the healthcare system might change. Our expertise in healthcare law enables us to influence and engage professors and students in the dialogue. Healthcare ethics, also known as bioethics, focuses on the moral principles, beliefs, and values associated with different healthcare choices. Our Christian commitment means we need to engage in dialogue and help shape thinking about healthcare ethics. We seek to engage an interdisciplinary group of scholars in a wide variety of intellectual activities, including teaching, external programming, and health services research. We will create and support an interdisciplinary environment for discovery, learning, and engagement and are committed to providing quality academic training through which evidence-based research practices and innovation are promoted and emphasized. We will also expand a commitment to health services research on issues that directly impact the lives of millions of people worldwide. Programs will be developed that attract and prepare undergraduate and graduate students for professions dedicated to the improvement of health, human behavior, and quality of life across a diversity of constituencies and communities. Additionally, we will pursue research that discovers new ideas, advances knowledge with novel questions and is responsive to ever-changing conditions of health, human sciences and quality of life. Illuminate Five Initiatives Health Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics About Back Baylor's Vision, Pro Futuris Illuminate Overview Progress Report - October 2021 Four Pillars Back Christian Environment Transformational Education Research and Scholarship Arts and Athletics Five Initiatives Back Health Back Environmental Determinants Family and Community Determinants Biomedical Research Health Policy, Law, Leadership and Ethics Undergraduate Health and Medical Education Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership, and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Back Health and Disease Prevention Business Development and International Trade Human Capital Formation and Education Immigration, Migration, and Human Trafficking Congregational Development Democratic Governance and Economics Culture and Arts Give Light General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678