Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences The Institute for Leadership Studies myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Academics Select to follow link Degrees Select to follow link Undergraduate Studies Select to follow link Leadership Studies Minor Select to follow link Course of Study Electives Practicum Advising Apply Leadership Engagement Certificate Select to follow link Requirements Register Course Reflection Experiences Final Reflection Forms What's Next? Online Leadership Strategies and Applications Certificate Graduate Studies Select to follow link Graduate Certificate in Leadership Studies Select to follow link Admission to Graduate Certificate Degree Requirements for Graduate Certificate MA in Leadership in Diversity & Inclusion Select to follow link Overview of MA Admission to MA Degree Requirements for MA Graduate Student Resources Courses Advising Study Abroad Programs Select to follow link Kansas Women's Leadership Institute Empowerment, Gender, and Leadership Admission People Select to follow link Institute Staff Academic Staff Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Alumni & Friends Testimonials Resources Giving Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences The Institute for Leadership Studies Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Institute for Leadership Studies Creating capacity for thriving in the face of challenge, conflict, and change. Learn more about our mission Announcements Summer Course Alert! Are you interested in taking a summer course? Want to expand your leadership capacity? Consider taking LDST 200 this summer from June 7th to July 1st. If you are not planning on taking any summer courses but are interested in this course, we will be offering it this fall 2022. LDST 200 Summer Course Option Institute for Leadership Studies In the Institute for Leadership Studies we work in "creating the capacity for Jayhawks to thrive in the face of challenge, conflict, and change!" ILS Mission Undergraduate Students Hello undergraduate students! Do you want to add a minor or certificate to your degree? Check out our Leadership Studies Minor and Leadership Studies Certificate. Both programs offer a variety of courses and leadership opportunities. Find out more about our undergraduate student options Book Recommendations Happy Summer! Here are four books we love in the Institute for Leadership Studies and are reading in 2022. ILS 2022 Book Recommendations See Yourself The ILS is the interdisciplinary academic home for leadership studies at KU that support's KU's mission of educating students who can effectively engage in the process of leadership with innovative, interdisciplinary academic programs. Through the ILS these academic programs are collaboratively designed to educate and prepare students to make a difference from where they are with what they have, developing the courage and leadership skills to ignite positive change. Alumni & Friends Testimonials Interested in Leadership Studies? Learn more about our Undergraduate and Graduate programs and schedule a meeting with an advisor. Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Graduate Studies Advising Advising Meet Leonor Ramos-Salamanca A senior from Johnson majoring in psychology. While at KU, she met individuals who motivated and inspired her to set goals that go beyond her own expectations. Learn more about Leonor HAWKS to WATCH: Kelly Houghteling Deputy Town Administrator, Kelly Houghteling shares with us her exciting story. Check out her story Leadership Studies Degrees and Programs the Leadership Studies Minor the Leadership Engagement Certificate the Graduate Certificate in Leadership Studies the Kansas Women's Leadership Institute the Empowerment, Gender, and Leadership (EGL) Program Study Abroad - Global Women's Leadership in India Malott Hall, Room 2010 1251 Wescoe Hall Drive Lawrence, KS 66045 leadershipstudies@ku.edu 785-864-8207 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Advising Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Kansas Women's Leadership Institute Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.