Skip to content Islamic Legal Studies at Harvard Law School A Focus on Islamic Law Faculty Profiles Harvard Law School has a number of faculty members with academic pursuits and scholarship in the field of Islamic Law. Noah Feldman Noah Feldman specializes in constitutional studies, with particular emphasis on the relationship between law and religion, constitutional design, and the history of legal theory. Felix Frankfurter Professor of Law at Harvard Law School, he is also a Senior Fellow of the Society of Fellows at Harvard and Director of the Julis-Rabinowitz Program on Jewish and Israeli Law. In 2003 he served as senior constitutional advisor to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq, and subsequently advised members of the Iraqi Governing Council on the drafting of the Transitional Administrative Law or interim constitution. Naz K. Modirzadeh Naz K. Modirzadeh is the founding Director of the Harvard Law School Program on International Law and Armed Conflict (HLS PILAC). In May 2016, she was appointed as a Professor of Practice at Harvard Law School. At HLS PILAC, Modirzadeh is responsible for overall direction of the Program, contributing to its cutting-edge research initiatives and briefing senior decision-makers. Intisar A. Rabb Intisar A. Rabb, a leading expert on Islamic Law and legal history, joined the faculty of Harvard Law School on January 1, 2014 as Professor of Law and Faculty Director of the Program in Islamic Law. Rabb most recently was associate professor of Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies and Law at New York University School of Law, where she held a joint appointment at the NYU Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies Department and the NYU School of Law. Kristen A. Stilt Kristen A. Stilt is Professor of Law and also Faculty Director of the Animal Law & Policy Program and Director of the Program on Law and Society in the Muslim World. Prior to coming to HLS, Stilt was Harry R. Horrow Professor in International Law at Northwestern Law School and Professor of History at Northwestern University. Stilt’s research focuses on Islamic law and society in both historical and contemporary contexts. Islamic Legal Studies, Proudly powered by WordPress.