Jump to main content User menu Contact Us File a Report Search form Search Main menu About Our Commitment to Diversity Demographics Reports & Webinars Bias Annual Report Diversity Annual Report Who We Are & What We Do Initiatives Key Initiatives Academic Climate and Inclusion Inclusion Resources College Access & Success Combating Racism Diversity-Related Professional Development Funding Opportunities HBCU/MSI Partnerships History and Sense of Place Strategic Plans Supplier Diversity Building Community Campus Conversations Faculty & Graduate Student Resources Native American & Indigenous Inclusion Land Acknowledgements Transgender Inclusivity Community & Resources Advocate & Learn Increase Understanding Lead a Diverse Workforce Be an Ally Prevent Harassment Make Your Voice Heard Manage Conflict Inclusive Community Campus Centers & Offices Employee Networks Community Outreach Student Groups Alumni Groups Addressing Concerns Bias, Discrimination, Harassment Electronic and Online Attacks and Harassment Online Harassment Resources Sexual Misconduct Disability & Accessibility Freedom of Expression Equal Opportunity Step by Step Process Step 1: Who do I talk to? Step 2: What options do I have? Step 3: What to expect next Policies FAQs Free Expression and Inclusivity Retaliation News & Events News Events Equity, Inclusion and COVID-19 Home › Addressing Concerns › Policies › Policy on Digital Accessibility Main menu: sub-menu items Bias, Discrimination, Harassment Sexual Misconduct Disability & Accessibility Freedom of Expression Equal Opportunity Step by Step Process Policies FAQs Free Expression and Inclusivity Retaliation Policy on Digital Accessibility January 2019 Princeton University is committed to providing access to all individuals under the terms of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Section 504) and applicable state laws. The University’s compliance with applicable disability laws is implemented in the context of the University’s Policy on Disability and Accessibility and the broader Policy on Discrimination and/or Harassment and its accompanying FAQs. The University is committed to taking reasonable measures to support the accessibility of its digital resources. Consistent with this commitment, this policy provides guidance and best practices for University academic and administrative units to enhance the accessibility of these media. The level of access afforded may depend on a number of factors, including the nature of the request, the type of content sought to be made accessible, the user’s affiliation with the University (e.g., enrolled student versus patron), the individual’s disability, possible accommodation alternatives and the resources that may be available to address the need. This policy applies to University digital technology broadly used by students, employees and/or the public to carry out or participate in core educational or administrative activities of the University. Individual webpages published by students, employees or non-university organizations that are within the University’s domain but do not conduct core University-related business are outside the scope of this policy. I. The University’s ADA/Section 504 Coordinator The Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity in the Office of the Provost is responsible for coordinating the University’s compliance with the ADA and Section 504, and serves as the University ADA and Section 504 Coordinator (“University Coordinator”). In this capacity, the University Coordinator, or a designee as appropriate, partners with the Office of Information Technology to promote digital accessibility for University constituents, campus visitors and other users of its digital resources. The University Coordinator’s contact information is as follows: Michele Minter Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity 204B Nassau Hall Princeton, New Jersey 08544 609-258-6110 mminter@princeton.edu The Office of Information Technology’s contact information is as follows: Jay Dominick Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer 245A 701 Carnegie Center Princeton, New Jersey 08540 609-258-5601 jdominick@princeton.edu II. Definitions Accessibility: The concept that an individual with a disability is able to independently access and use a product or system, including with the help of assistive technologies. Accommodation: A modification or provision made for an individual with a disability to provide access or enable them to perform the essential functions of a role. The University provides reasonable accommodations in a timely manner to individuals with disabilities, unless providing the accommodation would fundamentally alter the nature of the goods, services or operations of the University or would result in an undue burden (i.e., a significant difficulty or expense). III. Requesting an Accommodation If academic and administrative units undertake the initiative to promote digital accessibility, ideally individuals with disabilities will not typically need to seek alternate access. However, with preexisting websites, the University encourages units to post information on their homepages directing users to the Office of Information Technology where accessibility requests can be made. Students or employees may request reasonable accommodations. For information regarding the process for requesting accommodations, see the Policy on Disability and Accessibility. IV. Digital Accessibility Guidance for Academic and Administrative Units Academic and administrative units conducting core educational or administrative activities are strongly encouraged to align web content with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 Level AA (WCAG 2.0 AA) to promote digital accessibility for students, employees and/or the public. Units seeking information, assistance and/or training regarding digital accessibility should consult the User Experience Office. Guidelines for University units on website accessibility, managing multimedia content, purchasing accessible information technology (IT) products, and accessible use of social media can be found below. Academic and administrative units are encouraged to participate in ongoing training efforts to learn how to create accessible websites and web content, convert documents and presentations to accessible formats, and promote accessible instruction. To learn more about these opportunities, visit the Employee Learning Center. V. Related Policies and Guidelines Additional policies and guidelines related to this policy are listed below: Policy on Disability and Accessibility Acceptable Use Policy University Website Requirements Website Accessibility Guidelines Social Media Accessibility Guidelines IT Procurement Accessibility Guidelines Video Accessibility Guidelines VI. Additional Contacts Digital Accessibility accessibility@princeton.edu OIT Support and Operations Center 609-258-4357 (8-HELP) helpdesk@princeton.edu Many voices, one future An inclusive Princeton © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University