Jump to main content User menu Contact Us File a Report Search form Search Main menu About Our Commitment to Diversity Demographics Reports & Webinars Bias Annual Report Diversity Annual Report Who We Are & What We Do Initiatives Key Initiatives Academic Climate and Inclusion Inclusion Resources College Access & Success Combating Racism Diversity-Related Professional Development Funding Opportunities HBCU/MSI Partnerships History and Sense of Place Strategic Plans Supplier Diversity Building Community Campus Conversations Faculty & Graduate Student Resources Native American & Indigenous Inclusion Land Acknowledgements Transgender Inclusivity Community & Resources Advocate & Learn Increase Understanding Lead a Diverse Workforce Be an Ally Prevent Harassment Make Your Voice Heard Manage Conflict Inclusive Community Campus Centers & Offices Employee Networks Community Outreach Student Groups Alumni Groups Addressing Concerns Bias, Discrimination, Harassment Electronic and Online Attacks and Harassment Online Harassment Resources Sexual Misconduct Disability & Accessibility Freedom of Expression Equal Opportunity Step by Step Process Step 1: Who do I talk to? Step 2: What options do I have? Step 3: What to expect next Policies FAQs Free Expression and Inclusivity Retaliation News & Events News Events Equity, Inclusion and COVID-19 Home › Addressing Concerns › Freedom of Expression Main menu: sub-menu items Bias, Discrimination, Harassment Sexual Misconduct Disability & Accessibility Freedom of Expression Equal Opportunity Step by Step Process Policies FAQs Free Expression and Inclusivity Retaliation Freedom of Expression “We are in an era when many people mistakenly treat free speech and inclusivity as competing values. Universities must nevertheless remain steadfastly devoted to both free speech and inclusivity. We need the benefit of multiple voices and perspectives, and we need real engagement among them…. The freedom of speech allows not only for genteel conversation but also for harsh language, impassioned argument, and provocative rhetoric. Of course, it also permits all of us to criticize statements that we find offensive or irresponsible, even if that speech is fully protected from punishment or discipline.” – President Christopher L. Eisgruber, "Why Mutual Respect Makes Free Speech Better", July 2020. Princeton supports the free and open exchange of ideas among our community members and believes that free speech is essential to university life. Our Statement on Freedom of Expression and Policy on the Classroom Learning Environment at section V.I in the Rules and Procedures of the Faculty explains Princeton’s commitment to free speech and protections for campus community members engaging in academic inquiry, peaceful protest, ordinary conversation, and online discussion. Individuals have broad latitude to exercise their free speech, including the right to engage in Protests, Demonstrations, and Peaceful Dissent. See also University Sponsorship and/or Endorsement of Speakers and Programs. We recognize that some situations involving offensive speech and expression can be challenging. The FAQs on the Intersection of Freedom of Expression and Inclusivity provides insights into the University’s approach to responding to these types of incidents. In limited instances, the University may restrict expression that violates the law, falsely defames a specific individual, or constitutes a genuine threat or harassment. Incidents of harassing verbal or physical conduct that implicate an individual’s protected identity characteristics (e.g., race, gender, sexual orientation, disability, etc.) may be covered by the University’s Policy on Discrimination and/or Harassment. To learn more, visit our FAQs on Discrimination and/or Harassment. Contact Cheri Burgess Cheri Burgess Director for Institutional Equity and Equal Employment Opportunity Phone: 609-258-8504 Email: clawson@princeton.edu Office: Office of the Provost, 204B Nassau Hall Resources Free Expression and Inclusivity FAQ Policy on Discrimination and/or Harassment Statement on Freedom of Expression Related Information Annual Bias Report FAQs Definitions Electronic and Online Harassment Policies Rights, Rules, Responsibilities Many voices, one future An inclusive Princeton © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University