Menu Search Search Institutional Diversity and Inclusion About Education Campus Resources Awards & Programs Research & Grants Hiring & Recruiting Events News SAVE THE DATE! MSU Juneteenth Celebration, June 17 Join the second annual Michigan State University Juneteenth Celebration on Friday, June 17, 2022, from 5-9 p.m. at the Breslin Center. RVSP DEI Strategic Theme Subcommittee Vice President Jabbar R. Bennett, Ph.D., provides an update on the diversity, equity and inclusion implementation planning to set Michigan State University on a course to formulate and deliver actionable plans in the coming year. Read the letter MSU selects multicultural center site Following a feasibility study and recommendations of the Multicultural Center Planning Committee, in April 2022, Michigan State University selected the location on the northeast corner of North Shaw and Farm lanes for building the new multicultural center. Read about the site selection Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategic Plan Michigan State University released its Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Steering Committee Plan, culminating 18 months of review, stakeholder input and development. The plan was designed as a framework of recommendations to improve the culture around DEI and collaborate with overall strategic planning efforts across the university. Learn more about the plan Featured Media & Resources News Updates Campus Resources & Programs Annual Report on Diversity and Inclusion Building Inclusive Communities Diversity Research Network Awards & Programs Hiring & Recruitment Resources MSU Hiring Procedures Hiring and Recruiting Conflict of Interest in Employment Notice on Non-Discrimination External Links Report Discrimination Sign up for News Updates Subscribe Facebook Twitter YouTube (517) 353-4563 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University