Jump to main content User menu Contact Us File a Report Search form Search Main menu About Our Commitment to Diversity Demographics Reports & Webinars Bias Annual Report Diversity Annual Report Who We Are & What We Do Initiatives Key Initiatives Academic Climate and Inclusion Inclusion Resources College Access & Success Combating Racism Diversity-Related Professional Development Funding Opportunities HBCU/MSI Partnerships History and Sense of Place Strategic Plans Supplier Diversity Building Community Campus Conversations Faculty & Graduate Student Resources Native American & Indigenous Inclusion Land Acknowledgements Transgender Inclusivity Community & Resources Advocate & Learn Increase Understanding Lead a Diverse Workforce Be an Ally Prevent Harassment Make Your Voice Heard Manage Conflict Inclusive Community Campus Centers & Offices Employee Networks Community Outreach Student Groups Alumni Groups Addressing Concerns Bias, Discrimination, Harassment Electronic and Online Attacks and Harassment Online Harassment Resources Sexual Misconduct Disability & Accessibility Freedom of Expression Equal Opportunity Step by Step Process Step 1: Who do I talk to? Step 2: What options do I have? Step 3: What to expect next Policies FAQs Free Expression and Inclusivity Retaliation News & Events News Events Equity, Inclusion and COVID-19 Inclusive Princeton Our commitment to the campus community is to bring renewed energy to structural change that makes Princeton more demographically diverse, more inclusive and accessible, more accountable, and more self-aware. We pledge to bring all our resources to this sustained challenge – including funding, expertise, policies and best practices, advocacy, training, data, and collaboration. We will continue to do everything that we can to protect our campus community from manifestations of bias, discrimination, harassment and sexual misconduct. We will do our work in collaboration with you, our campus community. We would like to hear from you. Connect with us - your input, feedback, and personal experiences are essential. IED and COVID-19 The Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity remains open and is functioning remotely at this time. Anyone impacted by bias, discrimination and/or harassment is encouraged to contact our office to make a report and/or obtain assistance. Resources continue to be available and investigations will be conducted remotely. As well, the Policy on Discrimination and/or Harassment continues to apply to behaviors that occur in person between members of the University community as well as to online, virtual, and electronic interactions. Fighting Racial Inequity Princeton University is committed to using its scholarly, administrative and community resources to help create a more racially just and equal society. Learn more about our plans and activities on our racial equity website. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ Princeton Offices across campus are committed to ensuring a diverse, equitable, and inclusive learning and working environment at Princeton. Get to know DEI @PU (.pdf) Spotlight View the 2020-21 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Annual Report View the 2020 - 2021 Annual Bias Report Walking Princeton's (In)Visible History Featured News Statement Regarding Buffalo Shooting President Eisgruber's Blog regarding the shooting in Buffalo, NY Read more > View All News | More RSS feeds Policies Discrimination & Harassment Disability & Accessibility Sexual Misconduct & Title IX Equal Opportunity Freedom of Expression Resources Davis Center Immigration Updates Campus Accessibility Map (.pdf) Employee Networks Digital Accessibility AccessAbility Center Initiatives Diversity Strategic Plans Campus Conversations Transgender Inclusivity on Campus Academic Climate and Inclusion College Access & Success News Princeton marks more than 50 years of kosher dining on campus For more than 50 years, Princeton’s kosher dining hall has served as a ... Read more > Statement Regarding Buffalo Shooting President Eisgruber's Blog regarding the shooting in Buffalo, NY Read more > Yeh College will become Princeton’s seventh residential college James Yeh ’87 and his wife, Jaimie Yeh, have made a major gift in the Venture Forward campaign,... Read more > View All News | More RSS feeds Events No upcoming events found. View All Events Many voices, one future An inclusive Princeton © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University