Skip to main content Inclusive Excellence navigation menu About Our Team Our Initiatives OIE Blog Newsletter University Messages Contact Us Groups Commission on Diversity & Inclusion First Generation Initiative Inclusive Physical and Virtual Campus LGBTQIA+ Network Multicultural Staff & Faculty Network PMSAC Race, Bias and Equity Initiative Womxn of Color Network Data + Planning University Diversity Plans Employee Climate Survey CSU Demographics Interactive Diversity Training Map Trainings Employee DEI Trainings Student DEI Trainings DEI Competencies Resources Bias Reporting Website Continuing Education Resources Principles of Community Pronoun Statement Rams Read Religious Accommodations Student Activism Symposium 2020 Symposium Recordings Submit a Proposal Student Diversity Offices Asian Pacific American Cultural Center Black/African American Cultural Center El Centro Pride Resource Center Native American Cultural Center Student Disability Center Students Empowering & Engaging in Dialogue Women and Gender Advocacy Center Diversity Module On Buffalo, Dallas and Laguna Woods It is with deep sadness that I write to you today as all of us attempt to process the hate-fueled, racist, deadly shootings that took place over the weekend in Buffalo, Dallas, and Laguna Woods. These seemingly endless, violent assaults driven by racist vitriol cause immense, unbearable pain and fear unacceptable for a compassionate society that values all people, and where all people have a right to live and thrive. On behalf of the CSU community, I offer my sincerest condolences to the families who lost loved ones, those who were injured, and the immediately impacted communities. Our CSU Division of Student Affairs has been contacting students from impacted areas who may have been affected by this senseless violence. It pains me that we continue to bear witness to this type of domestic terrorism. While we know that these most recent racist attacks particularly impact members of the African-American, Asian, and Asian-American communities, we are equally certain that we are a compassionate CSU community that fully feels the pain for anyone targeted by cruel rampages based on one’s identity. We stand with the innocent people – human beings who were merely doing everyday tasks like running errands, attending a church luncheon, and getting their hair done. Their lives and communities have been irrevocably impacted by these horrific events. Now, more than ever, it is imperative that we continue to live up to our own Principles of Community. We must embrace one another and vow to work tirelessly to ensure that we have a safe and respectful campus that values inclusiveness and encourages different voices to be heard. We have to be more determined and vigilant in condemning all forms of racism and acts of hate, and relentless in our commitment to learn from, listen to, and respect the humanity of one another – a responsibility we all share as members of a university community. We can ill afford, as a campus, as a state, and as a nation, to let hatred, bigotry, and violence become our defining characteristics. That is not and never will be who we are at Colorado State University. Let’s strive together to model what it means to work, live, and learn as a true diverse, vibrant community. So, today, as we mourn these profound losses, please take a personal moment of silence to remember those whom we have lost or who have been harmed, reflect upon everything and everyone for which we are grateful, and persist in hoping and working for justice and healing. *CSU offers resources to those who may need support: Resources for students – https://studentaffairs.colostate.edu/resource/students/student-support/ Resources for employees – https://safety.colostate.edu/support-and-counseling-services/ In hope, Kauline Kauline Cipriani, Vice President for Inclusive Excellence University will observe Juneteenth by closing on June 20 Colorado State University will officially begin to observe Juneteenth on Monday, June 20. Earlier this month, a Colorado state bill signed into law officially established Juneteenth—June 19—as a legal state holiday in Colorado. Because Juneteenth falls on a Sunday this year, our university will observe Juneteenth by closing on Monday, June 20. Faculty and staff who are required to work on Monday, June 20, 2022 should be given an alternative paid day off in May or June, before the end of the fiscal year. On June 19, 1865, as the Civil War came to an end, Union soldiers arrived in Galveston, Texas, to announce that all enslaved people had been freed. Enslaved Texans were the last people within the Confederacy to officially learn of their freedom – two years after President Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation in 1863. Juneteenth – also sometimes called Freedom Day or Emancipation Day – has since commemorated that historic occasion, but until now has not been recognized as an official Colorado holiday. With this legislation – 157 years later – Juneteenth becomes Colorado’s 11th paid holiday. Celebrating Juneteenth also reflects our ongoing effort to cultivate a thriving, inclusive community across our institution. This is a celebration of our community. Juneteenth provides our Colorado State University community an opportunity to mark this important date in United States history by acknowledging our country’s painful past of slavery, and reflecting upon and honoring the countless ways our diverse students, faculty and staff bring a rich heritage and vital perspective to our university, our community, and our country. We invite you to learn more about university and regional activities celebrating Juneteenth and other ways you can observe and support this historic first holiday for Colorado. Sincerely, Joyce McConnell President Kauline Cipriani Vice President for Inclusive Excellence Robyn Fergus Vice President for Human Resources Employee DEI Trainings Explore Employee Climate Survey Results Explore Diversity Symposium Recordings Explore CSU Pronoun Statement Explore Student Diversity Offices Explore Office of Inclusive Excellence Blog Highlighting recent articles from the OIE blog Evening With A Holocaust Survivor March 1, 2022 With grief and gratitude: celebrating CSU’s own Mary Ontiveros February 21, 2022 Black History Month at CSU February 17, 2022 Black Excellence Personified: Remembering Black Wall Street February 17, 2022 International Holocaust Remembrance Day January 27, 2022 Hungry to Learn Film & Food Insecurity at CSU Panel Discussion January 2, 2022 Inclusive Excellence-Related Events Nov. 6-13: Veterans Week 2021 Learn More » Oct. 27: Joshua Whitehead Keynote Learn More » Oct. 22-26: Perspectives and Support in Moving Towards Inclusivity in Science Learn More » Oct. 28: Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Conference Learn More » inclusiveexcellence@colostate.edu Phone: (970) 491-3030 Fax: (970) 492-4082 645 South Shields Street Fort Collins, CO 80523-1060 Employee Climate Survey DEI Employee Trainings Principles of Community Diversity Symposium Inclusive Excellence Newsletter Covid-19 Information Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement © 2022 Colorado State University