Skip to content Corporate & International Contracting/ Exchange Agreements Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Twitter Home About Us Success Stories Putting Georgia Tech innovations to work in the world Meet Our Team Helping you develop innovations Contact Us Answering your questions and finding the information you need Corporate Contracting <none> Sponsoring Research at Georgia Tech is Easy Streamlined-process 4 simplified contracts Straightforward IP terms Learn more about our Contract Continuum for Sponsored Research International Contracting Exchange Agreements Non-Disclosure Material Transfer Data Use (coming soon) Researcher Toolkit Sponsored Research Exchange Agreements Related Sites Office of Sponsored Programs Technology Licensing Translational Research Grants GRA-Venture Lab Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Biolocity Translational Programs Contact Us Search Search form Search this site You are here: GT Home Researcher Toolkit We have everything you need to secure funding for your research. Access the Researcher Toolkit. Corporate Contracting Georgia Tech seeks R&D collaborators who share our vision for creating the next generation of innovative technologies. Learn more about sponsoring research at Georgia Tech. About Us Collaborative discovery is the hallmark of what we do. Cross-disciplinary research is the heart of our success. Learn more about how we support corporate-university partnerships. Home Who We Are Georgia Tech's mission is to encourage innovation, advance knowledge, and serve the public interest. We help companies around the world establish long-lasting, mutually beneficial university-corporate partnerships. Who We Are Georgia Tech's mission is to encourage innovation, advance knowledge, and serve the public interest. We help companies around the world establish long-lasting, mutually beneficial university-corporate partnerships: Industry Contracting: Georgia Tech seeks R&D collaborators who share our vision for creating the next generation of innovative technologies. Researcher Toolkit: We have everything you need to secure funding for your research. About Us: Collaborative discovery is the hallmark of what we do. Cross-disciplinary research is the heart of our success. QUICK LINKS Corporate Contracting International Contracting Exchange Agreements Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events Visitor Resources Campus Visits Visitor Parking Information Directions to Campus GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Service and Support Emergency Information / GTENS Alerts EthicsPoint Hotline Title IX / Sexual Misconduct Combating Human Trafficking Research Support Executive Vice President of Research Technology Licensing Office of Sponsored Programs GTRC and GTARC Office of Research Integrity Assurance Georgia Tech Policy Library Grants and Contracts Accounting Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2) Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology