Skip to content Corporate & International Contracting/ Exchange Agreements Home About Us Success Stories Putting Georgia Tech innovations to work in the world Meet Our Team Helping you develop innovations Contact Us Answering your questions and finding the information you need Corporate Contracting <none> Sponsoring Research at Georgia Tech is Easy Streamlined-process 4 simplified contracts Straightforward IP terms Learn more about our Contract Continuum for Sponsored Research International Contracting Exchange Agreements Non-Disclosure Material Transfer Data Use (coming soon) Researcher Toolkit Sponsored Research Exchange Agreements Related Sites Office of Sponsored Programs Technology Licensing Translational Research Grants GRA-Venture Lab Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Biolocity Translational Programs Contact Us Search Search form Search this site About Us Meet Our Team The goal of the Corporate & International Contracting/Exchange Agreements's team is to provide Georgia Tech’s research community and collaborators with the support and resources they need to continue to develop breakthrough innovations.  Every member of our team is dedicated to achieving this goal. Visit our Contact Us page to connect with them. Corporate and International Contracting | Exchange Agreements | Executive Director Corporate and International Contracting Work with U.S. corporations and organizations based in foreign countries—as well as Georgia Tech researchers—to develop sponsored research agreements along the Contract Continuum Sophia L. Herbert-Peterson, JD > Director sophia.herbertpeterson@industry.gatech.edu Sophia Herbert-Peterson is the director of corporate contracting and is responsible for managing and training the contracting team, leading and facilitating complex transactions with sponsors, and developing and implementing policies and procedures in support of the research collaboration process. Prior to joining Georgia Tech in 2006, Sophia served as a law clerk for the Honorable Earl B. Gilliam in the southern district of California. She also practiced at a law firm in Atlanta prior to serving as in-house counsel for two Fortune 500 corporations. Sophia holds a BA in international studies and Spanish literature from Manhattan College and a JD from the University of Pennsylvania Law School. Jarrett R. Ellis, MEd, JD > Associate Director Jarrett.Ellis@industry.gatech.edu Jarrett Ellis is responsible for negotiating sponsored research agreements, managing strategic relationships with collaborating organizations, supervising industry contracts administration, and team training. Before joining Georgia Tech Research Corp., Jarrett practiced law at Alston & Bird, LLP, where he represented and advised corporate clients in strategic matters including governance, securities transactions, mergers and acquisitions, technology sales and licensing, and data privacy and security. He has a degree in English literature from Oral Roberts University and a master’s degree and a Juris Doctor degree from Georgia State University. Amelia Parr, JD > Senior Contracting Officer amelia.parr@industry.gatech.edu Amelia Parr is a senior contracting officer responsible for the negotiation and administration of sponsored research agreements. She has a legal background and previously worked in private practice mass tort litigation before joining Georgia Tech Research Corp. in 2016. Amelia holds a BFA from Winthrop University and a JD from Emory University, with a certificate in transactional law. Yatri Amin, JD > Contracting Officer yamin3@gatech.edu Yatri Amin is a contracting officer and is responsible for projects and proposals from all international sponsors. Her previous experience working at a law firm, in industry, and in the public sector has shaped her unique approach to contractual negotiations. Yatri has a degree in international affairs from the University of Georgia and a joint JD/MA from The American University in Washington, D.C. Yathurshi (Yadu) Haase, JD > Contracting Officer yadu.haase@industry.gatech.edu Yathurshi (Yadu) Haase is a contracting officer on the Corporate and International Contracting team. She has a legal background and previously worked in real estate for a telecommunications firm before joining Georgia Tech in 2018. Yadu earned her JD in 2016 from Georgia State University College of Law, and she holds a bachelor of science in psychology with a minor in religion from the University of Georgia. Jennifer Lyle, JD > Contracting Officer jennifer.lyle@industry.gatech.edu Jennifer Lyle is responsible for negotiating research agreements with private foundation sponsors and also manages the Ford Alliance on behalf of Geogia Tech Research Corp. She has a legal background specializing in corporate law and previously worked on mergers and acquisitions at a large Atlanta law firm. Jennifer has a bachelor of business administration degree from Emory University as well as a J.D., with honors, from the Emory University School of Law. Chase McCallum, JD > Contracting Officer chase.mccallum@gtrc.gatech.edu Chase McCallum is a contracting officer on the Corporate and International Contracting team. His career has included work in private law practice and clerkships for four judges in superior courts of Georgia. Chase holds a JD as well as undergraduate double majors completed at the University of Georgia. Tara Barker > Contracting Specialist tara.barker@industry.gatech.edu Tara Barker is a contracting specialist responsible for contracts administration in the Corporate and International Contracting group. Tara has a corporate background and previously worked in the banking and hospitality industries before joining Georgia Tech in 2019. Tara has a business degree from St. Andrew’s University. Shari Brothers > Contracting Specialist shari.brothers@industry.gatech.edu Shari is a contracting specialist on the Corporate and International Contracting team. She has an inventory and accounting background and worked in the manufacturing industry for eight years prior to joining Georgia Tech. Shari has a bachelor’s degree from the University of Georgia. Exchange Agreements Establish agreements that protect Georgia Tech intellectual property while researchers work with collaborators, including Nondisclosure Agreements (NDAs), Material Transfer Agreements (MTAs), and Data Usage Agreements (DUAs) Kendall Crosby, JD > Associate Director kendall.crosby@industry.gatech.edu Kendall Crosby is associate director for the Exchange Agreements team. Kendall has a JD from the University of Georgia School of Law and an undergraduate degree in English from the State University of New York at Buffalo. Lauren Beebe, JD > Contracting Officer lauren.beebe@industry.gatech.edu Lauren Beebe is a contracting officer on the Exchange Agreements team. Lauren has an undergraduate degree in business management and operations from Georgia State University. She earned a Juris Doctor from Florida Coastal School of Law. Christopher Brown, JD > Contracting Officer christopher.brown@industry.gatech.edu Christopher Brown is a contracting officer with the Exchange Agreements team. He has an undergraduate degree in political science from Kennesaw State University. He earned a Juris Doctor from the University of Tennessee College of Law. Lara Erdelyan, JD > Contracting Officer lara.erdelyan@industry.gatech.edu Lara Erdelyan is a contracting officer on the Exchange Agreements team. Lara has an undergraduate degree in Business Administration from Georgia Southern University. She earned a Juris Doctor from the University of Georgia School of Law. Amanda Lankford, MPH > Contracting Officer amanda.lankford@industry.gatech.edu Amanda Lankford is a contracting officer with the Exchange Agreements team. She has an undergraduate degree in biology from Georgia Tech and a master’s degree in public health from Emory University. Alison Peffer, JD > Contracting Officer alison.peffer@industry.gatech.edu Alison Peffer is a contracting officer on the Exchange Agreements team. Alison studied political science and government at the University of Louisville. She earned a Juris Doctor and a masters in health administration from the University of Kentucky. Lauretta Zhao, JD > Contracting Officer lauretta.zhao@gtrc.gatech.edu Lauretta is a Contracting Officer on the Exchange Agreements team. Lauretta has an undergraduate degree in Business Administration from Georgia Tech and earned a Juris Doctor from the University of Georgia. Marisela Bravo > Contracting Specialist marisela.bravo@industry.gatech.edu Marisela Bravo manages incoming requests for Non-Disclosure Agreements, Material Transfer Agreements and Data Use Agreements. Marisela brings more than a decade of experience in state and federal grants and contracts administration to her role and holds a bachelor's degree from Florida State University. Executive Director Kevin Wozniak, MBA, RTTP > Executive Director Kevin.Wozniak@industry.gatech.edu As head of the Office of Corporate & International Contracting/Exchange Agreements, Kevin Wozniak is responsible for establishing meaningful collaborations through the negotiation of sponsored research agreements and other various agreements with companies throughout the world. He has worked in the university technology transfer field since 1999, helping to turn promising scientific ideas into useful products and companies. Prior to entering a career in academia, he worked as a manufacturing engineer in the automotive industry, designing assembly systems for new vehicles. He is a member of and has served in board positions for the Association of University Technology Managers as well as the Council of Government Relations. Morganne Norwood > Assistant to the Executive Director morganne.norwood@industry.gatech.edu Morganne Norwood is the assistant to the executive director. She holds a bachelor's degree in business administration from the University of Alabama. Morganne brings previous higher education experience to her role, including the Office of the Provost at Emory University. Success Stories Contact Us Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events Visitor Resources Campus Visits Visitor Parking Information Directions to Campus GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Service and Support Emergency Information / GTENS Alerts EthicsPoint Hotline Title IX / Sexual Misconduct Combating Human Trafficking Research Support Executive Vice President of Research Technology Licensing Office of Sponsored Programs GTRC and GTARC Office of Research Integrity Assurance Georgia Tech Policy Library Grants and Contracts Accounting Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2) Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accountability Employment Login © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology