/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Research Faculty Research Grants Graduate Research Funding Books by Affiliates The Minor Minor Overview and Requirements Fall 2022 Minor Course List Spring 2022 Minor Course List Minor Enrollment Form Health Equity Track Minor Course Archive Honors Thesis Contest MOA Summer 2022 Internship People Academic Leadership and Staff Affiliated Faculty and Postdocs Graduate Student Affiliates Events Visiting & Colloquium Speakers Inequality Discussion Group Past Events About Us Contact Us Test Your Inequality Quotient (IQ) The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Understanding patterns, causes, and consequences of social and economic inequality Center for the Study of Inequality Cornell University’s Center for the Study of Inequality (CSI) is devoted to understanding patterns, causes, and consequences of social and economic inequality. CSI fosters new and cutting-edge research, trains undergraduate and graduate students, encourages the exchange of ideas among inequality researchers, and disseminates research findings to a broader public. CSI Events See all events CSI Events Visiting and Colloquium Speakers The Center for the Study of Inequality regularly sponsors and co-sponsors lectures and conferences that feature world-renowned scholars and that draw attention to the most pressing problems and controversies in the field. Unless otherwise noted, events are free and open to the public. Please feel free to contact us to inquire about support for your event. Current and forthcoming events can be viewed here. Inequality Discussion Group This biweekly discussion group brings together Cornell faculty and graduate students from around campus to discuss and improve their in-progress research. Past Events Review past events CSI has hosted or co-sponsored. CSI News Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Women want to work, despite workforce precarity Despite persistent gaps in workforce participation, when it comes to wanting to work, the gender gap has all but disappeared over the last 45 years, according to Cornell sociologist Landon Schnabel. Read More A&S sophomore earns spot in summer program in D.C. Mar’Quon Frederick, a government major, will spend the summers of 2022 and 2023 in the Institute for Responsible Citizenship's Washington Program. Read More Alumni gift to A&S supports doctoral students in the humanities A $5 million alumni gift will help to support doctoral students in humanities fields within the College of Arts & Sciences. Read More Nexus Scholars Program applications now open The program connects undergraduates in A&S with opportunities to work side by side on research with Cornell faculty from across the College. Read More Declining birth rate reflects difficulty of combining work and child rearing Prof. Vida Maralani comments on the declining birthrate in the U.S. Read More Infrastructure bill comes amid all-time high distrust of water Africana Prof. Jerel Ezell comments on Pres. Biden's infrastructure bill. Read More New A&S program expands undergrad research opportunities The Nexus Scholars program will leverage the student-to-faculty ratio and the vibrant research enterprise in A&S to expand opportunities for students, while also enhancing the culture of collaborative scholarship at Cornell. Read More See all CSI News What's your IQ (Inequality Quotient)? Our online quiz tests your knowledge of current data on wealth, income, and racial inequities in the U.S. When you’re done with the 12 questions, you'll see a histogram that shows how you fared relative to other quiz-takers. Click here to access the IQ quiz. 363 Uris Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Center for the Study of Inequality 607-254-8674 Twitter Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top