Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU stone_program_wordmark_1151x278_web.png Search Join our mailing list Home About About the Malcolm Wiener Center Apply PhD Scholar Fellowships Postdoctoral Fellowships Visiting Scholars Research Grants People Faculty & staff PhD Scholars PhD alumni Seminar Seminar videos Past seminars Events The Stone Lectures News New Books Contact Now Accepting Applications for Stone PhD Scholar Fellowships, Due June 10, 2022 The Stone Program invites Harvard PhD students in the social sciences studying inequality to apply for funded fellowships. APPLICATION DEADLINES FOR FELLOWSHIPS AND GRANTS Visiting Scholar and Postdoctoral Fellowship applications due by June 1, 2022. Harvard-affiliated scholars can submit proposals for research grants by June 1, 2022. Applications from Harvard PhD students to join the next cohort of Stone PhD Scholars are due by June 10, 2022. Stone Program in Wealth Distribution, Inequality & Social Policy The James M. and Cathleen D. Stone Program in Wealth Distribution, Inequality, and Social Policy unites faculty, students, and researchers from across Harvard University and beyond to better understand and address the causes and consequences of wealth inequalities in different populations around the world. Funded by the James M. and Cathleen D. Stone Foundation, the new program at the Harvard Kennedy School’s Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy includes the work of the former Multidisciplinary Program in Inequality and Social Policy and adds new components, including a consortium of doctoral students in the social sciences whose research focuses on income and wealth inequality; policy-relevant and public-facing research that speaks to real-world problems; and public events to communicate research and engage members of the broader community. On March 28, 2022 Harvard Kennedy School Dean Douglas Elmendorf announced the receipt of a $5 million gift to establish the new Stone Program, which builds on the success of the Stone PhD Scholars. The announcement of this gift coincided with the 2022 James M. and Cathleen D. Stone Lecture in Economic Inequality featuring economist and Nobel Memorial Prize recipient Joseph Stiglitz in conversation with economist David Autor, current visiting professor at Harvard Kennedy School. Read the Harvard Kennedy School announcement. Upcoming Events 2022 Jun 10 Applications Due for Stone PhD Scholar Fellowships 5:00pm wide_2018_stone_lecture_pikettyimage_0.jpg hkslogo_wiener_cmyk_white.png The James M. and Cathleen D. Stone Program in Wealth Distribution, Inequality, and Social Policy Harvard Kennedy School 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 fad25b499a06e16f3e3083a08eb9e7cb Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement