Skip to Main Content Library Guides Library Guides William E. Brock Memorial Library Home William E. Brock Memorial Library: Home Official Website Databases and Full Text Journals PubMed Has more than 23 million citations for biomedical literature and life science journals. CAB Direct A comprehensive applied life science database that incorporates CAB Abstracts and Global Health. CAB Direct indexes literature in veterinary sciences, including journal articles, proceedings, book chapters, and other grey literature. Embase Find biomedical articles from 1947 to the present covering topics such as pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and clinical medicine. Science Direct A large bibliographic database of scientific and medical publications of the publisher Elsevier. Scopus Elsevier's Scopus, a large abstract and citation database of peer-reviewed literature; multi-disciplinary. AGRICOLA The Agricola database is produced by the National Agricultural Library that indexes literature of animal and veterinary sciences, plant sciences, among other agricultural-related subjects. TOXLINE in PubMed Collection of bibliographic information covering the biochemical, pharmacological, physiological, and toxicological effects of drugs and other chemicals. Animal Welfare Act History Digital Collection A full-text, searchable collection that is focused on the history of the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) TRIP (Turning Research Into Practice) Database A free medical search engine with a focus on evidence-based medicine (EBM) content. The Merck Veterinary Manual The Merck Veterinary Manual is a well-established conventional textbook on general animal health. OSU Library Catalog (Search Engine) Search books, articles and more from the OSU Library collection Search for Full Text Journals at OSU! Resources for Alumni Books & Articles OSU Library Catalog (Search Engine) Alumni Databases VetMed Resource Database (please contact us for access) Strategies for Accessing Research after Graduation Services Courtesy Card What is EndNote? "Endnote is software that allows users to manage their bibliographies, citations and references." ﻿ Click here to download the FREE software. Additional Guides Evidence-based Veterinary Medicine IEATPLANTS Living Laboratory Location & Hours William E. Brock Memorial Library 102 McElroy Hall College of Veterinary Medicine Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Phone: 405-744-6655 Email: lib-vet@okstate.edu Summer Interim Hours Monday - Friday 9AM - 5PM Memorial Day May 30th Closed Study Rooms Book a Study Room Interlibrary Service Video Tutorial Click Here to Request Articles and Book Chapters Scanned and Sent Directly to Your Inbox Menu Home Find Books Year 1 Reserves - Spring 2022 Year 2 Reserves - Spring 2022 Year 3 Reserves - Spring 2022 Electives Reserves - Spring 2022 Plumb's Pro Veterinary Drugs Library Hours and Location NAVLE Prep Special Collections Library Study Rooms Librarian Hui-Fen Chang Email Me Schedule Appointment Contact: Veterinary Medicine Librarian William E. Brock Memorial Library 102 McElroy Hall College for Veterinary Medicine Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (405) 744-5281 Subjects: Arts and Humanities, Library Information Last Updated: May 29, 2022 10:10 AM URL: https://info.library.okstate.edu/veterinary-health-sciences Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Library Information, Veterinary Medicine Tags: article, book, catalog, database, hours, journal, medicine, services, veterinary, VMED