Skip to main content About Message from the Chair History Facilities News Events Info Sci Colloquium Tech / Law Colloquium IS Engaged Graduation Info Contact Us Courses List of Info Sci Courses Class Roster Courses of Study Enrollment/Waitlist Research Computational Social Science Critical Data Studies Data Science Economics and Information Education Technology Ethics, Law and Policy Human-Computer Interaction Human-Robot Interaction Incentives and Computation Infrastructure Studies Interface Design and Ubiquitous Computing Natural Language Processing Network Science Social Computing and Computer-supported Cooperative Work Technology and Equity People Faculty PhDs Research Staff Staff Career Hiring Opportunities Faculty Positions - Ithaca Faculty Positions - Cornell Tech Research Staff Ugrad Course Staff Resources for Students For Employers Undergraduate Info Sci Majors BA - Information Science (College of Arts & Sciences) Admission Requirements Degree Requirements Core Courses Programming and Math Requirements Concentrations Behavioral Science Data Science Digital Culture and Production Information Ethics, Law, and Policy Interactive Technologies Networks, Crowds, and Markets UX (User Experience) Design Electives Criteria for Good Standing Honors Requirements BS - Information Science (CALS) Admission Requirements Degree Requirements Core Courses Programming and Math Requirements Concentrations Behavioral Science Data Science Digital Culture and Production Information Ethics, Law, and Policy Interactive Technologies Networks, Crowds, and Markets UX (User Experience) Design Electives Criteria for Good Standing Honors Requirements BS - Information Science, Systems, and Technology Admission to the Major Degree Requirements - Effective Fall 2020 Core Requirements Math Requirements Concentrations Behavioral Science Data Science Digital Culture and Production Information Ethics, Law, and Policy Interactive Technologies Networks, Crowds, and Markets UX (User Experience) Design Major Approved Electives Old ISST Requirements Core Requirements Math Requirements Specializations Criteria for Good Standing Honors Requirements Early Admit to MPS Independent Research Student Associations ISSA WICC URMC Cornell Design & Tech Initiative ACSU Cornell Data Science Undergraduate Minor in Info Sci Requirements Old Minor Requirements Our Students and Alumni Graduation Info Contact Us Masters Master of Professional Studies (MPS) - Ithaca Admissions How to Apply Admissions FAQs Funding Opportunities Scholarship Teaching Assistants Early Admit to MPS Curriculum Degree Requirements Courses & Focus Areas The MPS Project Recent MPS Projects Digital Tech Immersion Current Students Conference Travel Grant Third Semester Extension Our Students & Alumni Student Spotlights Career Success Graduation Info Program Contacts and Student Advising Connective Media - Cornell Tech Health Tech - Cornell Tech PHD Prospective PhD Students Admissions Ph.D. Admissions FAQs Ph.D. Visit Day Graduate Housing Degree Requirements and Curriculum Grad Student Orgs ISGSA PACT Statistics Graduate Society Computer Science Graduate Organization For Current PhDs Ph.D. Student Handbook Graduate School Requirements Graduate School Resources Ph.D. Field Requirements Field Specific Items, Helpful Tips, and Resources Conference and Travel Grants Outside Fellowship Opportunities Inter-Campus Travel Fund Graduate Minor Human Participant Compensation Diversity and Inclusion Our Students and Alumni Graduation Info Program Contacts and Student Advising Search form Search Commencement 2022 Faculty Excellence Information Science's Kyle Harms, Karen Levy, and Jeff Rzeszotarski each received Faculty Excellence Awards from Cornell Bowers CIS. Read More A NEW BUILDING Construction is scheduled to begin in early 2023 on a state-of-the-art academic building for the Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science READ MORE Strategic Partners A multimillion-dollar grant from LinkedIn has launched a five-year strategic partnership to support research in AI and other areas, and to bolster diversity initiatives within the college. Read More Alumni Give Back Gifts totaling $10 million – $5 million from Steve Conine ’95 and his wife Alexi Conine ’96, and $5 million from Niraj Shah ’95 and his wife Jill Shah – will support the construction of a leading-edge new building for Cornell Bowers CIS. Read More Who We Are Cornell's Information Science program connects top leaders in the field of technology with the next generation of innovators. Discover more about our program. Our History Prospective Students Information Science students engage in studies across a wide variety of fields. Find out what it takes to get a degree in Information Science. Undergraduate Program Research in Information Science InfoSci is home to several innovative research groups, with interests ranging from connective media to ubiquitous computing. Research In Information Science we look at the interactions between people and technology, how technology is shaping individual lives and social groups, as well as how the ways that people use technology can shape new developments. Featured News Green Receives Early Graduate Career Award May 26, 2022 Breanna Green, a doctoral student in the field of information science, is a 2022 recipient of an Early Graduate Career Award from Cornell... Katie Go ’22 Will Continue to Pursue Non-Profit Success Post-Commencement May 26, 2022 College: Computing and Information Science / Arts & Sciences Major: Information Science Hometown: ... Bowers CIS Faculty Receive Inaugural Excellence Awards May 25, 2022 By Louis DiPietro Ten faculty members from the Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science were named recipients... More news Upcoming Events There are no more upcoming events. More Events 2022 Graduation Info Beginning May 27, 2022 The big moment has arrived for our hard-working, driven students – Commencement Weekend 2022. Information Science is pleased to invite our degree candidates and their families to the hybrid graduation ceremony on Friday, May 27, 2022. Have a look at this year's schedule of events and find resources to help with planning. Info and Schedule Cornell Tech Spotlight A campus without precedent. The Cornell Tech campus is a place for discovery, alive with debate, both intellectually and physically. The sustainable campus architecture isn't just a backdrop for what is going on inside the buildings. Tech Campus in NYC © 2022 Cornell University Department of Information Science 236 Gates Hall, Ithaca NY 14853 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.