Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier Accessibility I am... Future Student Current Student Online Military Parent Alumni Faculty or Staff About ECU Academics Libraries Athletics Health Sciences Research ECUArts Give Apply | Search About ECU Academics Libraries Athletics Health Sciences Research ECUArts I am... Future Student Current Student Online Military Parent Alumni Faculty or Staff Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog Research, Economic Development and Engagement Advancing Health Care ECU was recently recognized as a Top 100 public university for research in the Health Sciences for our continued innovations to prevent, treat and deliver health care. Celebrating the Arts ECU’s research mission includes supporting creative activities, providing undergraduate research support to our talented artists. Inventive Educators ECU professors are creating innovative new teaching methods in the lab, introducing a new way of learning to students in chemistry, biology and physics. Cutting-Edge Facilities ECU’s motion capture studio in its Innovation Design Lab is one of many cutting-edge technologies available to university researchers. RESEARCH AND REGIONAL TRANSFORMATION As the only university in North Carolina with a medical school, a dental school and a college of engineering, East Carolina University is leading the way in creating important discoveries through research. We offer research opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, while seeking the best and brightest professional minds to meet the challenges of the 21st century. Researchers here are developing new technologies, medicines and innovative approaches that will transform the rural and coastal regions of our state and be part of the flagship university of eastern North Carolina! Discover More About Us Office of the Vice Chancellor Research Centers and Institutes Funding Opportunities Undergraduate Research Research Development Graduate Research Postdoctoral Research Community Engagement Research Administration and Compliance Innovation and New Ventures National Security and Industry Initiatives ECU Millennial Campus Division News 2020 End of Year Research Report ECU RESEARCH DASHBOARD ECU’s Research, economic development and community engagement activities are having a significant impact in North Carolina. Our continued increase in research and creative activities is benefiting the people, communities and businesses of the state. ECU’s Research Dashboard allows the community and our partners to track our progress. Learn more about how our researchers are affecting the region. Discover More DRIVE EAST INITIATIVE ECU’s DRIVE East Initiative harnesses the intellectual strengths and research facilities of ECU to improve the quality of life, health, education and employment for the people and communities of eastern North Carolina. Read more to see how ECU is helping its rural communities. learn More https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QCEMdagm5d4 STUDENT IMPACT GLOBAL IMPACT https://youtu.be/gq0DrkmumP0 STUDENT IMPACT ECU students, working both individually and in multidisciplinary teams, are discovering powerful and sustainable solutions for pressing health, education and economic prosperity challenges. Learn more about our students and their groundbreaking research. learn More SUPPORT STUDENT RESEARCH Email Canvas Colleges & Schools IT Help Safety Jobs Directory Maps Virtual Tour Transit ECU Online Global Affairs Outreach Student Stores Policies (PRR) Nondiscrimination/Title IX Freedom of Expression East Carolina University East 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier GIVE TO ECU APPLY