Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier Accessibility I am... Future Student Current Student Online Military Parent Alumni Faculty or Staff About ECU Academics Libraries Athletics Health Sciences Research ECUArts Give Apply | Search About ECU Academics Libraries Athletics Health Sciences Research ECUArts I am... Future Student Current Student Online Military Parent Alumni Faculty or Staff Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog About Living up to the promise. In his inaugural address as ECU’s first president, Robert Wright established a mission that guided its leaders for more than 100 years and still guides it today. “It was built by the people, for the people, and may it ever remain with the people, as a servant of the people.” His vision was that the university would offer an education equal to the very best institutions of higher learning, while also lifting the quality of life for the entire region. How pleased he would be to see how successfully ECU lived up to that long-ago promise! This website is filled with opportunity for undergraduate and graduate students who have interests in myriad majors and minors. You’ll find examples of extraordinary work by these students and by the many scientists, researchers, economists, artists, educators and counselors who have made this their home. You’ll also find hundreds of examples of this university’s many decades of service to eastern North Carolina — and its outreach across the entire state and around the globe. If your mission is our mission, “To Serve,” you’ve found a home at ECU. Wright said he wanted “every student . . . to go out from here literally afire with enthusiasm for East Carolina.” They have. And it’s very likely you will, too. MEET OUR LEADERSHIP Capture your Horizon Our Strategic Plan Our Mission Meet Our Students ECU News Accreditation Rankings and Recognitions ECU By the Numbers Institutional Disclosures Visit our Campus Campus Map PDF Maps Visitor Information Visitor Parking Schedule a Tour Virtual Tour Open House New Student Orientation Dowdy Student Stores About Greenville Email Canvas Colleges & Schools IT Help Safety Jobs Directory Maps Virtual Tour Transit ECU Online Global Affairs Outreach Student Stores Policies (PRR) Nondiscrimination/Title IX Freedom of Expression East Carolina University East 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier GIVE TO ECU APPLY