Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Innovation Office of Innovation right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow In the News Meet the Team right arrow down arrow David J. Adams Ideas / Inventions right arrow down arrow Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Startups right arrow down arrow Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Makerspace right arrow down arrow Equipment Service Center Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub right arrow down arrow Strategic Partners Take a Tour Events/Programming Floor by Floor Agreements right arrow down arrow Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Contact Student Engagement Office of Innovation » Agreements » Industry Research Tiers Set Navigation title in component Industry Research Tiers Available Technologies MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Industry Research Tiers In today’s rapid pace of change, University of Cincinnati’s Office of Innovation makes it easy for industry to start working quickly and painlessly with top talent. We know how fast business moves, and we move fast with you. A license is a permission given by one party (the licensor) to another party (the licensee). In the case of intellectual property (IP), that permission often takes the form of allowing the licensee to use the IP owned by the licensor in an agreed upon manner, but does not involve the licensor selling the IP or otherwise transferring ownership permanently to the licensee. 3 TIER LICENSES We have developed three ways for industry to access top research at UC, called the 3-Tier Approach: Download the PDF Tier 1: Non-Exclusive Royalty-Free License (NERF) For companies that don’t think there will be any IP generated during a project and want to start collaborating quickly. Company receives a royalty-free non-exclusive license to the IP and an option to negotiate an exclusive license after IP is developed. No fees or royalties. Background IP is not included Tier 2: Exclusive License with Pre-Set Royalty For companies that want to have an exclusive royalty-bearing IP position, this allows for the project to launch quickly but ensures an IP position once the project ends. Company pays an additional 10% of the full cost of the sponsored research project ($15,000 minimum). Company pays 1% royalties of net sales starting in the year annual sales using IP reaches $20MM. Both the company and the UC Principal Investigator must agree to use Tier 2 for the project. Background IP is not included. Tier 3: Ownership Assigned to Sponsor For companies that want any potential IP created during the project assigned to them before the project even begins. Ownership of UC project IP and UC’s interest in joint project IP are assigned to company. Company pays an additional fee of 75% of the full cost of the sponsored research project for the assignment of IP. Both the company and the UC Principal Investigator must agree to use Tier 3 for the project. There can be no UC background IP associated with the project. 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top