0 Skip to Content About Overview Team News Reservations Seminole Innovators Learn Overview Courses Innovation Minor 3D Printing 3D Design Digital Badges Methods Methods Overview Design Thinking Designing Your Life Systems Thinking Facilities Facility Overview Fablab XR Lab Connect Open Menu Close Menu About Overview Team News Reservations Seminole Innovators Learn Overview Courses Innovation Minor 3D Printing 3D Design Digital Badges Methods Methods Overview Design Thinking Designing Your Life Systems Thinking Facilities Facility Overview Fablab XR Lab Connect Open Menu Close Menu Folder: About Back Current Page: Overview Team News Reservations Seminole Innovators Folder: Learn Back Overview Courses Innovation Minor 3D Printing 3D Design Digital Badges Folder: Methods Back Methods Overview Design Thinking Designing Your Life Systems Thinking Folder: Facilities Back Facility Overview Fablab XR Lab Connect Connect | Discover | Create @ The Hub An on campus and online community for innovation using Design Thinking and emerging technologies. EVENT HIGHLIGHTS What’s new at The Hub? Featured Oct 21, 2021 Designing your life peer mentor Oct 21, 2021 Oct 21, 2021 Aug 4, 2021 Seminole Innovators program launching this Fall Aug 4, 2021 Aug 4, 2021 Jun 22, 2020 New Class Gives Students Control of their Futures Jun 22, 2020 Jun 22, 2020 Jun 19, 2020 New Online Tutorials Provide Serious Skills for Design and Innovation! Jun 19, 2020 Jun 19, 2020 Jun 18, 2020 Remote 3D Printing Now Available at The Hub Jun 18, 2020 Jun 18, 2020 Jun 15, 2020 Innovation Hub Safeguards Frontline Jun 15, 2020 Jun 15, 2020 Transdisciplinary discovery, design, and innovation to confront the vexing, complex and wicked challenges of our day. Mission To foster a collaborative community founded on a culture of creativity and innovation that identifies issues, explores opportunities, and develops solutions using design thinking and emerging technologies. Vision Students from all disciplines working together to combine their unique expertise and perspectives under the guidance of experienced mentors to create novel and effective solutions to the vexing, complex, and wicked problems of our day. Get Started Connect with us by signing up for our email list, following us on social media, and joining in our activities online and on-site! Start Exploring our online training and workshops, earn badges can add up to becoming an FSU Innovation Scholar! Get to know our facility, and our team - maybe even join our team as a student intern, graduate assistant, or Innovator in Residence. Services The Innovation Hub was built in 2018 through a $2.5 million investment by Provost Sally McRorie to deepen FSU’s distinctive commitment to continuous innovation in undergraduate education. While “The Hub” serves as home to many innovation, entrepreneurship, and technology courses, it’s strongest impact is in the following areas: Co-curricular Opportunities The Hub offers many educational activities that compliment students’ traditional learning and add valuable skills to their professional portfolio. Workshops, online tutorials, badges, and fun events like hackathons, shark tanks, and design sprints provide students with opportunities to connect, network, and level-up. Cutting Edge Resources We have study rooms, conference rooms, classrooms, and event space to support a wide variety of innovation activities. Our Digital Fablab provides access to 3D printing, laser cutting, vinyl cutting, electronics, robotics, and drone technology. Our XR lab has every popular VR, and AR headset. Stop by! We’ll get you started! Experiential Learning Built on a foundation of Design Thinking, students become experienced at working in groups collaboratively to confront wicked problems. Our student consulting teams apply their skills on problems presented by corporate partners and government agencies for impact in the real world. Better Together Many of our educational events, activities and programs are provided by our partner departments and student organization (RSO) affiliates. If you’re part of an innovative organization, we invite you to make the Innovation Hub your home. That’s why they call us “The Hub!” Personalized Support We support the creative and innovative needs of our campus community. Whether a student needs advice on a new invention, a teacher wants to add a VR or 3D printing project to a class, or a grad student needs to design custom lab equipment, we’re here to work with you to help you succeed! Innovation Ecosystem The Innovation Hub is an active partner of the greater Tallahassee/Leon County Innovation Ecosystem! We work with the Jim Moran College, the Tallahassee Mayor’s Office, the Leon County Office of Economic Vitality, DOMI Station, TCC Center for Innovation, and other schools, businesses and organizations to promote Innovation and Entrepreneurship across the region. “We can't solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them.” — Albert Einstein Hallmarks of The Hub Design Thinking It all begins with Empathy. Understanding a problem from a very human and personal perspective. Then working with your team to properly frame the problem through the insight you’ve gained. After that the fun part begins - focussing all your creative energy on developing novel and impactful solutions and choosing the best to prototype and test to perfection. Check out our Design Thinking class, and online lessons, and come join us at our next Design Sprint. Emerging Technologies The world’s problems are more vexing and complex than ever. We need to leverage new and powerful technologies to develop effective solutions. The Hub introduces students to those technologies. Whether you want to prototype inventions in our Digital Fablab, explore virtual environments and objects in VR and AR, code apps, games, drones, or machine intelligence, or build robots, we have the gear that is sure to capture your imagination. No experience required. Expertise We’re here to get you started. We have some of the most innovative faculty, staff, and students from across a network of over 20 FSU departments anxious to engage you with 21st century skills. We also have Innovators in Residence who are building teams of students to take on real world projects. Check out our Team page to learn about all who are involved. Just stop by and introduce yourself, and we’ll take it from there. “All genuine learning is active not passive.” — Mortimer Adler Innovation Hub Partners Innovation Hub partners support The Hub with critical resources and provide educational opportunities for our students. Partners serve on The Hub Steering Committee to help guide our direction. We wouldn't exist without our partners. Founding Partners Our Founding Partners have made significant contributions towards the Hub's creation, maintenance, and operations. Office of the Provost School of Information College of Communication and Information FSU Libraries Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship Academic Partners Our Academic Partners contribute academic programming and support in their areas of innovative expertise. Center for Leadership and Social Change College of Arts and Sciences College of Business College of Education College of Engineering College of Fine Arts College of Motion Picture Arts College of Nursing College of Social Sciences and Public Policy College of Social Work Department of Art Department of Interior Architecture and Design Department of Scientific Computing Emergency Management and Homeland Security Program Support Partners Our Support Partners collaborate with the Innovation Hub in providing services to students through the Hub. Campus Recreation FSU Career Center Center for Undergraduate Research and Academic Engagement (CRA) Information technology Services (ITS) Learning Systems Institute (LSI) Office of Distance Learning (ODL) Subscribe to Our Newsletter Sign up to receive news and updates. First Name Last Name Email Address Sign Up Thank you! HOURS OF OPERATION Summer 2022 Mon - Fri 9am-5pm Facility | Team | Fablab | Discover | Connect | News © 2020 FSU Innovation Hub - All Rights Reserved 142 Collegiate Loop [map] Tallahassee, FL 32306-2110 info@innovation.fsu.edu 850 645 8620