Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Innovation Office of Innovation right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow In the News Meet the Team right arrow down arrow David J. Adams Ideas / Inventions right arrow down arrow Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Startups right arrow down arrow Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Makerspace right arrow down arrow Equipment Service Center Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub right arrow down arrow Strategic Partners Floor by Floor Agreements right arrow down arrow Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Contact Student Engagement Office of Innovation » Startups » Graduation Set Navigation title in component Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Graduation COHORT 18 Thank you for your interest in UC Venture Lab Pre-Accelerator Program! These teams of early-stage entrepreneurs are completing an 8-week program exploring commercialization potential of their business concepts. Now, they are ready to show you their big idea at Graduation Day on May 31. We welcome your insights, expertise and recommendations for connections to help bring their product to life. Meet the teams Automatic Digital Asynchronous Circuit Generator Team Members John 'Marty' Emmert john.emmert@uc.edu Luis Concha luis.concha@uc.edu Overview Traditional synchronous, sequential Computer Aided Design (CAD) flows synthesize digital circuits from high level, behavioral Hardware Description Language (HDL) representations to gate level [verilog] net lists. Our CAD tool will take the resulting synchronous, sequential gate level net list, and convert it into an area efficient, asynchronous [verilog] net list that can be inserted back into the standard CAD flow. Thus the new CAD tool provides a seamless approach for asynchronous circuit implementation that does not require any special training or knowledge, addresses substrate noise problems associated with Systems-on-a-Chip (SOC) mixed signal design, obfuscates data and reduces susceptibility to Side Channel Attacks (SCAs), and is compatible with most existing digital CAD flows. Bio-Field Programmable Gate Array for Polymerase Chain Reaction Detection of SARS-CoV-2 Team Members Jiajie Diao diaoje@ucmail.uc.edu Chen-Yi Lee cylee@si2lab.org Yan-Kai Tzeng ytzeng@stanford.edu Overview We have developed a novel portable, programmable, and handheld device, like the microscale laboratory or bio-FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array). Our device, as called bio-FPGA, can carry out several tasks in parallel, including sample processing, extraction, labeling, targeting, molecular biomarker detection - with high specificity and sensitivity, and both real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) and digital PCR (dPCR). FANG Modular Tower for Video Gamers Team Members Daric Foster fang_multimedia@protonmail.com Overview The product is a versatile, rotating organizational display stand designed to fit a universal array of video game controllers and gaming accessories. Customers can configure the function, appearance, and storage capacity, to their liking with add-ons. After decades of styles, sizes and shapes for video game controllers the general purpose is to create a universal, centralized displaying and organizing apparatus. HomePlate Team Members Ben Foster ben@homeplateco.com Emily Smith emily@homeplateco.com Nathan Harmon nathan@homeplateco.com Overview HomePlate is a two-sided marketplace that allows customers access to creative menus from local chefs who will cook or teach in the customer's very own kitchen. Chefs can join the platform by uploading their own menu or cooking classes onto their profile, which will be visible to all users in their neighborhood. HomePlate creates a frictionless dining experience by establishing what allergens the customer may have and the cooking equipment available for the chef to use before any dialogue is ever opened. We believe in taking care of each other and feeding our communities, so HomePlate pledges 15% of the proceeds to local hunger-relief organizations in an effort to help fight the food crisis. Nurse-Assisted Foot-Egress Hospital Bed Team Members Dale Foster dixfost@centurylink.net Deborah McCool dmccool1@comcast.net Macy McCool mccoolmy@gmail.com Overview A bed designed to reduce hospital falls by altering the traditional over-the-side egress to an end-of-the-bed/foot-egress with supporting rails. Portable Wastewater Treatment Plant Team Members Ken Poynter poynter.engineer@gmail.com Overview Modular waste treatment facility utilizing a shipping container ISO construction standard as the tank design allowing for easy installation and transport via truck, train, or shipping vessel. Ripple Team Members Jaden Walton Waltonj9@mail.uc.edu Overview Water bottles and merch to create a user base then graduate capital to creating the products in America (not currently done for stainless steel water bottles). Once we have generated a strong user base, become the Amazon for sustainable products. Software Platform to Personalize Tumor Immunotherapy in Combination with Other Types of Therapy Team Members Tongli Zhang Tongli.Zhang@uc.edu Overview To develop a software platform that personalizes tumor immunotherapy in combination with other types of therapy. UltiCones Team Members Peter Blanchard pcb123@gmail.com Overview UltiCones are collapsible sports cones that store flat and fit perfectly inside of a Frisbee.The only equipment needed to play the sport of Ultimate is a disc and a set of cones. Standard sports cones are bulky and awkward to carry in a normal backpack or bike bag. UltiCones collapsible sport cones store flat so that an entire set of 10 will fit inside of a standard Frisbee. The kit fits in any backpack or bike bag, and then pops up easily into full-height sport cones.No other sports cone offers the same combination of portability, visibility and cool factor as UltiCones. Yummr Team Members Max Fritzhand fritzhma@mail.uc.edu Behcet Ozer ozerbt@mail.uc.edu Eric Lees ericlees003@gmail.com Overview Yummr is an augmented reality food menu application. It allows restaurants to scan 360 degree views of their dishes using their device to create 3D food models. Customers are able to view it in the app as well as augmented reality. 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top