Harvard innovation labs Explore About Our Staff Visit Community Partners Careers News Current Access Rules Events Upcoming Events Past Events Ventures Venture Teams Venture Stories Our Labs Harvard i-lab Launch Lab X GEO Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab Our Offerings Our Offerings Overview Venture Program President’s Innovation Challenge Funding Opportunities Office Hours Expert Resources Advising Resources AR/VR Studio Maker Studio Media Studio Meeting Rooms My i-lab Search Explore About Our Staff Visit Community Partners Careers News Current Access Rules Events Upcoming Events Past Events Ventures Venture Teams Venture Stories Our Labs Harvard i-lab Launch Lab X GEO Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab Our Offerings Our Offerings Overview Venture Program President’s Innovation Challenge Funding Opportunities Office Hours Expert Resources Advising Resources AR/VR Studio Maker Studio Media Studio Meeting Rooms My i-lab Search Hi. Come visit us! The i-lab is open to anyone with a valid Harvard ID. Find current access rules here. Meet the PIC Winners On May 5, we hosted our President’s Innovation Challenge Awards Ceremony! See who won Follow us on social: The entrepreneurial journey is always asking us to look up, around us, and beyond ourselves. It is not linear. The ventures that we see every day here at the Harvard Innovation Labs reflect the courage, nimbleness, and playfulness it takes to innovate. When we bring a more human approach to venture creation and to our lives, everything opens up. On this 10th anniversary, we are reminded that we are always surrounded by the potential for more creativity, more goodness, and more humanity with each other. The opportunity to create new worlds and ways of being with each other is all around us. THE PRESIDENT’S INNOVATION CHALLENGE The President’s Innovation Challenge (PIC) is an invitation to Harvard students and select alumni & affiliate-led ventures to propel their ideas forward. The PIC is also an opportunity to win a share of $510,000 in non-dilutive funding, made possible by a gift from the Bertarelli Foundation. Throughout the seven-month process, teams develop their ventures with robust support from the Harvard Innovation Labs. Meet the winners “What began as one effort is now a thriving three-lab ecosystem. The Harvard i-lab works with hundreds of student startups each year (a record 576 this fall). We advance seed-stage alumni ventures through our LLX GEO program. And we support high-potential life sciences venture teams through our Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab, which celebrated its fifth anniversary this month. Over the last decade, 4,700+ founders—from all 13 Harvard schools—have come through our doors. They’ve gone on to raise over $4 billion in capital and, since they represent more than 150 countries, create truly global change. Our teams are transforming dozens of industries and creating meaningful impact that spans the private, public, and nonprofit sectors. I couldn’t be prouder of our innovators—and our staff team and array of experts who work tirelessly in service to them.” –Matt Segneri, Bruce and Bridgitt Evans Executive Director VENTURE PROFILE: GHOOM Our current venture profile series highlights Harvard Innovation Labs ventures in the inaugural Harvard Climate Entrepreneurs Circle. Ghoom, a venture founded in 2018, developed a platform that offers e-bike and battery subscriptions to help customers find work in the gig economy and substantially increase their earnings. Hear from founder Aishwarya Kachhal! What We Offer For students No matter what your interest in innovation is, we've got something for you. From I-just-want-to-kick-the-tires to I'm-ready-for-the-fast-lane, we're here to help you. If you’re a matriculated, degree-seeking Harvard student, your student ID is your license to explore what the i-lab can do for you. Come look around, experience our space, tap into advice with our expert office hours, or attend one of our workshops and start learning about innovation and entrepreneurship. And when you're ready to get serious about building a venture, check out the Venture Program. Learn More For alumni Harvard Innovation Labs supports alumni entrepreneurs who’ve graduated to the next level of the innovation world beyond the Harvard campus. Our latest offering is Launch Lab X GEO, a new accelerator exclusively for Harvard alumni-led ventures. Launch Lab X GEO was built from the ground up to support the development of your venture from seed-stage startup to sustainable, disruptive business. But we're not stopping there. Stay tuned for more announcements soon about our efforts to build a global network for Harvard alumni innovators and entrepreneurs. Learn More For life science entrepreneurs Building early-stage life science and biotech ventures is hard. We make it a little easier. If you're a Harvard student, alumni, faculty, or post-doc with an early-stage life science or biotech venture, the Life Lab offers everything you need to validate your idea. With access to a fully-permitted wet lab and co-working space at below-market rates, and the entire Harvard Innovation Labs network available to you, everything you need to test, build, and grow, is at your fingertips. Learn More Latest News Voices of AAAPI Venture Leaders This Asian, Asian American, and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, we’re glad to celebrate the many AAAPI founders in our venture community and in the world! It’s no exaggeration to say that we’re indebted to AAAPI leaders and innovators for their contributions to every facet of our society, from building the Transcontinental Railroad to advancing civil rights to conducting groundbreaking research and much, much more. Learn More Our Labs Harvard i-lab Explore Launch Lab X GEO Explore Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab Explore Harvard University Sign up for Updates Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Facebook Instagram Twitter Copyright © 2011 - 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Search