Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Innovation Office of Innovation right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow In the News Meet the Team right arrow down arrow David J. Adams Ideas / Inventions right arrow down arrow Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Startups right arrow down arrow Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Makerspace right arrow down arrow Equipment Service Center Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub right arrow down arrow Strategic Partners Floor by Floor Agreements right arrow down arrow Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Contact Student Engagement Where Next Happens The 1819 Office of Innovation Office of Innovation We accelerate passion and ideas into working prototypes, startups, patents, industry partnerships, and community and global impact. The Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities (APLU) has included the University of Cincinnati in its list of IEP Designees since 2013. The IEP program recognizes institutions that have demonstrated a meaningful, ongoing and substantial commitment to economic and community development, growth, and economic opportunity. We achieve this at the 1819 Innovation Hub, the connecting place where UC meets the world and the world meets UC. Have an idea that you believe could benefit the world? Share it with our office and let us help guide you to success. Want to learn more? Contact Us Read Our Stories IDEAS / INVENTIONS Maximize the societal impact of your ideas. UC innovation is changing the world and this is where it starts. Learn our process, search available technologies, or confidentially share your idea with our knowledgeable staff who can help you commercialize it. STARTUPS Turn your idea into a startup opportunity that will attract outside entrepreneurial talent and investors. Learn how easy it is to move your idea into a product or service. This is the help you’ve been looking for. MAKERSPACE Transform your idea into the material world in our makerspace, where innovation is supported through the prototyping phase. Take an orientation, join a class, become a member of our maker-community of innovators and experts. 1819 INNOVATION HUB A place of thinking, making and doing, of discovery and delivery – 1819 connects you to what matters most. This is the one-stop destination where industry meets University talent. Join a program, engage with our strategic partners, take a tour, and more. IDEAS / INVENTIONS Maximize the societal impact of your ideas. UC innovation is changing the world and this is where it starts. Learn our process, search available technologies, or confidentially share your idea with our knowledgeable staff who can help you commercialize it. STARTUPS Turn your idea into a startup opportunity that will attract outside entrepreneurial talent and investors. Learn how easy it is to move your idea into a product or service. This is the help you’ve been looking for. MAKERSPACE Transform your idea into the material world in our makerspace, where innovation is supported through the prototyping phase. Take an orientation, join a class, become a member of our maker-community of innovators and experts. 1819 INNOVATION HUB A place of thinking, making and doing, of discovery and delivery – 1819 connects you to what matters most. This is the one-stop destination where industry meets University talent. Join a program, engage with our strategic partners, take a tour, and more. We quickly connect you to the resources you need to succeed. David J. Adams, Chief Innovation Officer 1819 News & Events UC ShareIT program gives local students glimpse into their future May 19, 2022 Eleven students, along with seven mentors from Hughes High School in Cincinnati, toured the 1819 Innovation Hub, the nerve center of the Cincinnati Innovation District (CID) as part of the University of Cincinnati ShareIT program on May 11. UC startup helps police departments prevent, solve crime May 16, 2022 Software technology from a University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup that focuses on records management and data analytics is helping law enforcement agencies more efficiently manage and share data to help solve crime. UC graduate develops in-home physical therapy company May 4, 2022 University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup Band Connect is nearing a close on its pre-seed round of funding and will start a military pilot with the Department of Defense, the Cincinnati Business Courier reported. Load More Debug Query for this More News 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top