Toggle navigation Academy for Innovation and Entrepreneurship About Learn Impact Programs Contact Innovate Fearlessly We help University of Maryland students and professionals creatively solve tough problems. Get Involved Want to get involved with the Academy? Start here! Creativity, Innovation, & Entrepreneurship for Everyone Creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship are infused into our core from the sciences to the humanities and everything in between. It’s no wonder UMD has been nationally ranked for innovation and entrepreneurship for 10 straight years. Ranked #6 nationwide by Princeton Read More… Learn Design Thinking…the Academy way! Not sure what design thinking is? Maybe you’re familiar and want to learn a little bit more? Then check out the Academy’s design thinking modules – four short modules to inspire your inner design thinker. Find them here: ter.ps/DTplaylist Every corner of our campus, from the sciences and humanities to research and business, is committed to launching Fearless Ideas. Mission We cultivate the innovator and entrepreneurial mindset inside of students, researchers, and professionals through design thinking, lean startup, and team-based experiential learning in order to creatively tackle the world’s toughest problems. The Academy for Innovation & Entrepreneurship (AIE) was launched in 2013 and charged with engaging all 40,000+ of our students in innovation & entrepreneurship (I&E) experiences to prepare them to tackle the world's toughest problems. UMD has already made it halfway towards that goal as a result of extensive campus-wide collaboration across every school and college. How are we accomplishing this? By adopting and adapting the same innovation methods successful startups use - design thinking and lean startup. You can get the full story here. We often ask our students: “What problem are you trying to solve and for whom?” When we asked ourselves this question, we talked to students from all over campus and discovered that they’re often forced to choose between either graduating on time or pursuing real-world passions, projects, and ventures they’re passionate about. We’re solving that problem by allowing students to do both through I&E experiences embedded directly in the core curriculum so that exploring their passions actually moves them closer to graduation rather than farther away. At UMD, our students learn how to ... Icons created by (from left to right) Viktor Vorobyev, Linh Pham, Matt Brooks, Silviu Runceanu, Garrett Knoll, Jules Dominic, and Patrycja Kuracińska from Noun Project and Flaticon The Academy complements and enhances the foundation of entrepreneurial courses and programs built over the last 30 years. Stay in the loop with our newsletter. Input your email and press enter. Index Home About Learn Impact Programs Contact Academy for Innovation & Entrepreneurship Edward St. John Learning & Teaching Center Suite 1130 University of Maryland College Park, MD 20742-5567 301.405.5882 © 2022 University of Maryland, Academy for Innovation and Entrepreneurship Created with by UMD students- jacksongeller, jhill, & scottrblock. | Web Accessibility Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram Flickr Email