Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Innovation Office of Innovation right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow In the News Meet the Team right arrow down arrow David J. Adams Ideas / Inventions right arrow down arrow Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Startups right arrow down arrow Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Makerspace right arrow down arrow Equipment Service Center Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub right arrow down arrow Strategic Partners Take a Tour Events/Programming Floor by Floor Agreements right arrow down arrow Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Contact Student Engagement Office of Innovation » Makerspace » Equipment Set Navigation title in component Equipment Service Center Member Portal Equipment Equipment access policy We utilize a safety control banding approach to equipment access, grouping equipment by relative risk level. Each level of access is paired with appropriate instruction using hands-on training and online tutorials. Levels 1+2 provide access to the Prototyping and Assembly Lab. Levels 3+4 provide access to a range of equipment in the Fabrication Lab. Certain equipment, such as CNC machining centers and the waterjet cutter are operated only by trained staff. The levels of access are not necessarily linear; users are encouraged to seek the training that is most relevant to them. For example, one can acquire access to Level 1 and Level 3 tools, without completing training on Level 2 tools. To view your active certifications, login to the member portal, navigate to your user profile, and select Memberships. Access Level Equipment Example Risk Level Training Certification Required Operated By 1 Hand tools, limited battery operated power tools Low No Member 2 Prototyping equipment (laser cutters, vacuum former, etc. Moderate Yes Member 3 Industrial woodworking and metal working equipment High Yes Member with staff supervision 4 Industrial CNC equipment (CNC router, waterjet, etc.) High Yes Staff Only Equipment access levels Level 1 - Prototyping Lab right arrow down arrow All members of the UC community that consent to our usage policy are granted access to the prototyping lab and are permitted to use level 1 equipment including CAD computer workstations, large format inkjet printers, vinyl cutter, desktop 3d printers, electronics workstations, hand tools, and limited battery powered tools. Level 2 - Prototyping Lab right arrow down arrow Procedural training is required to gain access to more advanced level 2 prototyping equipment, such as Epilog laser cutters, Artec Eva 3d scanner, and Formech vacuum former. Level 3 - Fabrication right arrow down arrow Industrial woodshop and metal shop tools require hands-on safety training before use. Woodshop tools include table saw, jointer, planer, band saw, miter saw, drill press, lathe, track saw, domino joiner, and production sander. Metal shop tools include cold saw, metal cutting band saw, grinders, MIG and TIG welders, plasma cutter, drill press, manual mill, manual lathe, iron worker, slip roller, shear, brake, hydraulic bender, and sand blaster. Level 4 - Advanced Fabrication right arrow down arrow Includes access to industrial CNC equipment, including CNC router, water jet cutter, CNC mills, and CNC lathe. Operation of CNC equipment is only performed by dedicated members of the Ground Floor staff. Files to be processed using these pieces of equipment must be submitted and reviewed by staff before being scheduled. All machining projects require a project consultation prior to production. We regularly machine metals, wood, plastics, and composites. Materials that present health and safety hazards may not be appropriate for processing at the Ground Floor. Please discuss material selection with our staff during your consultation. PROTOTYPING The prototyping lab offers access to laser cutting; low-cost, basic FDM 3d printing; SLA 3d printing; solvent-based archival quality graphics printing; vinyl cutting, sewing with garment weight and industrial straight stitch machines, and basic electronics workstations. Prototyping Equipment List Laser cutters Use to cut or engrave a variety of material 3D Printers Use to rapidly prototype parts and models in PLA. 3D Scanners Use to scan real world objects into 3D mesh models Vinyl Cutter Use cutting vinyl for decals, lettering, stickers Large Format Printer Use for large format outputs of various materials Sewing Machines Use for joining leather, heavy fabrics. Heavy duty. Electronics Bench Use for test and working on all things eletronic Spray Booth Use for applying paint, and any airbourne materials Computer Stations Use for designing, concepting and controlling machines FABRICATION The fabrication lab offers members access to fully stocked wood and metal shops, as well as manual and CNC machining in wood, plastics, and metals. Hand and power tools are available for use in the Ground Floor only. Fabrication Equipment List CNC: mills, router and lathe Use to accurately perform various types of CNC operations on metal. Materials: soft plastics, hard plastics, soft metals, hard metals Waterjet Use to 2D cut a large variety of materials. Materials: Cutting, 2 Axix contour, soft plastics, hard plastics, soft metals, hard metals TIG/MIG Welders Use to join various metal Materials: soft metals, hard metals Plasma cutter Use to join various metal Materials: soft metals, hard metals Drill press Use for drilling holes in various types of woods Materials: soft plastics, hard plastics, soft metals, hard metals Metal shear and brake Use for cutting and folding sheet metal Cold Saw Use to cut down metal into stock. Capable of beveling and swiveling. Materials: soft metals, hard metals Wood lathe Use to turn various types of woods into cylindrical shapes Materials: soft wood, hard wood Jointer & Planer Use for facing or edging various types of woods Materials: soft wood, hard wood Saws: miter, band and table Use for rip cuts with wood or cut out shapes Materials: soft plastics, hard plastics, soft wood, hard wood 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top