Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Innovation Office of Innovation right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow In the News Meet the Team right arrow down arrow David J. Adams Ideas / Inventions right arrow down arrow Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Startups right arrow down arrow Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Makerspace right arrow down arrow Equipment Service Center Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub right arrow down arrow Strategic Partners Take a Tour Events/Programming Floor by Floor Agreements right arrow down arrow Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Contact Student Engagement Office of Innovation » Agreements » MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Set Navigation title in component MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Agreement Types Material Transfer Agreements (MTAs) These are used for incoming and outgoing materials. These agreements describe the terms under which our researchers and outside researchers may share materials, typically for research or evaluation purposes. Confidential Disclosure Agreements (CDAs)/Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs) These are often used to protect the confidentiality of an invention during evaluation by potential licensees. CDAs also protect proprietary information of third parties that researchers need to review in order to conduct research or evaluate research opportunities. Data Use Agreements (DUAs)/Data Sharing Agreements (DSAs) These are used to transfer data that has been developed by universities, government, non-profits or private industry, in a confidential manner, usually with restrictions. They clarify and establish the activity between institutions that governs the transfer of one or more data sets from the owner/provider to a third party. Organizations involved in the data sharing also have the potential to form a license between the two parties. 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top