Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Innovation-Led Economic Development Menu Close Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Home About Us About How We Make a Difference EI2 Monthly Newsletter Connecting with GT Resources Annual Report Leadership Staff Directory Atlanta Office Regional Offices Careers Programs Commercialization VentureLab I-Corps Entrepreneurship ATDC Engage Accelerator Business Services GaMBDA Contracting Academy EDL GaMEP GTPAC SHES (OSHA) SETAAC Enterprise 6 Success Stories News Contact Us Atlanta Office Directions to EI2 Atlanta Offices in the Centergy Building 75 – 5th Street, NW, Suite 3000 Atlanta, GA 30308 Driving South: From I-85 … Take the 17th Street exit (Exit 84). At the traffic light, turn left. Go over the Downtown Connector and turn right onto Spring Street. Traffic is one-way on Spring Street heading south. Stay in the right lane. Just past the second traffic light, turn right onto Abercromie Street. Then turn right into the Centergy parking deck. (See #3 on map below.) Parking there is about $2 an hour. Take the parking deck elevator to the 5th level and then use the covered pedestrian walkway to the building courtyard. The Centergy building (75 – 5th St.) will be on your left. Enter the revolving doors and walk right to the elevators. Take an elevator to the 3rd floor. Driving South: From I-75 … Exit at 14th Street and continue south to 10th Street. At the traffic light on 10th Street, turn left and proceed until you cross over the Downtown Connector. Turn right at the second traffic signal onto Spring Street. Traffic is one-way on Spring heading south. Stay in the right lane. Just past the second traffic light, turn right onto Abercromie Street. Then turn right into the Centergy parking deck. (See #3 on map below.) Parking there is about $2 an hour. Take the parking deck elevator to the 5th level and then use the covered pedestrian walkway to the building courtyard. The Centergy building (75 – 5th St.) will be on your left. Enter the revolving doors and walk right to the elevators. Take an elevator to the 3rd floor. Driving North on the I-85/75 Downtown Connector … Exit at 10th Street (Exit 250), and get in the right hand lane. At the traffic signal at the end of the ramp, turn right. Proceed one block and turn right at the first traffic signal onto Spring Street. Traffic is one-way on Spring Street heading south. Stay in right lane. Just past the second traffic light, turn right onto Abercromie Street. Then turn right into the Centergy parking deck. (See #3 on map below.) Parking there is about $2 an hour. Take the parking deck elevator to the 5th level and then use the covered pedestrian walkway to the building courtyard. The Centergy building (75 – 5th St.) will be on your left. Enter the revolving doors and walk right to the elevators. Take an elevator to the 3rd floor. MARTA directions to Centergy Building at 75 – 5th Street … Exit the train at the Midtown Station located near the corner of 10th Street and West Peachtree Street. Exit on the south side of the station which is on Peachtree Place. The Georgia Tech Trolley makes regular stops there (every 6-8 minutes) and provides free transportation to the campus. The trolley is bright Georgia Tech yellow — you can’t miss it. After boarding at the rail station, the second trolley stop is immediately in front of our location at 75 – 5th Street. When you exit the trolley, walk into the courtyard and proceed about 75 feet to the Centergy Building revolving door entrance straight ahead. Enter there, bear to the right and take the elevator to the 3rd floor. Return transportation to the Midtown Station via the Trolley is free and available immediately across the street from the Centergy courtyard. The MARTA fare is $2.50 each way. For MARTA information, visit www.itsmarta.com. Resources Search EI2 Resources Enterprise Innovation Institute 75 5th Street NW Atlanta, GA 30308 Phone: 404-894-2222 Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Log In Powered by Professional Web Presence (PWP) Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accreditation Employment THIS PAGE IS NOT A PUBLICATION OF THE GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AND THE GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAS NOT EDITED OR EXAMINED THE CONTENT. THE AUTHOR(S) OF THE PAGE ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CONTENT. © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology