Harvard innovation labs Explore About Our Staff Visit Community Partners Careers News Current Access Rules Events Upcoming Events Past Events Ventures Venture Teams Venture Stories Our Labs Harvard i-lab Launch Lab X GEO Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab Our Offerings Our Offerings Overview Venture Program President’s Innovation Challenge Funding Opportunities Office Hours Expert Resources Advising Resources AR/VR Studio Maker Studio Media Studio Meeting Rooms My i-lab Search Explore About Our Staff Visit Community Partners Careers News Current Access Rules Events Upcoming Events Past Events Ventures Venture Teams Venture Stories Our Labs Harvard i-lab Launch Lab X GEO Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab Our Offerings Our Offerings Overview Venture Program President’s Innovation Challenge Funding Opportunities Office Hours Expert Resources Advising Resources AR/VR Studio Maker Studio Media Studio Meeting Rooms My i-lab Search 01. Application02. Selection03. Celebration Back to home page THE ROAD TO THE PRESIDENT’S INNOVATION CHALLENGE The President’s Innovation Challenge (PIC) is an invitation to Harvard students and select alumni & affiliate-led ventures to propel their ideas forward. The PIC is also an opportunity to win a share of $510,000 in non-dilutive funding, made possible by a gift from the Bertarelli Foundation. Throughout the seven-month process, teams develop their ventures with robust support from the Harvard Innovation Labs. 01. Application Eligible ventures prepare and apply for the President’s Innovation Challenge. TIMELINE: November 18 - January 5 02. Selection Accepted Semi-Finalist teams refine and drive their ventures forward. TIMELINE: January - March 03. Celebration Selected Finalists pitch to judges. Awards are presented live at the Awards Ceremony on May 5. TIMELINE: April - May 5 ACT I The President’s Innovation Challenge is an opportunity to move toward a future that’s more connected, more creative, more human. It’s an invitation to develop solutions that can change the narrative. It’s also an invitation to our wider community to discover what’s possible when we lead the work of making life better for the next generation. Apply by January 5, 2022 to join the PIC this spring! Take Me to the Application! How can we create space for new leaders to come to the front? How can we create space for new leaders to come to the front? How can we create space for new leaders to come to the front? How can we create space for new leaders to come to the front? How can we create space for new leaders to come to the front? How can we create space for new leaders to come to the front? What might we discover with curiosity and compassion as our guides? What might we discover with curiosity and compassion as our guides? What might we discover with curiosity and compassion as our guides? What might we discover with curiosity and compassion as our guides? What might we discover with curiosity and compassion as our guides? What might we discover with curiosity and compassion as our guides? How can we design products, systems, and services that reflect how we truly want to live? How can we design products, systems, and services that reflect how we truly want to live? How can we design products, systems, and services that reflect how we truly want to live? How can we design products, systems, and services that reflect how we truly want to live? How can we design products, systems, and services that reflect how we truly want to live? How can we design products, systems, and services that reflect how we truly want to live? As possibilities expand, our futures brighten. 01. The Application WHO IS ELIGIBLE FOR THE PIC? Student Teams That Have Made Substantive Progress on Their Venture When you apply to the 14-week Spring Venture Program at the Harvard Innovation Labs, you can also opt to apply to the President’s Innovation Challenge. Teams that qualify for the PIC have made progress on their venture beyond the initial ideation stages. They likely have gained market traction such as customers, users, signed partnerships, and/or funds from professional investors. Student ventures are placed in one of three tracks: Social Impact Track Health & Life Sciences Track Open Track, for ventures that transcend categories Details for Student Applicants Teams in Launch Lab X GEO and the Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab Venture teams currently in LLX GEO and the Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab are automatically eligible to participate in the President’s Innovation Challenge. A selection of these Harvard alumni and affiliate-led ventures will be invited to apply for the PIC. For more information, please see your program administrator. WHY JOIN THE PIC? Experience Teams accepted to the President’s Innovation Challenge benefit from all the resources at the i-lab, including 1:1 staff advising tailored to your industry, matched mentorship, expert office hours, and networking opportunities. Finalist teams also gain valuable experience pitching to judges. Visibility Throughout the spring, we will showcase many of our teams through social media and other editorial outlets. Teams chosen as Finalists will be invited to participate in the Awards Ceremony attended by the global innovation and investment communities. Prize Money The President’s Innovation Challenge is an opportunity to win a share of $510,000 in prize money, generously provided by the Bertarelli Foundation. The grand prize award for each track is $75,000 The runner-up award is $25,000 Community The conversations you have and the relationships you build are vital toward your progress as a team. Participating fully in a community of passionate entrepreneurs facing similar challenges can buoy you through successes, help you through frustrations, and support you well beyond the PIC experience. WHAT ARE THE PIC TRACKS? Accepted venture teams are placed into the track that is most appropriate for their venture. Each track awards $100,000 total in Bertarelli Foundation prize money. Social Impact The Social Impact Track is open to teams that want to make our planet safer, more equitable, sustainable, and beautiful. The critical issues they address include social equity, the depletion of finite resources, helping artists and cultural traditions thrive, and more. Sub-categories include but are not limited to: arts, equity, education, environment, economic development, food, and sustainable agriculture. Health & Life Sciences The Health & Life Sciences Track is open to any team improving the efficacy of healthcare services, including therapeutics, devices, health systems, health IT, and data analytics. Projects may address a wide range of issues, from improving access to care to realizing the potential of personalized therapies. Open The Open Track recognizes that great ideas can transcend categories and may include commercial enterprises, including both business-to-consumer and business-to-business models. Greater economic opportunity also requires improvements in connectivity, infrastructure, and resource optimization. Sub-categories include but are not limited to: sports, technology, security, consumer products, food and beverage, and virtual and augmented reality applications. Launch Lab X GEO Harvard’s Launch Lab X GEO supports alumni-led ventures across the globe that disrupt and reimagine their industries. LLX GEO participants in the President’s Innovation Challenge are automatically accepted as Semi-Finalists. Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab This category includes groundbreaking biotech and life sciences startups founded by Harvard students, alumni, faculty, and postdoctoral scholars. Pagliuca Harvard Life Lab participants in the President’s Innovation Challenge are automatically accepted as Semi-Finalists. WHEN IS THE PIC? January 1. You apply! PIC applications for students are due by 11:59 pm EST on January 5, 2022. 2. The PIC selection committee evaluates which stage your venture has reached. February 3. PIC Semi-Finalist and Venture Program acceptances are sent out to teams. 4. Semi-Finalists update their applications with new milestones and traction for the Finalist selection. April 5. Judges select 15 student Finalist teams (five in each track) to pitch for the awards. 6. Finalists pitch live in front of a judging panel who will determine the grand prize and runner-up awards for each track. May 7. At the President’s Innovation Challenge Awards Ceremony on May 5, 2022, grand prize and runner-up awards are announced for the $75K and $25K Bertarelli Foundation prizes in each track. Have questions about the PIC? Schedule a 15 minute appointment with an i-lab advisor to ask application questions, determine which track is best for your team, understand the application process, and chat through anything else PIC! You can also… Check out the PIC FAQs. Get to know last year’s Finalist teams. Watch last year’s virtual Awards Ceremony. Sign up to get exclusive PIC tips and stay updated on key dates! TAKE PART IN THE PIC! The PIC is an opportunity to build something necessary and new, and be inspired by what’s possible. It’s also a chance to join an inspired and inspiring community of innovators who care as much about the questions as the solutions. Take the challenge to discover how more human futures are possible! I’m ready to apply! Apply by January 5 to be considered for the 2022 President’s Innovation Challenge. close STUDENT APPLICATION DETAILS The President’s Innovation Challenge is a call to action for matriculated, degree-seeking Harvard students across all 13 Harvard schools—including undergraduates, graduates, postdoctoral fellows, and clinical fellows. Applications are due January 5, 2022 at 11:59 pm EST. Who Is Eligible? For Students The President’s Innovation Challenge is open to venture teams led by at least one matriculated, degree-seeking Harvard student, including undergraduates, graduates, postdoctoral fellows, and clinical fellows. While we encourage collaboration with entrepreneurs, scientists, and industry executives—and welcome participants outside of the Harvard community—we require that a Harvard student be a founder, committed leader, and integral part of each venture team. Teams may only submit one (1) application. Applicants may only be on one (1) application and not be part of multiple teams. One of the venture’s founders must graduate in May 2022 or after. For ventures with non-Harvard affiliates, the application must be submitted by the Harvard affiliate. Use of the i-lab and its resources will be subject to the i-lab’s Terms of Use. Teams or team members can be removed from an i-lab program and/or the President’s Innovation Challenge at the discretion of the i-lab staff team. The limit for capital raised is $750,000 or less in dilutive funding. Teams who have raised more than $750,000 by the application deadline of January 5, 2022, are ineligible to participate. Venture teams that have won a $75,000 or $25,000 prize within the past two years across any PIC track are ineligible to participate in the 2022 PIC. All ventures MUST submit an application by January 5, 2022 in order to participate. Qualifying ventures for the PIC have made progress on their venture beyond the initial ideation stages. Doing so may mean they have gained market traction, such as customers, users, signed partnerships, and/or funds raised from professional investors. We understand that all teams are in the growth stage, and as a part of that process, we recommend that students look at past winners to see examples of teams that have been successful in the President’s Innovation Challenge. Student teams accepted into the President’s Innovation Challenge will be supported in their journey by the i-lab’s Venture Program, which provides 1-1 advising, expert resources, and help with pitch coaching, as well as a vibrant community of entrepreneurs. Ventures at an early stage (who have not yet gained market traction) are still invited to apply for the Venture Program, which provides tailored resources to help launch and advance your venture. close FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Got questions about the President’s Innovation Challenge? Look no further! If your question isn’t answered below, please contact us at i-lab@harvard.edu. If I am selected to participate in the President’s Innovation Challenge, am I also in the Spring Venture Program? Yes, teams selected for the President’s Innovation Challenge develop their ventures throughout the spring within the Venture Program, which is designed to support you as you grow your venture. What happens if I apply for the President’s Innovation Challenge and my venture is not selected to be a semi-finalist? If your venture is not selected for the PIC, it doesn’t mean that your idea isn’t incredible, or that you aren’t likely to succeed. The PIC is for venture teams that have made a certain amount of progress. If you don’t have enough traction yet to join the PIC, we encourage you to participate in our Spring Venture Program to take advantage of our tailored programming and office hours, which can help take your venture to your next milestone. What if I only want to apply to the Spring Venture Program? We encourage you to apply to the i-lab Spring Venture Program by January 5, 2022. It’s all one application. Just indicate that you are not interested in the PIC and complete the other sections of the application. If your venture is still too early in its development (e.g., you are focused on defining your offering and validating your customers), we are still eager to support you! If my venture is selected to participate in the President’s Innovation Challenge but ultimately doesn’t get chosen as a finalist, what happens then? You remain in the Spring Venture Program and can continue developing your venture with the enthusiastic support and resources of the i-lab community. If I win an award at the President’s Innovation Challenge celebration, does the money have to be used in any specific way? You decide what to do with your prize money! It is also non-dilutive, which means you don’t have to give up any equity in your venture to accept the award. Do I have to attend the Awards Ceremony in May to receive a Bertarelli Foundation Award? It’s highly encouraged, but not mandatory, to attend the awards ceremony on May 5 to receive a grand prize or runner-up prize. ACT 2 Innovation depends on connection. And true connection happens when we get comfortable with being uncomfortable, reaching out, and tapping into the collective power of the people around us. When you connect with a community of passionate, diverse, creative people, you can build much, much more than you could have imagined alone. The President’s Innovation Challenge is an invitation to move the world forward together. Curious about the Semi-Finalist Ventures? What problems can we solve when we work across silos and disciplines? What problems can we solve when we work across silos and disciplines? What problems can we solve when we work across silos and disciplines? What does a more caring, supportive innovation ecosystem look like? What does a more caring, supportive innovation ecosystem look like? What does a more caring, supportive innovation ecosystem look like? What collective experiments do we need to run? What collective experiments do we need to run? What collective experiments do we need to run? Our interdependence is our strength. President’s Innovation Challenge 2022 Semi-Finalists WHERE ARE WE NOW? January • Students apply! PIC applications for students closed on January 5, 2022. • PIC student Semi-Finalists are selected, notified of their acceptance and track, and announced. February • Semi-Finalists work on their ventures and update their application with new milestones and traction for the Finalist selection. March • External judges review applications. The judges help select 5 Finalists in each PIC track. • PIC Finalists are selected and announced. April • Finalists refine their pitches, work on their pitch decks, and prepare to pitch live to a panel of judges. • Judges determine which teams will receive the $75,000 and $25,000 Bertarelli Foundation Awards in each track. May • At the President’s Innovation Challenge Awards Ceremony on May 5, 2022, we will announce the $75K and $25K Bertarelli Foundation awards for each of the five tracks. WHO QUALIFIES AS A SEMI-FINALIST? Current full-time Harvard students were invited to opt into the President’s Innovation Challenge when they applied for the 14-week Spring Venture Program. Teams selected as Semi-Finalists had made progress on their venture, meaning that they likely have paid customers or partners, recruited a user base, or have mapped out a path for commercialization. From over 400 applications this year (our highest number ever!), less than 1/3 of the teams were selected to become Semi-Finalists by the PIC selection committee. Successful teams frequently apply to the PIC multiple times, using the feedback they receive from this process to make meaningful progress during the following year. If you were not selected as a Semi-Finalist in 2022, we encourage you to apply next year! MEET THE SEMI-FINALIST TEAMS Semi-Finalist teams are judged by a panel of over 200 PIC Semi-Finalist judges, a diverse mix of entrepreneurs, operators, investors, nonprofit experts, and specialists. The judges evaluate applications based on their experience, specialty, and industry expertise. In addition to scoring and helping to select the Finalist teams in each track, PIC judges also provide critical feedback, which many past teams have found invaluable toward refining their offering and iterating on their venture. STUDENT TRACKS Social Impact (59) .Cambio An app that enables the unbanked to cash in & out, receive wages, and more within 200 meters of their homes, + a network of vendors offering training. School: Harvard Business School Afya Pamoja An SMS patient feedback service providing performance management data for public healthcare managers in Tanzania to improve service quality. School: Harvard Business School Web: afyapamoja.com AkademiX.ai Helping teachers build digital skills faster with artificial intelligence. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: akademi.al Arda Providing a delivery service for critical medical supplies, using drone fleets which operate within existing healthcare supply chains. School: Harvard College LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/ardagroup Barefoot Edu Foundation Coaching principals so that they can find quick and creative ways to overcome school challenges & provide children with quality 21st century education. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: barefootedu.com BUILD Nigeria INC. Creating pathways for low-income and/or first generation Nigerian students to study and thrive at world-class colleges globally. School: Harvard College Web: buildng.org LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/build-nigeria CassVita Inc. A novel technology for increasing the shelf-life of cassava -- a nutritive but rapidly deteriorating tuber -- from 3 days to 18 months. School: Harvard Business School Web: cassvita.com CBOH, Inc. Empowering users to control their digital health identity and share verifiable health statuses with whom they choose. School: Harvard Business School Web: cboh.info Cequest Capturing CO2 from the air and ocean via seawater electrolysis while producing the world’s greenest hydrogen gas. School: Harvard College Web: getcequest.com Climate & Health Equity Practice Fellowship Training physicians representing historically marginalized communities in the Global South on the health effects of climate change, advocacy, and communications. School: Harvard Divinity School Web: publichealthsociety.org Code Your Chances Introducing young girls to the creative uses of computer science and how they can apply their unique creativity to tech. School: Harvard Law School Web: codeyourchances.com Creative Bamboo A creativity and development center for children from 0-12 that delivers enrichment programs and theater productions. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: creativebamboo.mn Dear Loneliness A crowdsourced art exhibit, research study, and COVID-19 archival effort collecting thousands of letters on loneliness from around the world. School: Harvard College Web: dearloneliness.com Debate Spaces Connecting and empowering middle schoolers worldwide, teaching debate to foster critical thinking, cultural empathy, and civic engagement. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: debatespaces.org Earthacre Incorporated Using remote sensing and proven regeneration techniques to restore indigenous owned lands and create differentiated carbon credits. School: Harvard Kennedy School Electric Rehri Affordable, electric, modular and sustainable carts for street vendors in Indian cities. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design Web: gaurinagpal.com/rehri Flame Bearers: The Women Athletes Blazing the Trail to Beijing Elevating the voices of unsung, diverse women Olympians and Paralympians. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: flamebearerspodcast.com Flare Education High-quality professional training, paid workforce opportunities, and career development for high school students. School: Harvard Business School Web: flare-education.org Freedom Cups Getting reusable menstrual products to women through a buy-1, give-1 model that allows us to work with underprivileged communities. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: freedomcups.org GarboCarbo Capturing carbon dioxide from power plant emissions by creating a long-term carbon storage byproduct (limestone). School: Harvard College Generation Girl A non-profit organization in Indonesia that equips young women with hard and soft skills to become future leaders through STEM-based programs. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: generationgirl.org Jamii Life Providing home-based care for people that can't help themselves and training family caregivers to become accredited health workers. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Web: jamiilife.com Kia Kia Health A hybrid, tech-driven intervention aimed at creating access to reproductive health information and services for girls and young women. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: kiakiahealth.com Klara Building an Indonesian mental health & wellness ecosystem by providing on-demand access to healthcare professionals & personalized self-care resources. School: Harvard Medical School Web: klara.id Knowledge to Enable Your Success (KEYS) Developing C'bbean youth into change agents & leaders through innovative programs geared at achieving collective literacy and a sustainable region. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: yoursuccesskeys.org Mandala A DEI platform for people of color that focuses on the intersection of inclusion & well-being. School: Harvard Business School Web: mandalaforus.com MiKashBoks A digital social finance platform designed to support self-help, peer-based group saving and lending. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: mikashboks.com MyCode A coding academy that aims to bring quality computer programming education to K-12 students across the Philippines. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: mycode.ph Narratio Activating, supporting, and highlighting the creative expression of refugee youth through fellowships, workshops, publishing, and partnerships. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: Narratio.org National Environmental Solutions Company (NESCO) Specializing in the development of environmental-friendly biological products and technology by means of bacteria cultivation. School: Harvard College Web: nesco-me.com Net3allem A nonprofit that provides Montessori pre-schooling for low-income students, and employment opportunities and sponsorships for our alumni student network. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Novustack Creating and investing in the next generation of African innovators through training, community, and opportunity to work at startups. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: novustack.com Pinpoint Donation Streamlining the in-kind donation process by matching donors of households goods with charities or families that need those goods. School: Harvard College Web: pinpointdonation.org PODEROSAS A sexual education program to strengthen low-income communities' youths' power of decision over their body, sexuality & life with innovative methodology. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: poderosascolombia.org Project Us Using AI and bio-signal processing to unveil emotional dynamics of interactions, helping people become more inclusive leaders. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: media.mit.edu/projects/project-us/overview ProtectED Solutions LLC Providing furniture that protects against domestic terrorism and active shooter violence in schools, government buildings, and offices. School: Harvard Business School Web: protectedrooms.com Puentes Community Translators Training young adults from low-income immigrant areas to become professional translators and help bridge language barriers in their communities. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: puentestranslators.com Purple Point Neurodiagnostics LLC Using an innovative approach to address the gap in epilepsy diagnosis in low and middle income countries. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Web: purplepointneurodiagnostics.com RegenerateLand Providing a software technology platform for low-cost, transparent monitoring and reporting, and verifying (MRV) land based carbon credits. School: Harvard Kennedy School Residents Abroad An online platform facilitating international rotations for doctors around the globe. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Web: residentsabroad.org Rhymes with Reason An e-learning app that helps students learn important English words by showcasing their existence in widely known music lyrics. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: rhymeswithreason.com Root A gamified educational intervention that promotes learning, feedback, and regular assessment of developmentally appropriate math milestones. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: learnwithroot.mystrikingly.com Roundtable Building the preeminent social and expert network for state/local government, starting with those in Child Welfare & Election Security. School: Harvard Business School Web: roundtable-gov.com SCRIPTern Program Selecting minority students from Boston College, pairing them with a physician at Boston, and teaching them to scribe notes at clinic visits. School: Harvard Medical School Web: childrenshospital.org/about-us/health-equity/fenwick-institute Skew The Script Providing free, socially relevant math curriculum to teachers. School: Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Web: skewthescript.org Slam Out Loud Using the visual and performing arts to enable children from disadvantaged backgrounds to find their voice. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: slamoutloud.com Soulsmile Club A tech nonprofit that donates up to 20% of online purchases to charities of the users' choice at no additional cost. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design Web: soulsmile.club Stuttering Scholarship Alliance Offering the first framework to provide affordable and effective stuttering therapy. School: Harvard Medical School Web: stutteringalliance.org Synses Designs Providing 3D printed models perceptible by the sense of touch to improve access to STEM education for students with disabilities. School: Harvard Medical School Web: synsesdesigns.com The Equity Network Helping Black, Latinx and Native American candidates book free 1-on-1 conversations with professionals in their dream jobs. School: Harvard Business School Web: theequitynetwork.com The Yappie A leading publication dedicated to tracking the rise of political power in Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) communities. School: Harvard College Web: theyappie.com Thrive Industries Incorporated (THRIVE!) Helping local governments budget for equity and economic mobility. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: equitywillthrive.com Todaydream Providing an online platform for schools, nonprofits, and families to enlist diverse leading professionals who share their stories, and empower youth. School: Harvard Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Web: todaydream.com UCSF Health and Human Rights Initiative Supporting asylum seekers by offering forensic medical evaluations, performing research, training clinicians, and participating in advocacy. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Web: humanrights.ucsf.edu UpstartED Building programs at the intersection of SEL, civic education and STEM to elevate the potential of at-risk and equity-seeking children and youth. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: upstarted.org Vaiven Democratizing access to finance by connecting borrowers with the best credits available in the market. Fast. Simple. Free. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: vaiven.mx WeUnlearn We aim to reduce the gender gap by addressing harmful gender norms using an AI based chatbot for teens using cognitive and behavioral psychology. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: weunlearn.org yas A language learning app that uses AI to create brain-friendly and adaptive learning experiences. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: sayyas.co Youth International Summit Creating impactful, accessible leadership opportunities to students in over 100 countries through virtual programs on career skills and debate. School: Harvard College Web: yismun.com Health & Life Sciences (26) Acurasset Therapeutics Developing a cure for Hepatitis B that could rid patients of the virus within months. School: Harvard Medical School Apoth A behavior change platform that improves mental health outcomes by facilitating client engagement, tracking behaviors, and analyzing trends. School: Harvard College Web: apoth.app A-SEP Providing an affordable, accessible, and accurate point-of-care diagnostic kit for sepsis. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design Blue Ocean Therapeutics Developing personalized neoantigen-targeted diagnostics and cell therapies for Focal Cortical Dysplasia Type II. School: Harvard Medical School Cache DNA Providing indefinite storage and access to nucleic acid samples, reducing the space, costs, and energy for biorepositories and archival data storage. School: Harvard Business School Web: cache-dna.xyz Canopy Innovations, Inc. Seeking to eliminate the language barrier in healthcare by offering tech-enabled solutions that go beyond medical interpreters. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: withcanopy.com CardioPhi Providing AI solutions for interpreting electrocardiograms (ECG/EKGs), especially the detection and prediction of heart arrhythmias. School: Harvard Medical School CareList A HIPAA-compliant, AI-enabled platform for building care plans, collaborating on tasks & automating follow-ups. School: Harvard Business School Web: carelist.io Coprata A smart toilet company that offers automated technology to analyze human waste. School: Harvard Business School Web: coprata.com Dear Mémé A date-driven, semi-customized activity subscription kit service for seniors with dementia and their caregivers. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: dearmeme.com Dominant mRNA Therapies Creating genetically dominant mRNA therapies to combat viral evolution/infection by incorporating proteins into them & destroying them from the inside. School: Harvard Business School DoriVac Developing therapeutic cancer vaccines and preventive infectious disease vaccines using a DNA nanotechnology platform called DNA origami. School: Harvard Business School FIXUS Detecting orthopaedic diseases using the AI-based FIXUS and learning orthopedics by playing games. School: Harvard Medical School Web: advances.massgeneral.org/ortho/video.aspx?id=1171 FollowUp Health, Inc. Ensuring that patients understand their visit and discharge plan. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Web: redscales.github.io/followup-static HealthDeck A mobile-first platform that makes capturing, understanding, and sharing one’s complete medical history as simple as using Instagram. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design Web: healthdeck.app Ilios Therapeutics Leveraging proprietary therapeutics molecules with strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties to prevent and counter neurodegenerations. School: Harvard Kennedy School Kiikter Creating a low-cost edible gel fortified with key micronutrients to reduce malnutrition anemia. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Web: kiikter.com Limax Biosciences Limax has developed a degradable adhesive hydrogel to augment vascular reconstruction and serve as a hemostatic agent in advanced bleeding scenarios. School: Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Web: limaxbiosciences.com Melanin Doc Connect A platform connecting people of color to culturally competent providers and minority-specific health information. School: Harvard Business School Web: melanindocs.com/connect/ MyoExo Developing a wearable system to monitor the cardinal signs of Parkinson’s Disease, without a clinician, and from the comfort of a person’s home. School: Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences One Therapeutics A digital therapeutic for insomnia. Patients install a mobile app that guides them through a multi-week clinical program for better sleep. School: Harvard Business School Web: slumber.one Trial Atlas, Inc. Making clinical trials more patient-centered by helping sponsors recruit, engage, and retain trial participants. School: Harvard Business School Web: trialatlas.com Vacuum-Assisted wound Therapy Affordable foR All (VATARA) Dedicated to providing an effective, low-cost negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) alternative to traditional NPWT devices. School: Harvard Medical School Web: ortho.hms.harvard.edu/harvard-global-orthopaedics-collaborative Vita An entrant solution that will save many lives through a digital system for real-time matching of the supply of blood products to demand. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Vitally Health We are the Google Maps for heart disease, using several layers of clinical and molecular data to map early diagnosis and digital therapies. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Web: vitally.health ZircoPlant Developing innovative technologies enabling clinicians to predictably perform autogenous therapies for dental tissue regeneration. School: Harvard School of Dental Medicine Open (63) Bemlo A healthcare recruitment platform. School: Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Blend A mobile app that helps you create groups with your friends and meet new people the way you do in real life: together. School: Harvard College Candelytics Building the digital infrastructure to support the visualization, analysis, and sharing of 3D data. School: Harvard Business School Web: candelytics.io Capsula A nostalgic technology company; our app changes how people live and relive by creating a home for personal, family, and social memories. School: Harvard College Web: capsula.xyz Cardinal LCA An early-stage digital tool for architects that analyzes the environmental impacts of design decisions. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design Web: cardinallca.com CashEx A currency exchange platform that leverages AI to help migrants transfer money with zero fees. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: cashex.ai Chord Making online communities more real, more impactful, and more valuable to their members while saving community leaders time & effort. School: Harvard Business School Web: thechord.io Compass An SMS platform designed to streamline patient intake, scheduling, and follow-up through asynchronous automation. School: Harvard Medical School Web: compass-sms.com Crimson Coach A full-Harvard team providing creative academic and career exploration programs for Chinese students who plan to study abroad. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Crimson Tech Educating doctors about data science in a less technical way. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Web: i-lab-harvard-edu.ilab.staging.wpengine.com/current-team/healthdatarecipe-ai Current Electric Incorporated Manufacturing and providing smart, fast-charging products to build out an open EV charging network supporting the transportation of tomorrow. School: Harvard Extension School Web: current-electric.co Cyphr Building real-time collaboration software for music creators. School: Harvard Business School Web: cyphrmusic.com dData Providing real-time, granular economic maps using AI for governments to make better policy decisions. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: ddata.tech Dil Internship Project Reshaping the narrative surrounding developing countries and making them natural destinations for skills and talent by plugging competency shortages. School: Harvard Law School Web: dilinternshipproject.com Elf A wellness app connecting body health & indoor environment by offering personalized suggestions about environmental improvements and behavioral change. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design Even Cargo (ELPL) India's first women-led, last mile logistics company, catering to clients like Amazon and Walmart. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: evencargo.in Flow Coffee engineered for optimal thinking—twice the energy, no jitters or caffeine crash, and improved brainpower with every sip. School: Harvard College Web: flowcoffee.us Fluna Corp Working capital financing + treasury analytics tools for African businesses. School: Harvard Business School Web: fluna.co FORAY bioscience Creating a future where wood-based products can be generated without cutting down a single tree. School: Harvard Business School FYVO - Find Your Voice Helping language learners struggling with pronunciation to improve speaking skills through personalised exercises based on immersive media. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: Fyvo.co Garage Mobility An online marketplace for auto parts & servicing in Africa. School: Harvard Business School Web: garagemobility.com Goo, Inc. Developing a bio-based, biodegradable 3D printing filament and running a 3D printing recycling program. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design Web: gooventures.com Green Alpha Developing autonomous last mile delivery electric vehicles. School: Harvard Business School HarvestHaul Building a digital marketplace for local farmers to sell direct-to-consumer, creating a fresher and more sustainable food shopping experience. School: Harvard College Web: harvesthaul.com Helthy Helping people with prediabetes and diabetes grocery shop smarter. School: Harvard Medical School Web: shophelthy.com/signup-1 Hibiscus Monkey A DTC venture on a mission to become India's first body specialist brand, one that is powered by plants and ancient wellness rituals. School: Harvard Business School Web: hibiscusmonkey.com HiHome The first Instant Home Matching platform, delivering the fastest and most personalized home search experience ever. Here, the home finds you! School: Harvard Business School Web: gohihome.com Hive Health Digital health insurance for SMBs in the Philippines, providing simple, affordable, quality health plans through a data science-powered platform. School: Harvard Business School Web: ourhivehealth.com Hue A beauty tech platform that recommends the best makeup products for shoppers’ skin tone. School: Harvard Business School Web: tryhuebeauty.com Jasper Cocktails, Inc. A maker of zero-proof cocktails intended for drinkers and nondrinkers alike. School: Harvard Business School Web: jaspercocktails.com Kern Tutoring Providing tier 2 and tier 3 intervention services to school districts and private tutoring for our community. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: kerntutoring.com Keto Kind A clinical nutrition brand making science-backed products to support metabolic health in patients. School: Harvard College Web: ketokind.com La Huerta de Elisa Creating nutritious baby food for children in Mexico by working with local farmers and cold-pressing our products to preserve nutrients. School: Harvard Business School Web: lahuertadeelisa.mx Larsen Facilitating feedback between coworkers and delivering a dashboard for managers to gain visibility into their teams' wellbeing. School: Harvard Business School Web: larsen.ai LINK Enabling individuals to meet new people, discover events, and have great IRL experiences with their friends. School: Harvard College Web: link.social Lit Language proficiency through digital stories. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: learnlit.online Low Fuel An app-based company that delivers gas directly to you. School: Harvard College Web: low-fuel.com Mineral Forecast A drill hole targeting solution that dramatically improves drilling success for mining exploration teams using the data they’re already producing today. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: mineralforecast.com Mission: Mentor Using data to empower people to make better decisions, starting with college admissions. School: Harvard College Web: missionmentor.org MOVZ The first app that uses pose estimation computer vision to provide a game-like experience when learning popular dances. School: Harvard Extension School Web: anybodymovz.com Northwood Space Supplying interoperable low-cost satellite communication links between earth and space. School: Harvard Law School Oak Systems A personalized shopping experience; we recommend products by Black-owned brands tailored to your personal care/grooming goals. School: Harvard College Web: myoaksystem.com Pathlight Building an AI-powered hiring platform that helps jobseekers break into tech and helps companies source and vet that diverse talent. School: Harvard Business School Web: joinpathlight.com Patient First.AI Developing a digital health card just like your bank vCard. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Web: patientfirstai.com Phu’s Phone Emporium We buy, sell, and repair phones & other electronics at an affordable price with a focus on superior customer service, quality work, & integrity. School: Harvard College ProDream Education Improving access to higher education for community college students. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: prodreamedu.com Quidio A short-form knowledge marketplace where users can ask a question, put a bounty on it, and get a great answer. School: Harvard College Web: quidio.co Raho A hospitality chain that provides quality space and service by renovating and managing homes/apartments that have been leased from property owners. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design RESE Letting you invest in real estate just like in stocks – buy property shares from your phone with as little as $25, earn from rent and appreciation. School: Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Web: rese.us Sellwithotto.ai Automating personalized cold outreach by finding the intersection points between the sender and receiver. School: Harvard Business School Web: sellwithotto.ai Shi & Lewis A PhD network that helps investors and industry practitioners access cutting-edge academic resources. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: shilewis.com Soxton Connecting the digitally-native world with aging adults. School: Harvard Law School Stochastic Making the best AI accessible to everyone. School: Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Web: stochastic.ai Syzygy Space Seeking to clear small, hard-to-track debris out of Earth's crucial orbits in order to make space safer and more accessible to all. School: Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences The NRI Nation A news network catering to the Non-Resident Indian (NRI) population worldwide, covering the local and international NRI community. School: Harvard Extension School Web: mynrination.com Think and Speak Academy Offering world-class online debate and argumentation training to young people all around the world. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Web: tasacademy.pl Tomo Labs Engineered to restore balance and function to your body after drinking with ingredients that help attack the underlying causes of discomfort. School: Harvard Business School Web: tomolabs.co Toppings: Free Food w/ Friends Solving the delivery problem of high fees by empowering local members of the community to deliver when they are going out for food/groceries. School: Harvard College Web: toppingsapp.com Trove Market (Formally Impeccable Wate) Diverting excess shelf-stable, packaged food away from landfills and into consumers' homes. School: Harvard Business School Web: troveshop.co Tutu Helping high school and college students in China effectively explore majors and career pathways that fit them best. School: Harvard Kennedy School tys, llc For time-pressed women in need of a manicure, we provide the easiest way to book an appointment. School: Harvard Business School Web: experiencetys.com UCNLEARN Empowering teachers to deliver reading intervention effectively using a tablet for learning one-on-one, in groups, and independently. School: Harvard Graduate School of Education Zesti A social application that helps college students connect with each other, find things to do near campus, and save money at the same time. School: Harvard College Web: zestiharvard.com Launch Lab X GEO (#) Life Lab (#) ALUMNI & AFFILIATE TRACK All Alumni & Affiliate Ventures (20) Adaptilens Revolutionizing vision correction by restoring the eye's ability to focus. School: Harvard Medical School Web: www.adaptilens.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/adaptilens Agency Enterprise-grade cybersecurity for individuals and growing companies. School: Harvard Extension School Web: GetAgency.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/getagency1 Artus Therapeutics Developing first-in-class oral therapeutics for barrier dysfunction diseases. School: Harvard Medical School Web: artustx.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/artus-tx Aurie Partnering with the disabled community to redesign essential medical devices. School: Harvard College Web: www.livewithaurie.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/aurie-catheters BioDevek Developing next generation, material-based surgical solutions. School: Harvard Medical School Web: biodevek.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/biodevek Burq Making it easy for businesses to offer delivery to their customers. School: Harvard Extension School Web: burqup.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/burq CaviSense Improving oral health through early intervention and at-home monitoring. School: Harvard School of Dental Medicine Web: www.cavisense.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/cavisense Delfina Using the power of data to improve maternal and child health outcomes. School: Harvard College Web: delfina.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/delfinacare Empowered Homes Making it easy for households & businesses to get solar & storage energy solutions. School: Harvard Kennedy School Web: www.empowered.homes LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/empowered-homes-solar Holistick Medical Developing a flexible device for atraumatic treatment of common cardiac defects. School: Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Web: www.holistick-medical.com/home LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/holistick-medical Imago Rehab A robot-assisted virtual clinic for stroke recovery. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design Web: imagorehab.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/imago-rehab Kern Systems Using enzymes and cutting-edge software to store digital data in DNA. School: Harvard Medical School Web: www.kernsystems.com Kiwi Biosciences Helping the 15% of the population with IBS enjoy food without pain. School: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Web: www.fodzyme.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/kiwi-biosciences M13 Therapeutics Delivering any gene to any cell with our unique phage-derived particle. School: Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Web: m13tx.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/m13-therapeutics Metric Providing software to measure, benchmark, and improve ESG performance. School: Harvard Business School Web: www.metric-esg.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/metric Naya Studio The Figma for phygital product design. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design Web: naya.studio LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/studio-naya Promakhos Therapeutics A therapeutics platform for curing inflammatory disorders. School: Harvard Faculty of Arts & Sciences Web: www.promakhos.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/promakhos-therapeutics Rentdrop Facilitating rent payments between renters & landlords. School: Harvard College Web: getrentdrop.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/rentdrop Snapi Health DTC gut microbiome tests for the first 3 years of life. School: Harvard Graduate School of Design Web: getsnapi.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/snapi-health Stratagen Bio Transforming treatment planning in oncology with quantitative oxygen sensing. School: Blavatnik Fellow in Life Science Entrepreneurship Web: www.StratagenBio.com LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/stratagenbio What’s Coming Up for This Year’s Semi-Finalists? Check out last year’s Finalists & award recipients to see where the road leads next! ACT 3 The entrepreneurial journey is always asking us to look up, around us, and beyond ourselves. It is not linear. The ventures that we see every day here at the Harvard Innovation Labs reflect the courage, nimbleness, and playfulness it takes to innovate. When we bring a more human approach to venture creation and to our lives, everything opens up. During our 10th anniversary year, we are reminded that we are surrounded by the potential for more creativity, more goodness, and more humanity with each other. The opportunity to create new worlds and ways of being is all around us. Join us on May 5, 2022, as we celebrate the President’s Innovation Challenge Finalist ventures and announce which teams will be awarded a share of $510,000 in Bertarelli Foundation Awards! Meet the Finalists & Winners What possibilities emerge when we explore beyond our comfort zones? What possibilities emerge when we explore beyond our comfort zones? What possibilities emerge when we explore beyond our comfort zones? When is play the right process toward a serious solution? When is play the right process toward a serious solution? When is play the right process toward a serious solution? What unexpected doors open when we let our vision lead? What unexpected doors open when we let our vision lead? What unexpected doors open when we let our vision lead? Let’s create the future together. 2022 President’s Innovation Challenge WHERE ARE WE NOW? April • Finalists refine their pitches, work on their pitch decks, and prepare to pitch live to a panel of judges. • Judges determine which teams will receive awards. May • At the President’s Innovation Challenge Awards Ceremony on May 5, 2022, we will announce the $75,000 and $25,000 Bertarelli Foundation Awards for each of the five tracks. Get to Know This Year’s Finalists and Winners! Harvard University Sign up for Updates Contact Us Digital Accessibility Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Facebook Instagram Twitter Copyright © 2011 - 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Search