Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Innovation Office of Innovation right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow In the News Meet the Team right arrow down arrow David J. Adams Ideas / Inventions right arrow down arrow Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Startups right arrow down arrow Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Makerspace right arrow down arrow Equipment Service Center Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub right arrow down arrow Strategic Partners Floor by Floor Agreements right arrow down arrow Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Contact Student Engagement Office of Innovation » Ideas / Inventions Set Navigation title in component Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Ideas / Inventions An idea buried in a research paper or inside the head of its innovator often lacks the next level of resources needed to make real-world impact. We’re here to help guide you with the resources you need to advance your knowledge and ideas into societal impact. The Office of Innovation’s technology transfer team is comprised of specialists in licensing, business development and legal matters, with vast experience in transferring technologies across a broad array of research and innovation fields. Do you want to make a positive impact on society? Would the transfer of your knowledge result in a sense of personal fulfillment? Does recognition and financial reward for your discovery sound appealing? Are you forever focused on generating additional funding for your department or center? Do you want to attract research sponsors? Does the idea of creating educational opportunities for your students excite you? What about linking students to future job opportunities? The Office of Innovation exists to help you reach any one of the above listed goals. To find how we might help you, start by sharing your idea and clicking the button below. Share Your Idea 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top