Michigan State University Search Tool MSU Innovation Center Home About Newsroom Latest News News Archive Mobility Features Staff Highlights Inventor Spotlight Events Staff Our Staff Meet the Teams Contact How can we help? Corporate Engagement Tech Transfer & Commercialization Startups & Entrepreneurship MSU Innovation Center The Innovation Center is Michigan State University’s hub for creating partnerships that develop economic value from the research and creativity happening across our campus every day. We are dedicated to helping faculty and students translate their discoveries and knowledge into products and services that make life better. Corporate Engagement Tech Transfer & Commercialization Startups & Entrepreneurship Who will lead the future of innovation? Spartans Will. Corporate Engagement Our corporate engagement team works to create connections between MSU researchers and corporations to establish productive collaborations that advance the mission of both parties. Learn More Tech Transfer & Commercialization Our commercialization team works with faculty to facilitate the public use of technologies and copyrightable materials developed by MSU faculty and staff. We help develop and translate innovations from the lab to the marketplace. Learn More Startups & Entrepreneurship Our entrepreneurship team works with faculty and students to create investment-ready businesses through support that helps develop their ideas, create business plans and launch new startups. Learn More PARTNERSHIP WITH THE MSU FOUNDATION MSU Foundation The MSU Foundation helps bridge the gap between ideas and successful companies with a venture creation process built on programming, investment, spaces and our community. Learn More NEWSROOM Top Story MSU entrepreneur prepares for next steps May 5, 2022 By Alysa Kirn When one door closes, another opens. For graduating Supply Chain Management senior Brendan Wang, the door is wide open for new opportunities as he accelerates the momentum of a technology that is helping put an end the nation’s vaping epidemic. As a teenager who... Continue Reading View All Stories MEET OUR TALENTED TEAMS Meet Our Incubators and Real Estate Team The Incubators & Real Estate Team spurs placemaking and economic development for startups and established companies through spaces such as incubators, corporate innovation and research space and multi-tenant flex space. The team works together to support these companies by providing resources and space in which the companies can grow. “Our team is small, efficient, and … Continued Gabriela M. Allum Project Manager Units: Spartan Innovations Teams: Incubators and Real Estate Jeff Smith Director of the University Corporate Research Park Teams: Incubators and Real Estate Learn More See All Teams CONNECT WITH US ON SOCIAL Stay Connected SIGN UP FOR OUR E-NEWS Call Us: (517) 355-2186 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondescrimination SPARTANS WILL. © Michigan State University Back To Top Twitter Instagram Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Email Newsletter