Search Submit Skip Navigation Site navigation About Virtual Tour 2021 Annual Report Nebraska Innovation Studio The Scarlet Hotel Parking at NIC Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Sustainability Staff Board & Committees Leasing Options Value Proposition Virtual Tour Rise Building The Combine Biotech Connector Innovation Commons Food Innovation Center Greenhouse Innovation Center Leasing Options Build on NIC Partners Internships & Careers How to Partner with NIC Featured Partners Walking Paths BikeLNK at NIC NIC Portal Events NIC Events NIC Conference Center The Club at The Mill Coffee & Bistro Secondary site navigation News Contact Directions Parking Like Nebraska Innovation Campus on Facebook Follow Nebraska Innovation Campus on Twitter Follow Nebraska Innovation Campus on LinkedIn Menu Search Spaces and Culture That Inspire Play Video Virtual Tour Nebraska Innovation Campus video Close Nebraska Innovation Campus (NIC) is a campus designed to facilitate new and in-depth partnerships between the University of Nebraska and private sector businesses. It is the place to build the big idea, where imagination meets hard work, and collaboration yields results. NIC provides you and your organization access to culture, talent and resources. The Latest HRTM grad begins career at The Scarlet Hotel Two Nebraska startups get federal small-business grants More News Events Closed in Observance of Memorial Day Monday, May 30, 2022 - 7:00am to 8:00pm Nebraska Innovation Campus Sundering Microcosm, An Art Exhibition Monday, May 30, 2022 - 8:00am to 8:00pm Link, 2nd Floor Sundering Microcosm, An Art Exhibition Tuesday, May 31, 2022 - 8:00am to 8:00pm Link, 2nd Floor More Events NuTek Natural Ingredients NuTek Natural Ingredients utilizes NIC for their health and wellness ingredients Read more about NuTek Natural Ingredients Why choose NIC? Calling NIC home opens the door to numerous advantages. Among them: Access to culture Immerse your team in a collaborative and innovative culture with an environment designed for the sharing of ideas and their synergistic development. Access to talent Connect with research partners, qualified employees and motivated students. Our campus has a variety of partners and is set up in close proximity to the University of Nebraska-Lincoln allowing you the opportunity for collaboration. Access to resources Become an affiliate employee of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln with complimentary access to UNL libraries, ability to connect with faculty and students, access to facilities, and more. Conference Center Full service conference center with multi-functional meeting and collaboration space. Innovation Studio On-site makerspace where creators of all sorts can share ideas, tools and knowledge. The Mill Coffee & Bistro Craft coffee roaster, espresso bar and tea house serving breakfast, lunch, small plates, snacks, wine and beer. Footer content Nebraska Innovation Campus 2021 Transformation Drive Lincoln, NE 68508 USA 402-472-5535 innovate@unl.edu The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is an equal opportunity educator and employer. For current job openings, visit employment.unl.edu. © 2022 Nebraska Innovation Campus