Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Innovation Office of Innovation right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow In the News Meet the Team right arrow down arrow David J. Adams Ideas / Inventions right arrow down arrow Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Startups right arrow down arrow Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Makerspace right arrow down arrow Equipment Service Center Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub right arrow down arrow Strategic Partners Floor by Floor Agreements right arrow down arrow Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Contact Student Engagement Office of Innovation » About Set Navigation title in component In the News Meet the Team David J. Adams About The Office of Innovation was formed in 2017 when the University’s 30th president, Dr. Neville G. Pinto, completed a new strategic direction called “Next Lives Here” with an Innovation Agenda as one of its primary platforms. Now a part of and the nerve center for the newly formed Cincinnati Innovation District®. If you are focused on accessing student talent, research talent or educational resources offered within the Cincinnati Innovation District®, contact us to learn more. Since its creation, this office has: Developed a ‘front door’ process for industry partners to access talent, and recruited nine strategic partners to co-locate next to the university in the 1819 Innovation Hub. Attracted over 50,000 students, faculty, staff, and community members in its first year of operation. Generated record commercialization metrics for the Univ. of Cincinnati in terms of inventions and startups launched. Developed tiered licensing options for industry, that make it clear upfront that we are serious about doing business and generating deal flow. Implemented an ‘express license’ option to increase the velocity of potential startups. Brought online a makerspace + microfactory serving the entire university, that has seen over 1,400 users in its first 9 months of operation. Recruited CincyTech (entrepreneurial service provider for Southwest Ohio) to the 1819 Innovation Hub to support entrepreneurial efforts. Hosted academic classes in the 1819 building focused on innovation, entrepreneurship, cross-disciplinary problem-solving, or engagement with industry. 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top