Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Innovation Office of Innovation right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow In the News Meet the Team right arrow down arrow David J. Adams Ideas / Inventions right arrow down arrow Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Startups right arrow down arrow Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Makerspace right arrow down arrow Equipment Service Center Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub right arrow down arrow Strategic Partners Take a Tour Events/Programming Floor by Floor Agreements right arrow down arrow Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Contact Student Engagement Office of Innovation » Makerspace » Service Center Set Navigation title in component Equipment Service Center Member Portal Service Center We are here to support Research and Innovation at UC. The Ground Floor offers full-service machining and additive manufacturing services with streamlined business processes to keep you focused on what matters most: your research. Our team is available to consult at any phase of a project: · Ideation · CAD Development · Design for Manufacturing The Makerspace team is available to consult at any phase of a project, from ideation, to CAD development, to design for manufacturing, and are equipped to help you speed your project to the lab or to market. Service Center Maching Full service 2, 3, and 4-axis in metals, plastics, wood, and composites. Additive Manufacturing Full service 2, 3, and 4-axis in metals, plastics, wood, and composites FDM (fused deposition modeling) 3d printing in a range of materials including PLA, ABS, ASA, Nylon 12, Nylon 12 CF, and Ultem 9085. SLA (photopolymer) 3d printing in a range of materials. 1 – precision machined mold for a medical device prototype 2 – Precision machined split needle for a medical device prototype 3 – SLA 3d printed device prototypes To activate your membership, login to our member portal using your UC credentials. From here you can access our orientation, consent to our user agreement and explore the opportunities available to you as a member of the UC community. Contact us (makerspae@uc.edu) for a 15-minute project consultation to discuss how we can help advance your research. Click for Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top