Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Innovation-Led Economic Development Menu Close Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Home About Us About How We Make a Difference EI2 Monthly Newsletter Connecting with GT Resources Annual Report Leadership Staff Directory Atlanta Office Regional Offices Careers Programs Commercialization VentureLab I-Corps Entrepreneurship ATDC Engage Accelerator Business Services GaMBDA Contracting Academy EDL GaMEP GTPAC SHES (OSHA) SETAAC Enterprise 6 Success Stories News Contact Us About Us Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2) is Georgia Tech’s business outreach organization and serves as the primary vehicle to achieve Georgia Tech’s goal of expanded local, regional, and global outreach. EI2 is the nation’s largest and most comprehensive university-based program of business and industry assistance, technology commercialization, and economic development. When compared to counterparts at other universities, EI2 is unique because we bring all of these areas of expertise into a single organization and are able to connect our clients to more than one program or service to meet your individual needs. Reporting through the executive vice-president for research at Georgia Tech, EI2 serves startups, industry, the public sector, and students to help increase your bottom line, improve competitiveness, and positively impact the economy. In addition, EI2 provides connections to Georgia Tech’s vast resources, including world-class research, state-of-the-art facilities, internationally recognized experts, and upper-echelon students. EI2 Mission EI2’s mission is to increase the competitiveness of enterprises in Georgia through the application of science, technology, and innovation. Through the expertise of EI2’s staff and faculty, who have years of practical hands-on experience; connections to Georgia Tech resources; and statewide partners, EI2 is able to add tremendous organizational value to the efforts of our clients. EI2 Vision Redefine the service role of the technological research university in the 21st Century economy. EI2 Senior Staff Click here for a list of EI2 senior staff, bios, and contact information. EI2 Regional Offices EI2 operates a statewide network of nine regional offices in Georgia to assist you. Our regional managers work and live within the areas they serve. If you have questions about any of our services, or about how to connect your company or community to Georgia Tech resources, contact the regional manager in your area. Click here for a list of the region managers, their contact information, and the counties within their specific regions. EI2 Staff Click here for a list of all EI2 staff and contact information. EI2 Facilities EI2 is located in the Centergy Building in Midtown Atlanta. Situated in Technology Square, the home to academic, commercial, residential, and retail tenants, our facilities provide commercial leasing opportunities and a variety of conference room options to technology entrepreneurs, investors, non-profits, and Georgia Tech corporate strategic partners. Visit the TechOnFifth website for more information. Click here for directions to the Centergy Building. Resources Search EI2 Resources Enterprise Innovation Institute 75 5th Street NW Atlanta, GA 30308 Phone: 404-894-2222 Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Log In Powered by Professional Web Presence (PWP) Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accreditation Employment THIS PAGE IS NOT A PUBLICATION OF THE GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AND THE GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY HAS NOT EDITED OR EXAMINED THE CONTENT. THE AUTHOR(S) OF THE PAGE ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CONTENT. © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology