Skip to main content Skip to main content News Contact Lease Space UH Technology Bridge Community The Park Technologies Industry Houston Innovation Community The Park Technologies Industry Houston Innovation News Contact Us Lease Space A Network for an Innovation City Forging partnerships to grow Houston’s burgeoning innovation ecosystem Home Houston Innovation Houston Innovation A Network for an Innovation City Forging partnerships to grow Houston’s burgeoning innovation ecosystem Houston Innovation Network UH is committed to supporting Houston's growing Innovation Economy. That means we are dedicated to finding the right location and resources for all startups to have the greatest chance of success. We partner with incubators around the Houston area to commercialize technologies and help startups get launched. TECH Map The Technology and Entrepreneur Community of Houston (TECH) Map was developed by UH to showcase Houston's innovation ecosystem, raise awareness of early-stage companies and their technologies, and increase connectivity across our innovation community. InnovationMap shines a spotlight on innovation in Houston within startups, tech, health, energy, social impact, and more. Read some of the latest headlines on Houston Innovation below. MassChallenge Texas names its top 10 companies in its Houston cohort The 54-company cohort, the second based in Houston since the program's launch last year, was challenged early on to pivot to virtual acceleration over the four-month experience. InnovationMap Education company launches innovative virtual platform at Houston school Kïdo, an international network of preschools, recently introduced its first-ever virtual learning platform, with Kïdo's school in Houston's Rice Village serving as the U.S. launchpad. InnovationMap Cleantech incubator announces location in Houston, names newest partners The facility is expected to open this coming spring in Houston and will feature 40,000 square feet of prototyping lab, office, and community space that can house about 50 startups, totaling 200 to 300 employees. InnovationMap Houston ranked among world's top cities of the future for global business Houston has moved up on the world's ranking of cities for future global businesses. InnovationMap Houston ranks high on lists for startup ecosystems and economic growth potential A new ranking from Business Facilities magazine places Bayou City at No. 4 for economic growth potential among large metro areas and at No. 4 for the country's best startup ecosystems. InnovationMap Overheard: Experts discuss why Houston is the next hub for tech investing Key moments from a panel discussion on why Houston is the next hub for tech investing. InnovationMap Maps and Directions Meet the Team The Office of Technology Transfer and Innovation UH Division of Research Tenant Services Sign up to receive notifications about upcoming events and programs HP ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies