Skip to main content Toggle search Toggle navigation Hide navigation How We Can Help You… Partner & Invest Start & Grow a Venture Find Talent Connect & Network Resources For… Investors Industry Startups & Businesses Faculty Students Alumni View All Resources Why UMD Impact Stories On the Horizon News Hide search Search Terms Submit search University of Maryland Innovation Gateway Innovation Happens Here. Play full video Play full video Show video Hide video TENx UMD EnTERPreneur Talks The University of Maryland Alumni Association has launched a new initiative to capture the stories of EnTERPreneurs, their experiences launching their ventures, and their advice for current and future founders. Watch the inaugural batch of TENx UMD EnTERPreneur Talks at the UMAA YouTube Channel. Investors Industry Startups & Businesses Faculty Students Alumni View All Resources What are we Innovating at UMD? Areas of Impact Arts for All Arts for All Art + Technology + Social Justice The new Arts for All initiative partners the arts with the sciences, technology and other disciplines to develop new and reimagined curricular and experiential offerings that nurture different ways of thinking to spark dialogue, understanding, problem solving and action. It bolsters a campus-wide culture of creativity and innovation, making Maryland a national leader in leveraging the combined power of the arts, technology and social justice to collaboratively address grand challenges. Read more about how UMD is harnessing the power of the arts to spark civic dialogue, increase community engagement and activate social change. New Technology New Technology UMD-Led Team Creates Novel Material That Potentially Offers an Efficient, Eco-Friendly Advance in Cooling Technology In a development that may open the door to the next big step in refrigeration and air-conditioning technology, scientists at UMD have developed a 3D-printed cooling material that is highly efficient and eco-friendly and sidesteps durability issues previous researchers have faced. Their study was published recently in Science. An international team of collaborators led by Ichiro Takeuchi, a professor of materials science and engineering at Maryland, has developed a more durable elastocaloric cooling material using a blend of nickel and titanium, forged using a 3D printer, that is potentially more efficient than current technology. It’s also completely “green” and can be quickly scaled up for use in commercial devices. Read more about this innovation at "The Future of Cool" from Maryland Today. Agriculture & the Environment Agriculture & the Environment Alumnus Sets Out to Change America’s Eating Habits—and Maybe Save the World Self-professed meat lover Ethan Brown M.P.M. ’97 is right there with you on this gustatory odyssey, but there’s a twist. As a vegan and the founder and CEO of Beyond Meat, which has mushroomed from a small University of Maryland-backed startup to the nation’s leading plant-based meat company. Read more from "Growing Beyond Meat" in the latest TERP Magazine. Public Health Public Health Two-day Free Clinic Provided Free Dental, Wellness Services to More Than 1,000 Hosted by the UMD School of Public Health's Center for Health Equity, the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Washington and the Maryland State Dental Association Foundation, the event featured free dental services. More than 1,500 volunteers, including students from UMD's School of Dentistry, worked to serve 1,089 patients, many of whom had arrived overnight to secure their place in line. Read more about this annual event in Maryland Today. Social Impact Social Impact 10 Years Ago Terps Launched the Food Recovery Network and Grew It Into a Nationwide Hunger- and Waste-Fighting Force Up to 40% of all food in the U.S. goes to waste, according to the Food and Drug Administration, about one pound per person per day, and exceeding 81.4 billion pounds in 2017. A decade ago this fall, a small group of Terps took notice—and took action by founding the Food Recovery Network (FRN), which has spread to 172 campuses in 46 states and D.C., with almost 5 million pounds of food diverted from dumpsters and more than 4 million meals donated. As the nationwide nonprofit—arguably UMD’s greatest Do Good success—celebrates its 10th anniversary, the co-founders, supporters and partners who made it possible tell its story. Read the whole story in Fall 2021 TERP Magazine. Impact Stories Success of UMD's innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystem is measured by the transformational impact it activates. These are some of the stories highlighting how our faculty, students, and alumni are collectively enhancing the quality of life for people across the state and around the globe. Play full video See Their Story Pause video Our drones are very special, it’s a new category of drone called vertical takeoff and landing hybrid which essentially means that it can take off and land from anywhere... Right now we’re focused on search rescue and confined spaces, so looking for signs of human life working with police SWAT teams looking for specific things, and disaster situations as well. Pramod Raheja, CEO and Co-Founder View All Impact Stories 7 New Startups Formed UM Ventures, College Park Report What's Happening Terps Unite - Empowering Terp Businesses Access free UMD services, resources, and more RT @UMDscience: What does #QuantumPhysics have to do with everyday life? Check out this @JQInews 🧵 to find out. #WorldQuantumDay Via: @mtechumd Activate Transformational Impact. Innovate at UMD. Partner & Invest Start & Grow a Venture Find Talent Connect & Network Why UMD Impact Stories On the Horizon News Startup UMD View Startup UMD's Twitter View Startup UMD's Instagram Discovery District View Discovery District's Twitter View Discovery District's Instagram Contact Us Startup UMD Suite / 7878 Diamondback Drive, Suite B / College Park, MD 20742-1541 (301) 405-5810 / innovate@umd.edu © 2022 University of Maryland UMD.edu Web Accessibility Privacy Policy