Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Innovation Office of Innovation right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow In the News Meet the Team right arrow down arrow David J. Adams Ideas / Inventions right arrow down arrow Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Startups right arrow down arrow Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Makerspace right arrow down arrow Equipment Service Center Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub right arrow down arrow Strategic Partners Floor by Floor Agreements right arrow down arrow Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Contact Student Engagement Office of Innovation » Agreements Set Navigation title in component Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Agreements University of Cincinnati’s Office of Innovation works to ensure that UC technologies are licensed to companies able to develop those technologies into products and services. Licensees must demonstrate that they have sufficient resources, management talent, and plans to see the technology launched as a product. IP Case Managers use many sources and strategies to identify potential licensees and market inventions. Existing relationships, market research, and other complementary technologies can aid in this effort. Studies have shown that 70% of licensees were known to the inventors. Thus research and consulting relationships are often the most valuable source for licensees. An invention can be licensed to multiple licensees, either non-exclusively to several companies or exclusively to several companies, each only for a unique field-of-use (application) or geography. Available technologies can be viewed here, as well as an overview of license agreements and other types of agreements. For more information, please contact one of our case managers: Case Managers Physical Science Case Manager(s): Jonathan Tyler (tylerjo@ucmail.uc.edu) and Madison Bourbon (bourbomn@ucmail.uc.edu Life Science Case Manager(s): Jill Uhl (uhlje@ucmail.uc.edu) and Tais Doll (dollts@ucmail.uc.edu) Research Tool Case Manager(s): Melissa Baines (bainesmk@ucmail.uc.edu) 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top