Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Innovation Office of Innovation right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow In the News Meet the Team right arrow down arrow David J. Adams Ideas / Inventions right arrow down arrow Our Process Share Your Idea FAQs / Policies The Ohio IP Promise Startups right arrow down arrow Our Process Startup Stories Graduation Makerspace right arrow down arrow Equipment Service Center Member Portal 1819 Innovation Hub right arrow down arrow Strategic Partners Floor by Floor Agreements right arrow down arrow Available Technologies Industry Research Tiers MTAs / CDAs / DUAs Express License vs Option Express License Agreement Express Option Agreement Contact Student Engagement Office of Innovation » 1819 Innovation Hub » Floor by Floor Set Navigation title in component Strategic Partners Floor by Floor Floor by Floor Housed in a former Sears building in Cincinnati’s Avondale neighborhood, the 1819 Innovation Hub within Cincinnati’s innovation district is the University’s next major contribution to the development of a world-class innovation ecosystem in the city. The 1819 building is open and serving as the new “front door” for companies seeking to tap into the vast talent, research and educational expertise at UC. It provides space for interdisciplinary students and faculty to collaborate with industry partners and translate ideas to market. Students and faculty receive hands-on support from businesses, active in their areas of expertise, and businesses gain access to innovative solutions to the most pressing technological and workforce needs. Mixed-use development within Cincinnati’s innovation district, anchored by the 1819 Innovation Hub, will create a place to support the community, medical, research, and innovation needs of the city. A place to live, work, learn, and play. Floor Diagrams The Diagrams below show the current use of space in the 1819 Innovation Hub. If you have any questions or need help in anyway please contact us and we will be happy to assist you. FIRST FLOOR Built on a grade, the building’s first floor is accessed through the glass Atrium entrance where one has the option to ascend the grand suspended staircase or visit the Ground Floor Makerspace + Microfactory. An elevator is located on the south end of the building beyond the makerspace. Vending machines for food and beverage can also be found on the first floor by the elevator. Diagram of 1819 1st floor layout including calling out the areas for the fabricating Lab, Makerspace & microfactory, and the prototyping Lab SECOND FLOOR The second floor of the 1819 Innovation Hub is home to the Venture Lab accelerator, three active learning classrooms (ALCs), a multi-use room and common areas with a self-serve Starbucks kiosk. Diagram of 1819 2nd floor layout including calling out the areas for the Multi-Use room, Creative Collision Space, Venture Lab, Lounge, Classroom 220, Classrooom 210b, and Classroom 210a THIRD FLOOR The top two floors of the 1819 Innovation Hub provide space for corporate and social innovation, for small, medium, and large companies to engage with the University of Cincinnati. The third floor is home to Cincinnati Insurance Companies, the Kroger Technology Knowledge Action Center, Kingsgate Logistics, LiveWell Collaborative, Village Life Outreach Project, Simpson Center for Urban Futures, and the Cincinnati Bell Innovation Hub. Diagram of 1819 3rd floor layout including calling out the areas for corporate partnrer spaces including spaces for Cincinnati Bell, UC Simpson Center for Urban Futures, Village Life, Livewell, and Kroger. FOURTH FLOOR The top two floors of the 1819 Innovation Hub provide space for corporate and social innovation, for small, medium, and large companies to engage with the University of Cincinnati. The fourth floor is home to CincyTech, Worldpay, UC’s Office of Innovation, the UC Simulation Center (with P&G), and Edaptive Computing Inc. Diagram of 1819 4th floor layout including calling out the areas for the UC Office of Innovation, as well as some corporate partners like Cincytech, P&G Sim Center and Edaptive computing. 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 1819 Innovation Hub 2900 Reading Rd Cincinnati, OH 45206 513-556-5511 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top