Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close In Our Grit, Our Glory Menu Search Log In Home Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska In Our Grit, Our Glory Welcome We believe in the power of every person. We don’t rest on our strengths—we stretch them. Sweat them. Combine them. Growing flexible, nimble and strong minds. That’s how we do big things. Arts, Humanities & Education Business, Journalism & Law Engineering & Physics Food & Environment Health & Biomedical Arts, Humanities & Education Only in Nebraska: Carson Center Nebraska’s Carson Center for Emerging Media Arts earned HP/Educause designation, putting UNL in the company of MIT, Harvard, Yale, and Dartmouth. Visit the Carson Center site Story 1/4 - click arrows for more stories Only in Nebraska: Susan Sheridan Nebraska's Center for Research on Children, Youth, Families and Schools has made a positive impact on 100,000 students and 1,700 schools across the U.S. Watch this short video to learn more. Learn more about Susan’s work Story 2/4 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Leads Early Childhood Education The University of Nebraska transforms the lives of young children with nation-leading research and practice in early childhood education. Collaborate with us Story 3/4 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Gives Voice to American History Nebraska brings American history and literature to life, ranking 17th in National Endowment for the Humanities funding over the past decade. Explore Digital Humanities Story 4/4 - click arrows for more stories Back to navigation Business, Journalism & Law Nebraska Leads Space Law Through its space, cyber and telecommunications law program, the University of Nebraska leads the race to develop laws and manage conflict in space. See more on Space Law Story 1/4 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Leads Drone Journalism Drones are changing journalism and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln is in the forefront with a first of-its-kind academic program in drone journalism. Meet Matt Waite Story 2/4 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Leads Computer Science and Business Education Nebraska's Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management creates world-class innovators. Connect with the Raikes School Story 3/4 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Stretches Students' Strengths The Clifton Strengths Institute at Nebraska empowers students to discover what they naturally do best with the same tools used by most Fortune 100 companies. Explore Clifton Strengths Story 4/4 - click arrows for more stories Back to navigation Engineering & Physics Nebraska's Leading Laser Research Nebraska physicists created the brightest laser light in the history of the world, with the power to revolutionize X-rays for medical and national defense purposes. Work With Us at the Diocles lab Story 1/3 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Leads Defense Research The University of Nebraska partners with the Pentagon to combat some of the world's most serious threats. Learn more about our research Story 2/3 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Engineering Expanding With Kiewit A gift from Peter Kiewit Sons' Inc., one of America’s largest and most respected construction and engineering firms, is propelling forward Nebraska's new $85 million engineering building. Read about our plans Story 3/3 - click arrows for more stories Back to navigation Food & Environment Nebraska Leads Biosecurity Research The University of Nebraska's new collaborative biosecurity lab is leading research to safeguard America's food supply. Read about the lab's opening Story 1/4 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Leads Fire Drone Development University of Nebraska researchers build drones to aid in agriculture and wildfire fighting. Get the latest drone news Story 2/4 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Leads Water for Food Research The University of Nebraska-Lincoln is addressing the challenge of feeding massive population growth while using less water for food production and adapting to the changing climate. See our impact in water and food Story 3/4 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Is Leading the Largest Supercell Storm Study of It’s Kind The Nebraska-led TORUS project is using drones, mobile radar systems and P3 hurricane hunter aircraft to study severe weather, improve forecasting and save lives. Follow our storm-tracking work Story 4/4 - click arrows for more stories Back to navigation Health & Biomedical Nebraska Leads Food for Health Research The University of Nebraska-Lincoln is discovering new ways food can improve health. Visit the Food for Health site Story 1/3 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska Is Improving Surgical Care Nebraska is engineering the future of surgical care with broken bone-mending pins that dissolve and robots that perform surgery inside the body. Learn more about our research Story 2/3 - click arrows for more stories Nebraska's Critical Virology Research Nebraska scientists were the first to identify a vaccine that could defend against Zika without producing antibodies. Explore Nebraska Virology Story 3/3 - click arrows for more stories Back to navigation Contact Us Address1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 Phone number402-472-7211 Related Links University Communications Office of the Chancellor Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.