More information about COVID-19 and return to campus available on the Campus Return website.. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Inside UCR Search Home Stories Awards & Honors Announcements ScotMemos Research Blog Events Breadcrumb Stories May 29th, 2022 Spring quarter COVID-19 reminders Follow US: Spring quarter COVID-19 reminders Free antigen tests, air purifier rentals, and more May 29, 2022 Author: University Communications May 29, 2022 Face Covering Requirements From May 30 through June 13, face coverings will be required in indoor spaces on the UC Riverside campus and in university owned or operated venues. For more information see the announcement issued on May 27. Notifications About Potential Workplace Exposures on Campus Visit the UCR COVID-19 dashboard for the latest information about locations on campus where COVID-19 positive individuals were present in the past 14 days. This dashboard is updated daily. Free Masks Employees can get free surgical and N95 masks through Environmental Health & Safety. The Well is providing free masks for students. Symptom Monitoring and Screening Check Please self-monitor for COVID-19 symptoms daily prior to coming to campus. If you have symptoms do not come to campus and complete the COVID Screening Check. You should also complete the COVID Screening Check if you have tested positive for COVID-19, been exposed to someone who has tested positive, or are completing a required COVID-19 weekly test. Antigen Tests UCR is offering free antigen tests (while supplies last) for students and employees who are working on campus. To request antigen tests, fill out an online request form. The tests can be picked up at the COVID-19 testing site at Pentland Hills Bear Cave. In addition, the U.S. government offers free COVID-19 rapid antigen test for every home in the United States. Tests can be requested by visiting www.covidtests.gov. Also, individuals with private health insurance or who are covered by a group health plan are eligible to have up to eight at-home COVID-19 tests covered by their insurance provider per month. On-campus Testing Sites COVID-19 testing at the Pentland Hills Bear Cave, Student Success Center, and mobile sites remain open for students, employees, and visitors. For testing site hours of operation visit the Campus Return website. Air Purifier Rentals Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) is lending portable High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) purifiers at no charge to UCR workplaces (e.g., classrooms, offices). Please complete a request form if your workplace may benefit from a portable HEPA purifier. Examples include: small-size and high-occupancy classrooms, tight office spaces with numerous visitors, or enclosed workplaces (e.g., no operable windows). More Information For updates and the latest information for the UCR community about COVID-19 visit the Campus Return website. Share this Story Tags COVID-19 Related Stories COVID-19 digest for the week of April 11 COVID-19 digest for the week of March 28 COVID-19 digest for the week of March 14 UC President Michael Drake joins UC Riverside faculty Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-0000 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Find Us Follow Us: Related Links UCR News Research Blog Inside UCR Archive Human Resources UC Path Portal Staff Assembly UC Newsroom Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Search × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel