College of Agriculture & Life Sciences Department of Horticulture Course contact: Ken Mudge Associate Professor of Horticulture kwm2@cornell.edu Authorship and Acknowledgments Educational Program Award Winner American Distance Education Consortium Other recognition: Chronicle of Higher Education Higher Education Partners for Development in Honduras News releases about non-credit course Registration for non-credit course beginning March 1, 2005 Listen to an interview with grafting instructor Ken Mudge broadcast Jan. 3 on WFPL radio's HomeGrown show. (Fast forward to 21:20) The Natural and Human History of Plant Cloning Explore the world of plant propagation with Ken Mudge. This Cornell CyberTower 'study room' features video lectures on layering, cuttings, grafting, micropropagation and more. (Free, but registration required.) Course Content Homepage "The ways or fashions of grafting are legion. There are as many ways as there are ways of whittling. The operator may fashion the union of the stock and the cion to suit himself, if only he apply cambium to cambium, make a close joint, and properly protect the work." -- Liberty Hyde Bailey, Standard Cyclopedia of Horticulture, 1928 Index to Lectures, Labs and Other Resources: (Click arrow for drop-down box or use menu below.) Index of Grafting and Budding Introduction Learning Objectives Concepts and Definitions Natural and Human History of Grafting and Budding Reasons for Grafting and Budding Rootstocks Requirements for Successful Grafting and Budding Compatibility Anatomy and Physiology of Grafting Union Formation Laboratory Introduction ----- Lab 1: Top Wedge Grafting ----- Lab 2: T-budding ----- Lab 3: Chip Budding Alphabetical listing of Grafting & Budding Methods Propagation Systems for Specific Crops Glossary Literature Cited Introduction Learning Objectives Concepts and Definitions Requirements for Successful Grafting and Budding Natural and Human History of Grafting and Budding Reasons for Grafting and Budding Rootstocks Compatibility Anatomy and Physiology of Grafting Union Formation Introduction to Lab Exercises Laboratory Exercise 1: Top Wedge Grafting of Hibiscus Laboratory Exercise 2: T-Budding of Hibiscus Laboratory Exercise 3: Chip Budding of Hibiscus Alphabetical listing of Grafting & Budding Techniques Specific crops propagation systems involving grafting or budding: Apple Top Wedge Grafting of Avocado T-budding of Citrus Field-budding of Roses Literature Cited Glossary Other Web and Print Grafting Resources © Copyright, Department of Horticulture, Cornell University.