Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Frontiers of Instrumentation at Yale Home Facilities Training News Events Yale Day of Instrumentation Photos and Videos Subscribe Welcome Transforming the future of discovery The development of new tools and measurement techniques is an essential component of the scientific process, allowing researchers to open entirely new avenues for investigation. Yale University supports a wide variety of state-of-the art core instrumentation and engineering facilities to support innovative research. In 2018, Yale released the report of the University Science Strategy Committee, identifying the most promising opportunities for investment across scientific disciplines. Instrumentation is one of four recommended areas for cross-cutting investment by Yale. The report of the committee can be read here: USSC Report. This website is a work in progress and is intended to serve as a repository of information about instrumentation efforts at Yale. For more information about this website, please contact Wright Lab Program Manager Victoria Misenti or email instrumentation@yale.edu. News Ideation Workshop on an Advanced Instrumentation Development Center in the Physical Sciences and Engineering Building May 25, 2020 An Ideation Workshop on an Advanced Instrumentation Development Center (AIDC) in the Physical Sciences and Engineering Building (PSEB) was held on Zoom on May 22, 2020. ... 2020 Yale Day of Instrumentation gathers people and input to propel instrumentation initiative at Yale January 27, 2020 The second annual Yale Day of Instrumentation was held on Friday, January 24, 2020 at the new Yale Science Building. 142 people from across the University’s Faculty of Arts... First Yale Instrumentation Lunch held at Wright Lab on Quantum Sensors: Opportunities and Applications February 20, 2019 Wright Laboratory (Wright Lab) and the Yale Quantum Institute (YQI) hosted the first Yale Instrumentation Lunch on Tuesday, February 19, on the topic “Quantum Sensors:... More news... Discover Instrumentation Instrumentation at Yale is supported by: Faculty of Arts and Sciences School of Engineering and Applied Science Yale West Campus Yale School of Medicine More details and links Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved This site is administered by Wright Laboratory. Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr