Skip to main content Tulane Home Give to The Center Report a Concern Information For... Search Information for... New Students Multicultural Affairs Inclusive & Affirming Spaces Cultural Programs & Events Latine Heritage Month & Beyond Indigenous Peoples Day & Native American Heritage Month Cultural Leadership The Ambassadors Program Cultural Engagement Share updates with the O! Get Connected Join an Organization Kaleidoscope RLC The 1963 Collective RLC Faculty & Staff Gender & Sexual Diversity Spiritual Life CIL Room Reservations About Us Know Your Rights Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home New Students Multicultural Affairs Inclusive & Affirming Spaces Cultural Programs & Events Cultural Leadership Cultural Engagement Get Connected Join an Organization Kaleidoscope RLC The 1963 Collective RLC Faculty & Staff Gender & Sexual Diversity Finding Your Community On-Campus The Q Spot QT @ TU Resources for Navigating Campus Get Involved Faculty & Staff Request a Training Spiritual Life Campus Centers Student Organizations CIL Room Reservations About Us Our Staff Our History Contact Us Know Your Rights Give to The Center Report a Concern Information For... Home / Multicultural Affairs Multicultural Affairs The Office of Multicultural Affairs, located within the Carolyn Barber Pierre Center for Intercultural Life, works to employ critical race theory, student development theories and a social justice framework. We use a trauma-informed lens infused with radical love to counter the effects of oppression and empower students to thrive. In order to achieve our vision we value trust, care, quality, equity and authenticity. OMA models being an environment where students, faculty, staff and alumni can collaborate to co-create and sustain an engaged and equitable learning community. Community Engagement We believe that building and sustaining community is a central part of the college experience for all students. For students who have been historically marginalized, it was finding community that helped them persist, graduate and become part of an active community of engaged alumni. Decolonized Leadership Development We recognize the need to provide a variety of pathways for students to develop their own holistic leadership style informed by their own lived experiences, cultural connections, and heritage. We also believe that the labor of leadership should not rest on the efforts of a few students, but a larger collective of horizontal leaders with common goals. Our aspiration for all students to develop as strong leaders is rooted in building coalitions, resisting internalized oppression, and working collectively for sustainable change in our society. Advocacy Since our founding in 1987, the office has been a space for students seeking advocacy and support when navigating challenges during their time at Tulane. We continue this legacy by offering support to students in a variety. Advocacy is central to our mission and we work with students individually and collectively to address issues of bias, discrimination, and marginalization at all levels of the university. We also build and maintain partnerships with various campus departments to advocate with all students Cultural Identity Development Research has shown that students who know and understand their own identities are more likely to succeed academically. Our worldviews are shaped by our lived experiences and cultural connections. Many students have been socialized by their own families and communities and an aspect of that socialization is cultural. Our office seeks to affirm the cultural identity development of students to help them stay grounded and empower them to thrive holistically. Social Justice Education The entire campus community must work to build and sustain an environment that was designed for the success of all students. This work begins with understanding social justice, racial justice, and liberation. That includes intentional engagement in the unlearning required to connect authentically with others and build meaningful relationships. This is the basis for our work to provide social justice education on campus. We offer spaces to learn common language and terminology, engage in intergroup dialogue, and explore resources that include the work of subject matter experts who create theory and best practices through lived experience as well as research. Get Connected Peer Mentors Program Ambassadors Program Community Engagement Advocates OMA Graduate Assistantship Kaleidoscope Residential Learning Community Intercultural Leadership Retreat Cultural Engagement & Celebration Cultural Programs & Events My Sister's Keeper Intercultural Trips Fall Harvest Festival Intercultural Leadership Retreat Umoja Graduation Ceremony On Being Empowered On Being Well Faculty Fridays REST & Healing First Year Students Information for Parents Graduate & Professional Students Information for Alumni COVID-19 Reporting Form Stop Racism and Other Forms of Oppression Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Carolyn Barber Pierre Center for Intercultural Life Richardson Building #5 Suite 101 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University