University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Site Search Search Illinois International Menu Units Global Education and Training Global Relations Illinois Abroad and Global Exchange Intensive English Institute International Safety and Security International Student and Scholar Services Shanghai Office Awards & Funding International Achievement Awards Study Abroad (IIP) Scholarships Graduate Awards & Scholarships International Student Support International Conference Travel Grant Internationally-Themed Event Grant Giving Administrative Funds Grant & Award Funds International Student Support Funds Study Abroad Scholarship Funds Global Impact By the Numbers Interactive Map of Global Engagement International Offices & Academics International Week About Units Committees Leadership Staff Directory Annual Reports Global Impact Overview By the Numbers Interactive Map of Global Engagement International Offices & Academics International Week International Offices & Academics The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign's commitment to providing a global classroom is reflected in the number of centers and programs that serve as resources for students, faculty, staff, and the local community to engage with new cultures, languages, and histories. Illinois International Units Global Education and Training Global Relations Illinois Abroad and Global Exchange Intensive English Institute International Safety and Security International Student and Scholar Services Shanghai Office Academic Units & Departments ACES Office of International Programs Arms Control & Domestic and International Security, Program in Global Crossroads Community Global Studies (College of LAS) International Education and Research in Accounting, Center for Japan House Literatures, Cultures and Linguistics, School of LAS International Programs Mortenson Center for International Library Programs Translation Studies, Center for Women and Gender in Global Perspectives Program World Music, Center for Area Study Centers & Title VI National Resource Centers African Studies, Center for Center for Global Studies East Asian and Pacific Studies, Center for European Union Center Illinois Global Institute Latin American and Caribbean Studies, Center for Lemann Center for Brazilian Studies Russian, East European, and Eurasian Center South Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, Center for Language Units East Asian Languages and Cultures French and Italian Germanic Languages and Literatures Less Commonly Taught Languages Program Linguistics Modern Greek Studies Program Slavic Languages and Literature Spanish and Portuguese Libraries International and Area Studies Library Education Abroad Offices ACES Education Abroad Office Business International Programs College of Education International Programs Illinois Abroad & Global Exchange International Programs in Engineering (IPENG) LAS International Programs Law Study Abroad Media Study Abroad International Academic Programs & Courses In addition to the numerous programs spread throughout its more than 150 fields of study and its 16 colleges and instructional units, the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign also offers a wide range of academic programs and degrees focused on international and global issues. Below are the internationally-oriented academic programs offered by the university. Although this list aims to be comprehensive, we encourage you to explore the Course Catalog for a complete listing of each department’s offerings. Undergraduate College of Agricultural, Consumer and Environmental Sciences International Development Economic Minor International Minor International Programs, Office of Policy, International Trade, and Development Concentration Gies College of Business Management–International Business College of Education International Programs, Office of College of Engineering International Minor College of Liberal Arts and Sciences African-American Studies Major / Minor African Studies Minor American Indian Studies Minor Anthropology Major with Sociocultural and Linguistic Concentration Arabic Studies Minor Asian American Studies Minor Classics with a Greek or Latin Concentration Comparative and World Literature Major / Minor East Asian Languages and Cultures Major / Minor French Major / Minor Germanic Languages and Literatures Major Global Studies Minor Greek Minor Hindi Studies Minor Islamic World Minor, Study of the Italian Major Major / Minor Jewish Culture and Society Minor Latin Minor Latin American Studies Minor Latina/Latino Studies Major / Minor Portuguese Major / Minor Russian and East European Studies Major / Minor Russian Language and Literature Minor Scandinavian Studies Minor Slavic Studies Major Slavic Language, Literature, and Culture Minor Spanish Major / Minor Sub-Saharan African Languages Minor Turkish Studies Minor Graduate Gies College of Business Business Administration in International Management M.S. College of Education Educational Policy Studies, M.Ed. in Global Studies Educational Policy Studies, Ph.D. Concentration in Global Studies International Education Administration and Leadership Global Studies in Education College of Fine and Applied Arts Master of Urban Planning–Transnational Planning Stream College of Liberal Arts and Sciences African Studies M.A. African Studies Graduate Minor Balkan Studies Graduate Minor European Union Studies M.A. / Graduate Minor East Asian Languages and Cultures M.A. / Ph.D. French M.A. / Ph.D. Gender Relations in International Development Graduate Minor German M.A. / Ph.D. Global Studies Graduate Minor Italian Major M.A. / Ph.D. Latin American Studies M.A. / Graduate Minor Portuguese M.A. / Ph.D. Program in Comparative and World Literature Russian, East European and Eurasian Studies M.A. / Graduate Minor Second Language Acquisition and Teacher Education (SLATE) Ph.D. Slavic Languages and Literatures M.A. / Ph.D. South Asian and Middle Eastern Studies M.A. Spanish M.A. / Ph.D. Translation and Interpreting M.A. Other Certificate Programs ACDIS Undergraduate Certificate in Global Security Certificate in Translation Studies Intensive English Institute LAS Global Studies: Certificate in International Development LAS Global Studies: Certificate in International Development Mortenson Center for International Library Programs Second Language Acquisition and Teacher Education Language Programs Arabic French and Italian German Greek Hindi Japanese Korean Latin Less Commonly Taught Languages Perisan Slavic Languages and Literatures Spanish and Portuguese Swahili Turkish Please submit a Web Edit form with additions or corrections. Illinois International 507 E. Green St., Suite 426 Champaign, IL 61820 USA Phone: 217-333-6104 | Fax: 217-265-0810 international@illinois.edu © 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees About Cookies Quick Links My.International Calendar Staff Directory Employment The Next 150 Submit a Web Edit Web Privacy Notice Site Map Units Global Education and Training Global Relations Illinois Abroad and Global Exchange Intensive English Institute International Safety and Security International Student and Scholar Services Shanghai Office