Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Interdisciplinary Stanford Interdisciplinary Stanford's culture of collaboration drives innovative discoveries in areas vital to our world, our health and our intellectual life. Navigation menu Main menu Home Labs, Centers, and Institutes Stories Videos For Students For Faculty About 18 interdisciplinary institutes cross school boundaries and foster collaboration. more Building a brain: What does it take to make machines as smart as we are? Computers will one day match our own mental agility, but getting to that point will require neuroscientists and engineers to reverse engineer our least understood organ – the brain. Institutes Stanford Bio-X, Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Read More Carla Shatz, Director of Stanford Bio-X From learning languages to brain repair, "There's no way we could make progress without collaboration." Play Students whose research bridges disciplines are prepared for a changing world. more Promising approaches to global freshwater challenges As the world's population grows, so does the demand for – and threat to – the planet's freshwater supply. Solutions will come from diverse research teams tackling those pressing challenges. Institutes Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies at Stanford (FSI), Precourt Institute for Energy, Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Read More Daniel McFarland, Professor of Education What drives collaboration? Location, funding and coffee. Play Buildings that increase chance encounters draw faculty together around common problems: more Collaborations drive discovery Collaborations between Stanford and nearby SLAC National Accelerator laboratory probe everything from the most intricate molecular details of artwork or cellular structures to the origins of the universe and materials for better batteries. Institutes ChEM-H, Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology (KIPAC), Precourt Institute for Energy, PULSE Institute for Ultrafast Energy Science, Stanford Institute for Materials and Energy Sciences (SIMES) Read More Grant Miller, Associate Professor of Medicine Global health initiatives combine medicine, policy, economics, government ministries and NGOs. "It isn't easy, but the payoff is huge." Play A culture of collaboration sparks innovative discoveries. more Interdisciplinary research takes students beyond the classroom Research that bridges disciplines helps students find their future path, whether it's diving deeper into academics or taking their passion and applying it to other careers. Institutes Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies at Stanford (FSI), Stanford Bio-X, Stanford Humanities Center (SHC), Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Read More Seven adjacent schools bring diverse faculty together. more Home Experience more stories that showcase interdiscplinary innovation at Stanford. Read stories at Stanford News Watch videos on our youtube channel Header image of a student experiencing acidification of a virtual reality coral reef. The work is part of a program to explore empathy following virtual experiences. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.