Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison UW Crest International Resources Welcome International Students, Faculty, Staff, and Visitors! This website serves as a central access point to the many resources available to the international community at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, as well as to campus units that may be hosting those from abroad. It also provides information on the different international offices on campus that are here to assist you and answer any questions you may have. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ON FALL 2021 Be sure to check campus websites for information on frequently asked questions such as vaccinations, housing, and other key issues for international students. The FAQs provided at the previous links offer extensive information. Some of the most commonly asked questions are below. This is an accordion element with a series of buttons that open and close related content panels. Expand allCollapse all I was vaccinated off-campus. How do I let UHS know? If you are being vaccinated off campus, including by a UW Health clinic or by a UW Health provider, wait until you have received either the single dose of a one-dose vaccine or both shots of a two-dose vaccine. Then inform University health Services through two options. I'm an international student that will be coming to UW-Madison. Should I get vaccinated here or wait until I'm on campus? The recommendation is to get whatever COVID-19 vaccine is available to you wherever you are. UHS will recognize vaccines maintained on the World Health Organization’s (WHO) emergency use listing. If that vaccine is not on the WHO list by the time you arrive in the U.S., you will be able to get an FDA-approved vaccine. Similarly, if there are recommendations for boosters or additional prevention measures with your initial vaccine, we will try to facilitate with FDA-approved vaccines. Testing/vaccination guide for international students living in residence halls during the fall 2021 semester Testing/vaccination guide for international students living off campus during the fall 2021 semester Last updated 2:44 PM, July 16, 2021 I am fully vaccinated and will be living off campus. What should I do once I arrive in Madison after arriving from a location outside of the United States? Testing/vaccination guide for international students living off campus during the fall 2021 semester After you arrive in the United States, you should self-monitor for COVID-19 symptoms. It is recommended you get tested three to five days after travel. You may be tested at no cost at a UHS testing location. Family members who are not UW employees/students can get tested at locations offered by Public Health Madison & Dane County or Urgent Care and other medical facilities. It is advised to go to their websites or call in advance for testing locations and other information. If you have children, check with your child’s pediatrician about testing recommendations. Last updated 2:44 PM, July 16, 2021 I am not fully vaccinated and will be living off campus. What should I do once I arrive in Madison from a location outside of the United States? Testing/vaccination guide for international students living off campus during the fall 2021 semester When you arrive in the U.S., it is recommended you self-quarantine for 7 days and be tested three to five days after travel. UW–Madison employees and students are eligible to be tested at a UHS testing location. Family members who are not UW employees/students can be tested at locations offered by Public Health Madison & Dane County or Urgent Care and other medical facilities. It is advised to check websites or call in advance for testing locations and other information. If you have children, check with your child’s pediatrician about testing recommendations. After quarantining for 7 days, testing negative for COVID-19 and if you are not experiencing any symptoms, you are eligible to be vaccinated for COVID-19. Students, employees and family members can get vaccinated thru UHS at no cost. UHS has Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson vaccines available. If you choose to be vaccinated at an off campus provider – please be sure and upload your vaccination information to UHS. Last updated 2:44 PM, July 16, 2021 I was vaccinated outside of the U.S. Does this mean I am vaccinated after 14 days? An individual is considered fully vaccinated 14 days after the second dose of a two-dose vaccine or the first dose of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. The 14 days is the standard used by the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for vaccines with an Emergency Use Authorization or Emergency Use Listing. This currently includes vaccines manufactured by Oxford–AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Sinopharm-BBIBP, Moderna, Sinovac, and Johnson & Johnson. Testing/vaccination guide for international students living in residence halls during the fall 2021 semester Testing/vaccination guide for international students living off campus during the fall 2021 semester Last updated 2:44 PM, July 16, 2021 I am an international student traveling to Madison from outside of the United States -- do I need to test for COVID-19 before leaving? Per the CDC International Travel guidelines, all passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens and fully vaccinated people, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result no more than three days before travel or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 in the past three months before they board a flight bound for the United States. After your test, you should reduce interactions with others until you travel to reduce risk of transmission after your test but prior to travel. Testing/vaccination guide for international students living in residence halls during the fall 2021 semester Testing/vaccination guide for international students living off campus during the fall 2021 semester If you have children under the age of 5, you should contact your pediatrician to see if they should also be tested for COVID-19. Last updated 2:43 PM, July 16, 2021 Resources for International Students Undergraduate Admissions More Graduate Admissions More International Student Summer Institute More F-1 & J-1 Visa Comparison More Orientation More Institute for Regional & International Studies More Visiting International Student Program More Campus Units Immigration Toolkits More Immigration Status Chart More Hiring International Students More International Agreements More International Faculty & Staff International Employees More International Visiting Scholars More Become Affiliated Area Studies Faculty More Everyone COVID-19 (coronavirus) More International Travel (Safety & Security) More International Projects Office More International Payroll & Taxes More Language Resources Chinese More English More Hmong More Nepali More Spanish More Tibetan More Campus International Units INTERNATIONAL DIVISION Cultivates international scholarship and engagement, promotes global awareness, supports international teaching and research, and prepares students for a diverse and interconnected world. Phone: (608) 262-2851 Email: deansoffice@international.wisc.edu INTERNATIONAL STUDENT SERVICES Offers a wide variety of services and programs to international students at UW–Madison. Serves non-immigrant students on F and J visas. Provides advice on maintenance of status, academic and personal adjustment, employment authorization, and referrals to appropriate services on or off campus. Phone: (608) 262-2044 Email: iss@studentlife.wisc.edu INTERNATIONAL FACULTY AND STAFF SERVICES Provides comprehensive assistance to the university on all aspects of non-student immigration. Acts as the liaison between the university and all government agencies involved in employment-based immigration matters. Phone: (608) 265-2257 Email: ischolars@ohr.wisc.edu Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Quick Links Accessibility Diversity Governance Policies Safety Title IX Website feedback, questions or accessibility issues: kathy.contezac@wisc.edu. Learn more about accessibility at UW–Madison. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.