Our physical office has reopened Monday - Friday, 8:00am - 12:00pm and 1:00pm - 5:00pm. Our staff will be rotating in-person shifts and can be contacted through email and Zoom. Most advising appointments will continue via Zoom. Visit the Campus Return website for updates. × Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home Search Quick Links Apply to Education Abroad Programs Contact Us Forms for International Students UC Riverside International Affairs The World at UCR Search About International Affairs Welcome Message What We Do Contact Our Staff International Partnership Our Partners Special Events and Programs International Education Week APRU Virtual Student Exchange Worldfest Education Abroad Fair Education Abroad Education Abroad Home Program Overview Financial Information Finances Scholarships What You Need to Know Get Ready While Abroad When You're Back For Family & Friends For UC Staff & Faculty FAQs Stories from Abroad Highlander Abroad Fund Overview Advisory Committee Budget Plans & Report Bylaws International Students International Students Home Prospective Students New Students Current Students F & J Student Immigration Info Campus & Community Resources Travel Employment & Taxes Programs & Activities Forms International Scholars International Scholars Home J-1 Scholars Prospective Scholars Pre-Departure Post-Arrival H-1B Visa & Green Card Other Visa Types Programs & Events Sponsoring Departments News Giving UCR Home Quick Links Apply to Education Abroad Programs Contact Us Forms for International Students The World at UCR As UC Riverside's international ambassadors, we foster global engagement. We connect students and faculty at UCR with opportunities to work and learn abroad. We also work with internal and external partners to help international students, research scholars, and staff come to UC Riverside. International Affairs serves as a central hub for the University’s international activity. Our goal is to amplify UCR’s global connections, enhance our global impact, and provide a world-class education that equips our students with the tools to navigate a changing global landscape. International Affairs Who we are and how we can work together. International Affairs Report 2019-2020 What We Do Contact Us Give Now Education Abroad Are you a student in the U.S. thinking about going abroad? Start here! Education Abroad Home Explore Ways to Go Abroad Create a MyUCR Abroad Account Find a Scholarship International Students Welcoming students to UCR from around the world Student Home Page Getting Your Visa Get Started at UCR Campus and Community Resources International Scholars Resources to support international faculty and researchers at UCR Scholar Home Page Prospective Scholars H-1B Visa Sponsoring Departments Education Abroad sets students up for success In today's global economy, education abroad has become one of the most integral, enriching, and transformative components in a student’s college career. Start Planning to Learn Abroad 80.4 Million dollars - the economic impact of international students at UCR (2020-2021) 1,987 International students and scholars at UCR (2020) 145 Students participated in Education Abroad (Fall 2019 - Summer 2020) 49 New MOUs/international agreements signed since 2015 Other International Resources at UCR International Education Programs UCR Extension offers a wide variety of postgraduate certificates and diplomas, including certificates from their International Education Programs. The curriculum is continually evaluated and updated to ensure the best U.S. learning experience... UCR Extension International Agreements and MOUs UCR partners with universities throughout the world to maintain the highest standards of teaching and research, to keep up with academic trends. International agreements represent an outstanding opportunity for UCR faculty, staff, and students to grow and Partner Database International Undergraduate Admissions UC Riverside is a highly ranked research institution, respected around the world for our innovative culture. Each year, international students from more than 65 countries attend UC Riverside, one of 10 schools within the University of California system. Undergraduate Applications International Graduate Admissions International students who want to attend UC Riverside as a graduate student must submit their application through the UCR Graduate Division website. This website lists all application requirements for international students. Graduate Applications Give to International Affairs Your gift helps us increase educational access, expand opportunities, and enhance support available to UCR’s growing international community Give Upcoming Events More Events University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 International Affairs 900 University Ave. Skye Hall, Room 321 Riverside, CA 92521 Main Office: (951) 827-4113 internationalaffairs@ucr.edu International Students internationalstudents@ucr.edu International Scholars internationalscholars@ucr.edu Education Abroad educationabroad@ucr.edu Related Links Sign Up For Our Newsletter Give Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel