University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Site Search Search Illinois International Menu Units Global Education and Training Global Relations Illinois Abroad and Global Exchange Intensive English Institute International Safety and Security International Student and Scholar Services Shanghai Office Awards & Funding International Achievement Awards Study Abroad (IIP) Scholarships Graduate Awards & Scholarships International Student Support International Conference Travel Grant Internationally-Themed Event Grant Giving Administrative Funds Grant & Award Funds International Student Support Funds Study Abroad Scholarship Funds Global Impact By the Numbers Interactive Map of Global Engagement International Offices & Academics International Week About Units Committees Leadership Staff Directory Annual Reports Global Impact Overview By the Numbers Interactive Map of Global Engagement International Offices & Academics International Week Global Impact The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign is committed to offering a global classroom. Our diverse student body, international research, study abroad, hundreds of partnerships, and robust student and faculty exchanges position us as a leader in the field of international education. By the Numbers The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign ranks high among our international peers and makes a local impact with a global focus. Learn more about our international rankings and global impact. Interactive Map of Global Engagement The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign maintains 400+ institutional agreements, offers 300 education abroad programs, and welcomes the nation's second-largest international student population among public universities. See where we connect with the world. View the Interactive Map of Global Engagement. International Offices & Academic Programs In addition to Illinois International, there are a number of offices across campus that seek to facilitate the Illinois global classroom. Learn more about the International Offices and Academic Programs. International Week Through numerous educational, cultural, and recreational events co-hosted by student groups, centers, colleges, units, and local partners, International Week raises awareness about the breadth of international education, activities, and resources available to our community. Learn more about International Week. Illinois International 507 E. Green St., Suite 426 Champaign, IL 61820 USA Phone: 217-333-6104 | Fax: 217-265-0810 international@illinois.edu © 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees About Cookies Quick Links My.International Calendar Staff Directory Employment The Next 150 Submit a Web Edit Web Privacy Notice Site Map Units Global Education and Training Global Relations Illinois Abroad and Global Exchange Intensive English Institute International Safety and Security International Student and Scholar Services Shanghai Office