Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS International Affairs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Welcome from the Associate Vice Provost Messages Our Work Contact Us KUIA Organization Chart News & Events Select to follow link News Select to follow link 2020-2021 Annual Report 2019-2020 Annual Report Global Connections Newsletter International Events Select to follow link Upcoming Events International Education Week International Jayhawk Festival International Student Graduation Celebration Select to follow link 2021 Virtual International Student Graduation Celebration 2022 International Student Graduation Celebration People Select to follow link Administration and Staff Learn at KU Travel Abroad Select to follow link Fulbright Opportunities Select to follow link Fulbright U.S. Student Program Incoming Fulbright Student and Scholars Fulbright Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad Fulbright U.S. Student Program Funding for International Travel Select to follow link International Affairs Travel Funds International Travel Fund for Humanities Research South, Southeast and East Asia Fund KU-UCR Collaborative Research Fund KU-UCR Exchange Support Fund International Travel Grants for Graduate Students International Travel Resources Select to follow link International Travel Resources for Faculty and Staff International Travel Resources for Students Travel to High-Risk Locations Travel Request Study Abroad KU Passport Acceptance Center Global Reach Select to follow link ACE Internationalization Lab International Agreement Development Select to follow link KU Agreement Process International Agreements Directory KU Area Studies Centers Language Programs Global Awareness Program Woodyard International Educator Award Community Connections Select to follow link Phi Beta Delta Local Cultural and Ethnic Organizations Thanksgiving Homestay Program Resources for International Students, Scholars and Visitors Select to follow link Visiting and Living in Lawrence Immigration Select to follow link International Employees and Scholars Current International Students Prospective Students International Support Services Info for Prospective International Students Current International Students English Language Learners Study Abroad Students International Employees and Scholars International Partners myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo International Affairs Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Mobilizing Curiosity. Engaging the World. KU International Affairs empowers Jayhawks from all 50 states and over 105 nations to achieve their full potential by mobilizing discovery, research, and service across geopolitical borders. KUIA cultivates inclusion and collaboration across campus and the region through our engagement of the global community. Our Work International Affairs Around the World 1,675 international students International Support Services 100+ countries represented on campus ISS Programs 1,392 students who study abroad Study Abroad 200+ partnerships supporting international research and collaboration Partnership Development Opening Doors "Studying abroad opened doors and opportunities for me that were always there that I never would have seen." - Mika Schrader, 2020 graduate with degrees in history and religious studies. Study Abroad International Connections "It is important being able to understand other cultures and perspectives, and that goes for more than just between countries, it is true for inside the U.S." - Emilia Paz Ojeda, international student and 2020 graduate in computer science Apply to KU KU International News 31 KU Students Receive Gilman Scholarships Thirty-one University of Kansas undergraduate students have recently received the prestigious Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship to study or intern abroad in countries around the world. KUIA names Eron Memaj as International Support Services Director KU International Affairs has announced that Eron Memaj will be the new director of International Support Services at the University of Kansas. Memaj will be coming from Kent State University, where he served as director of the Office of International Student Affairs for seven years. Stacey Vanderhurst Receives Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to Nigeria Stacey Vanderhurst, University of Kansas assistant professor of women, gender & sexuality studies, has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to study how Nigerian women are fighting harassment in public spaces. Three KU Students Earn Fulbright Awards Three University of Kansas students received prestigious Fulbright U.S. Student Awards to study, conduct research and teach English abroad for the 2022-2023 academic year. Four additional KU students were named as alternate Fulbright recipients. View all news International Events at KU See all events 2020-2021 Annual Report Read about faculty, staff and student international successes Annual Report Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c intlaffairs@ku.edu 785-864-6161 facebook twitter Applied English Center International Short Programs International Support Services Study Abroad & Global Engagement Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.