Skip to main content Florida State University | College of Fine Arts PROGRAMS Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design School of Dance School of Theatre Museum of Fine Arts Facility for Arts Research FSU/Asolo Conservatory for Actor Training Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography EVENTS NEWS TICKETS APPLY GIVE This is your Donation message. Log In Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Toggle navigation First Pro About About the Department About the College A Welcome From the Chair Facilities By-Laws Programs Undergraduate Program Graduate Program London Study Abroad Program How To Apply Showcase Faculty Biographies Guest Speaker Series Student Work Yearly Awards People Faculty / Staff Students Visiting Designers & Scholars Department of Interior Architecture & Design Advisory Council Professors Emeriti News / Events Alumni News News Events Awards & Achievements Event News For the Press Giving How to Give Department Donors Development Staff Donor Spotlight Advisory Council Resources Computer Requirements Interior Design Textbook List Studio D Connect Contact Newsletters Site Map About About the Department About the College A Welcome From the Chair Facilities By-Laws Programs Undergraduate Program Graduate Program London Study Abroad Program How To Apply Showcase Faculty Biographies Guest Speaker Series Student Work Yearly Awards People Faculty / Staff Students Visiting Designers & Scholars Department of Interior Architecture & Design Advisory Council Professors Emeriti News / Events Alumni News News Events Awards & Achievements Event News For the Press Giving How to Give Department Donors Development Staff Donor Spotlight Advisory Council Resources Computer Requirements Interior Design Textbook List Studio D Connect Contact Newsletters Site Map X × Department of Interior Architecture + Design News April 12, 2022 IAD’s Student Resource Room Sponsored by Wolf Gor … The Interior Architecture & Design Department at FSU has long prioritized preparing students for successful engagement with practice, including the effective specification of interior products such as flooring, wall and READ MORE » Atlanta’s IA Interior Architects Sponsors FSU’s … The studio sequence of courses within the Department’s undergraduate program offers critically important problem-solving opportunities for students. Situated midway in the five-studio sequence, Studio 3 addresses workplace design, an important READ MORE » March 21, 2022 FSU IA&D Celebrates Alumni Achievements This year’s notable alumni award winners inspire students with their advice and stories of success. READ MORE » March 8, 2022 FSU IA&D and R. Frank Nims Middle School Collaborat … To engage in design is to commit to making a place, an object, or a situation better. Students from the IAD Department were laser focused on that objective on February 11 in a hands-on event intending to brainstorm design ideas to a local space in Tallahassee. READ MORE » February 10, 2022 IA&D Graduate Students Design a Memorial to the En … Honoring the memory of enslaved persons who lived and toiled at the historic Goodwood Plantation. READ MORE » January 27, 2022 IA&D Celebrates 2022 Charrette Winners Students in the Department of Interior Architecture & Design are asked to design a meeting place for a secret society, complete with passwords and procedures for accessing its hidden passageways. READ MORE » More News » Shaping Spaces, Shaping Lives We provide students the knowledge necessary to pursue careers as interior designers who create functional,sustainable, and beautiful built environments that positively and equitably impact people and society. Learn More » Events » News » Programs » 1 of 4 One of only four public institution undergraduate interior design programs ranked in the top 13 most admired U.S. programs by DesignIntelligence. 1 of 3 One of only three public institution graduate interior design programs ranked in the top 10 most admired U.S. programs by DesignIntelligence. 100% All students placed in at least one internship prior to graduation. 89% Average student job placement rate within 9 months of gradation 2015-2021. Learn More Programs Apply Contact Faculty and Staff » Resources » Contact Us » Come See What We're All About Studio Life Apply Now Visitor Info Schedule Tour What's Happening IAD’s Student Resource Room Sponsored by Wolf Gor … April 12, 2022 Atlanta’s IA Interior Architects Sponsors FSU’s … FSU IA&D Celebrates Alumni Achievements March 21, 2022 FSU IA&D and R. Frank Nims Middle School Collaborat … March 8, 2022 IA&D Graduate Students Design a Memorial to the En … February 10, 2022 More News » IAD’s Student Resource Room Sponsored by Wolf Gor … April 12, 2022 The Interior Architecture & Design Department at FSU has long prioritized preparing students for successful engagement with practice, including the effective specification of interior products such as flooring, wall and Read More Current Month Date Title june 2022 Host All Academic Engagement Art CAB CAB - 229 CFA College Leadership Council College of Fine Arts Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design Facility for Arts Research (FAR) FSU Career Center FSU Center for Undergraduate Research Museum of Fine Arts School of Dance School of Theatre The Ringling William Johnston Building (WJB) William Johnston Building (WJB) - First Floor Event Location All Carnaghi Arts Building (CAB) Civic Center CMX Cinemas Fallschase Connestee Falls Cherokee Reception Room Fine Arts Building (FAB) Fine Arts Building (FAB) 249 Fine Arts Building (FAB) 250 Florida Business Interiors Florida State Capitol Building JC Penny Landis Green Lee Hall Auditorium Montgomery Hall (MON) Moore Auditorium Museum of Fine Arts (MoFA) Nancy Smith Fichter Dance Theatre Oglesby Union Ballroom Oglesby Union Gallery Phyllis Straus Gallery Richard G. Fallon Theatre Steelcase WorkLife Center TCC Student Union Ballroom Turnbull Conference Center Venvi Art Gallery Virtual William Johnston Building (WJB) William Johnston Building (WJB) Café William Johnston Building (WJB) G40 William Johnston Building (WJB) Room 1701 (Critique Space) William Johnston Building (WJB) Room 2004 William Johnston Building Gallery (WJB Gallery) William Johnston Building, Art and Design Library Toggle navigation First Pro About About the Department About the College A Welcome From the Chair Facilities By-Laws Programs Undergraduate Program Graduate Program London Study Abroad Program How To Apply Showcase Faculty Biographies Guest Speaker Series Student Work Yearly Awards People Faculty / Staff Students Visiting Designers & Scholars Department of Interior Architecture & Design Advisory Council Professors Emeriti News / Events Alumni News News Events Awards & Achievements Event News For the Press Giving How to Give Department Donors Development Staff Donor Spotlight Advisory Council Resources Computer Requirements Interior Design Textbook List Studio D Connect Contact Newsletters Site Map CFA Social Media Report web issues English Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish © 2022 Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 FSU Social Media: This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT Name First Last Email Department or Program of Interest Request Information on All Programs Department of Interest* Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of DanceSchool of TheatreUnsure / All Programs Start an Application Request Information No Thanks - I just want to learn more Additional Comments CAPTCHA Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ CLOSE Name First Last Email Department or Program of Interest Request Information on All Programs Department of Interest* Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of DanceSchool of TheatreUnsure / All Programs Start an Application Request Information No Thanks - I just want to learn more Additional Comments CAPTCHA Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ CLOSE X X X