Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University LAS International Student Network Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home People Resources Home Welcome We at LAS International Student Network would like to extend a warm welcome to all LAS international students regardless of where you are right now. LAS International Student Network is a network that is part of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences which was created to support the success of international students in our college. Think of Iowa State University as your neighborhood. In this neighborhood, LAS is your house. Your academic department is like your room in the house, while LAS International Student Network is your family. We do programming to help build connections between domestic and international students and within the international community. We also provide educational resources to support you in your academics (in aspects such as career advancement, research opportunities, scholarships and so much more!) No matter where you are, you are still a part of our LAS International family and we would love to have you join us for future programs and events! Make sure to follow us on social media and check out our weekly newsletters for resources and opportunities to connect with other students. Welcome to a place where you can fulfill your potential, challenge yourself with new perspectives, and grow as a person. I have learned that it is important to fully utilize the opportunities that have been given to me. Through these opportunities, I was truly able to develop my potential and skills. I have also learned that it is important to ask for help if I have any difficulties. The staff and faculty were more than happy to attend to any questions that I had and to help me with anything as they all are passionate for student success at Iowa State” Brenda I gained confidence. ISU provided many diverse opportunities to practice leadership skills, research skills, and interaction with others. I also gained love from ISU. There were so many people I have met who encouraged and cheered me to study and step outside of my comfort zone to explore the world. The love and confidence I gained developed me as a better person so that I can take further steps in a bigger society.” Ye-Lim College of Liberal Arts and Sciences LAS International Student Network LAS International Student Network Navya Mannengi 102 Catt Hall 2224 Osborn Dr Ames, IA 50011 lasintlnetwork@iastate.edu 515-294-1253 phone Facebook instagram YouTube Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...