Skip to main content Main navigation About Us Investment Approach Impact Sustainability Team Careers Impact Penn's students, faculty, and staff are changing the world. The endowment helps make it possible. Impact Stories Penn’s endowment provides critical support to the University’s mission and programs by funding financial aid, teaching, research, healthcare, and more. We’re proud to share some examples of the difference the endowment is making. Jump to a section: Students Faculty And Research Local and Global Community Students Penn World Scholars The Penn World Scholars Program offers financial, social, intellectual, and professional support to a diverse group of exceptional undergraduate students from around the world. Read more 21st Century Scholars Endowed Fund This program, founded by Walter Gamble (M’57) and Anne Gamble, invests in future doctors by providing 30 scholarships annually to exceptional students at the Perelman School of Medicine. Read more Moelis Advance Access Program Ken Moelis (W’80, WG’81) and Julie Taffet Moelis (W’81) have created an exciting pathway to a Wharton MBA through this submatriculation program offering deferred enrollment to outstanding undergraduates, allowing them to pursue other opportunities before returning to Penn. Read more Stavros Niarchos Foundation Paideia Program Penn launched the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Paideia Program in fall 2019 as a five-year pilot program for undergraduate students to encourage meaningful discourse among future civic leaders through 12 new interdisciplinary courses and complementary co-curricular experiences and events. Read more Faculty And Research Penn Integrates Knowledge (PIK) University Professors Distinguished by their interdisciplinary research and teaching, these academic pioneers share a drive to solve complex, real-world problems by working across traditional university boundaries. Read more Breast Cancer Translational Center of Excellence Located in the Abramson Cancer Center and run by Penn Medicine, this program aims to reduce breast cancer recurrence through clinical trials, while medical students build their skills and test treatment methods. Read more The Sachs Program for Arts Innovation The Sachs Program for Arts Innovation awards grants each year to Penn staff, faculty, and students who propose initiatives that further creative innovation. Notably, the program supports new freshman seminars and other courses specific to the expertise and interests of Penn’s talented professors Read more Program on Opinion Research and Election Studies (PORES) John Lapinski (the Robert A. Fox Professor of Political Science) founded and directs the Penn Program on Opinion Research and Election Studies (PORES), an undergraduate research program that integrates traditional political science theory with survey research and data analytics. Through Lapinski’s role as Director of the Elections Unit at NBC News, Penn faculty, undergraduate students, and research fellows can access the latest polling data leading into elections. Read more Center for the Analysis of Archaeological Materials (CAAM) The Center for the Analysis of Archaeological Materials (CAAM), a joint endeavor between the Penn Museum and the School of Arts and Sciences, conducts archaeology courses for Penn graduate and undergraduate students to build hands-on experience across a range of scientific techniques. Read more Local and Global Community Quattrone Center The center is a nonpartisan, national research and policy hub producing and disseminating research designed to prevent errors in the criminal justice system, including groundbreaking research on misdemeanor pretrial detention. Read more The Kleinman Center for Energy Policy The Center’s mission is to cultivate energy policy innovation and application by creating opportunities for students, researchers, and professionals to debate viewpoints, explore options, and develop agendas for decision and action. Read more Netter Center for Community Partnerships Endowed by Barbara and Edward Netter, the center pursues a range of programs, including community school student partnerships, university-assisted community schools, literacy programs, and more. Read more Global Engagement Fund This competitive grant program awards funding to creative, cross-disciplinary projects furthering Penn’s global initiatives. Read more 2929 Walnut Street, Suite 100 Philadelphia, PA 19104 United States Phone (215) 746.5320 Fax (215) 746.5370 Footer menu Copyright Information Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn Giving Contact Us Disclaimer Penn Home