Skip to main content Join our email list for IOP events and other notices. Sign up today! Follow the IOP on Twitter for info on events and programs that you may have missed. Follow Us The Institute of Politics at Harvard University Click to open search Search Vote Programs Calendar Share Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Listen on iTunes Forum Upcoming Forums Past Forums The Forum Podcast Institutional Antiracism and Accountability (IARA) Project Series Fellows Spring 2022 Resident Fellows Former Fellows Apply to be a Fellow About Visiting Fellows Program Office Hours Youth Poll Spring 2022 Harvard Youth Poll Fall 2021 Poll Spring 2021 Poll Past Polls Student Programs Campaign & Advocacy Program Citizenship Tutoring CIVICS Community Action Fellows & Study Groups Harvard Political Review Harvard Political Union Harvard Public Opinion Project Harvard Votes Challenge Internships & Careers John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum The Policy Program Politics of Race and Ethnicity STEAM Women's Initiative in Leadership Conferences Campaign Managers Conference Newly Elected Mayors Newly Elected Members of Congress New Frontier Awards IOP Emerging Leaders National Campaign About Staff Student Leadership News Founding Senior Advisory Committee Calendar This April in the virtual JFK Jr. Forum The Ukrainian Refugee Crisis Watch Now Chef José Andrés of the World Central Kitchen, Michelle Nunn, President and CEO of CARE USA, and Mayor Wojciech Bakun of Przemyśl, Poland, discuss their work on the frontlines of the war. Harvard Public Opinion Project Spring 2022 Harvard Youth Poll Read More Nearly half of LGBTQ youth feel under attack "a lot"; Biden's approval rating continues to slide to 41% in the 43rd Harvard Youth Poll. This April in the JFK Jr. Forum Voting: A Right or a Requirement? Watch Now E.J. Dionne, Miles Rapoport, Christine Chen, and Cornell William Brooks discuss universal participation in our elections to strengthen American democracy. This April in the JFK Jr. Forum A Conversation with Congressman Jamie Raskin Watch Now Congressman Jamie Raskin addresses the Forum about the state of our democracy and the domestic and global challenges we face. Announcing the IOP Emerging Leaders Learn More Meet our inaugural group of leaders from 14 to 25 years old who have made a significant contribution in politics and public service. Remembering Ken Duberstein Former IOP Senior Advisory Committee Chairman and Chief of Staff to President Reagan Ken Duberstein was a dear friend of the IOP and an inspiration to many of our students. We send our deepest condolences to his wife Jackie, his children, and everyone mourning his loss. Register to Vote Join a Programs Attend an Events Follow / Share Twitter Facebook Google+ YouTube Listen on iTunes OUR MISSION + PASSION The Institute of Politics (IOP) at Harvard Kennedy School was established as a living memorial to America's youngest elected president, John F. Kennedy. Since its founding half a century ago, the Institute has used its programming and activities to ignite passion, appreciation and respect for politics and public service in the hearts and minds of every generation. More » TheJFK Jr Forum Forum » Upcoming Forums Check back in September for our fall programming Featured Strengthening Democratic Institutions Featured Race, Media and Politics Featured A Conversation with Malala Yousafzai Featured America and the World: A Conversation with Ambassador Caroline Kennedy & Senator Ed Markey Featured Goldsmith Awards Ceremony 2019 with Marty Baron Featured Free Speech, Open Minds and the Pursuit of Truth Featured Robotland: The Future of Labor Policy and Work in an AI World Featured A Conversation with John Kerry Featured Brexit: What’s Next? Featured Moral Resistance: When Faith & Activism Meet in the Streets Featured Big Tech and Democracy HarvardPolitics 4 hours 38 min ago RT @HarvardPolitics: As one of the key figures responsible for turning Georgia blue in the 2020 Election, Nsé Ufot shares her insights into… Reply Retweet Favorite CornellWBrooks 3 days 2 hours ago RT @CornellWBrooks: My students from the classes of 2020 & 2021 are enjoying their @Harvard IN PERSON commencements today. Treasure your… Reply Retweet Favorite HarvardIOP 5 days 3 hours ago We had a fantastic time celebrating our graduating seniors with family members and IOP staff this week in Kirkland… t.co/yo42zJzUaI Reply Retweet Favorite PROGRAMS FOR UNDERGRADUATES The IOP offers 16 major programs for undergraduate involvement including the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum, a fellowship program with top political practitioners, over 100 paid internships; a nonpartisan, quarterly journal; and a nationwide survey project of millennials’ political views. Campaign and Advocacy Program (CAP) Citizenship Tutoring Civics Community Action Fellows & Study Groups Harvard Political Review Harvard Political Union Harvard Votes Challenge Internships and Career Services John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum National Campaign Policy Groups Politics of Race and Ethnicity Public Opinion Project STEAM Women's Initiative in Leadership Subscribe to the IOP Newsletter Harvard IOP ©2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Contact Us Privacy Statement Trademark Notice Harvard University Harvard Kennedy School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Listen on iTunes