Skip to main content Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Cornell University Home College of Agriculture & Life Sciences Home Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Global Development Main navigation Education & Training Undergraduate MPS Ph.D. Engaged Learning Professional Development & Training Our Work Research Outreach & Extension Our Initiatives Publications Our Impact News & Events News Events About People Diversity & Inclusion Navigation Main mobile navigation Education & Training Education & Training Overview Undergraduate MPS Ph.D. Engaged Learning Professional Development & Training Our Work Our Work Overview Research Outreach & Extension Our Initiatives Publications Our Impact Our Impact Overview News & Events News & Events Overview News Events About About Overview People Diversity & Inclusion Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Undergraduate Breadcrumb Home Global Development Education & Training Your journey to make the world a better place starts here At Global Development, we don’t sit still. Here our students engage with real-world issues at home and abroad to deliver lasting social benefit to all. We connect science to the needs of people to improve lives, reduce inequality, protect the environment, and actually change the world for the better. Major in Global Development The Global Development major responds to the need for innovative and critical thinking on the concept and practice of development. It prepares students to interpret problems, clarify solutions, develop leadership and foster positive social change. Students receive comprehensive training in the key ideas, issues, and debates central to global development. All students take a breadth of interdisciplinary coursework in development scholarship and practice and gain depth in a concentration of their choice, selecting from social and economic development, agriculture and food systems or environment and development. GDEV major requirements Engaged learning requirements Apply to the major More Undergraduate Majors and Minors Community Food Systems Education Development Sociology International Agriculture and Rural Development (IARD) Back to list of careers Community Food Systems Minor In Community Food Systems, you'll learn to engage with critical contemporary issues relating to food security, food sovereignty, and food justice. This minor integrates interdisciplinary course work with community-based learning and research opportunities that together help students contribute to more sustainable and equitable food systems. Learn more about the Community Food Systems minor. Back to list of careers Education Minor Prepare for a career in teaching and lifelong learning by taking courses in education while at Cornell. This minor will not only prepare you for the classroom, but also for engaged learning at any stage in life. Learn more about the minor in Education. Back to list of careers Development Sociology Major The Development Sociology major will be welcoming its final class of first-year students in the Fall of 2021. We will be accepting sophomore transfers through the Spring of 2022 and junior transfers through the Fall of 2022. We encourage students interested in this program to explore the new Global Development major, which is accepting first-year students for Fall of 2022. Development sociology is about understanding how society works in order to better tackle poverty and improve the health, income, education, and well-being of people. It's purpose-driven and community-focused: we like our work to have real world impact, and we like to work with people and communities directly. Our curriculum will provide you the skills and training to diagnose, understand, and contribute to solutions in issue areas like food security, sustainable development, and climate change adaptation. Learn more about the Development Sociology major. Back to list of careers International Agriculture and Rural Development (IARD) Major The International Agriculture and Rural Development major will be welcoming its final class of first-year students in the Fall of 2021. We encourage students interested in this program to explore the new Global Development major, which is accepting first-year students for Fall of 2022. Our IARD major is designed for students who are interested in tackling the unique and interdisciplinary issues associated with food systems and rural development in emerging nations. You’ll have the opportunity to gain meaningful experience, hands-on by participating in projects and research all over the world. Our students prepare to make a real world impact on rural communities across the globe with concentrations in economics and development, agricultural and food systems, or environment and ecosystems. Learn more about the IARD major. Resources for current students Are you a current student trying to find information? Look no further for information and forms for: Global Development major IARD major Development Sociology major Education minor Community Food Systems minor Explore resources Image Caption Button Karthikeyan Palanisamy, left, of Regal Chocolates speaks with IARD students about production and marketing techniques at his pesticide-free cacao farm in India. Photo by Chris Knight/Cornell University Where are they now? Learn more about where a Global Development education can take you. Ben Fields '20 Quick View Close quick view Ben Fields '20 Ph.D. student in Sociology, UC Berkeley "This is a department that will teach you the non-status quo information that is not usually taught in the classroom, which will change your entire fundamental framework of seeing the world." Hannah Fuller '19 Quick View Close quick view Hannah Fuller '19 Communications associate, Farmers Market Coalition "It was the deep understanding from my Community Food Systems minor about the value of putting community first that really prepared me best to listen and serve in my career." Alexander King '15 Quick View Close quick view Alexander King '15 Chief of staff, FirstWave Group (Zambia) “Understanding the role of agriculture as a mobilizer in emerging markets allowed me not only to engage more deeply with my work but gave me a critical understanding of how agricultural markets play out across economic, social and environmental areas.” Connie Potter '16 Quick View Close quick view Connie Potter '16 Legal associate, Keller and Heckman LLP “My experiences at Cornell have allowed me to methodically approach legal questions and consider the consequences of their solutions with a global perspective.” Anastashia Alfred '20 Quick View Close quick view Anastashia Alfred '20 Cloud Analyst, Oracle “My time at CALS helped further my understanding of systemic and structural inequality at each level of the social hierarchy and fueled my passion to aid and be a light to those disenfranchised by the system.” Keelin Kelly '20 Quick View Close quick view Keelin Kelly '20 Legal & Marketing Analyst "Making connections with people, sharing resources and knowledge and working together towards a better solution is truly irreplaceable." Undergrad Research Spotlight Social Justice Christina Ochoa '23 earns national award for addressing social change Christina earned the Newman Civic Fellowship for her efforts to transform systemic injustice in prisons and parole policies. Ochoa advocates for incarcerated people serving life sentences in New York state through the Cornell University Parole Initiative. Read more Affordable Housing Lorelei Meidenbauer ’22: A vision for justice in affordable housing Lorelei's passion for affordable housing and social justice in the U.S. is helping create a flourishing world. From supporting rural schools in New York State through grant writing to biking across the country with Bike & Build, Lorelei seeks to make an impact in the classroom and in real world communities. Explore more Local Activism Streetology: Stories of Community Engagement Through Lived Experience A new book published by Cornell students honors the journeys and life’s work of 13 Cornell Civic Leader Fellows, who are grassroots leaders that have played critical roles in developing resilient communities in and around Ithaca. For the past five years, undergraduate students documented the oral histories of local community leaders as part of their senior capstone course. Students capture oral histories of Ithaca leaders in book Environmental Sociology Beyond the Surface: Climate, Creatures and Contamination In Professor Zinda's Environmental Sociology course, students produce public-facing articles about environmental controversies that interest them, analyzing reasons that produced the issue and also offering potential solutions. Read the essays Environmental Sustainability Mary Beth Dale '21 An international internship brought Mary Beth to study sustainability, tropical ecology and eco-tourism in Costa Rica. There in the country's lush central region she explored diverse ecosystems and gained perspective on how people balance business and the environment. Creating sustainable paths forward International Agriculture & Rural Development Global Fellows CALS Global Fellows adapted to the COVID-19 pandemic by working virtually for organizations in Italy, Thailand and Kenya. International Agriculture and Rural Development (IARD) seniors Annie Weiss '21, Khusel Avirmed '21 and Matthew Sorge '21 were up for the adventure. CALS Global Fellows: Work from Home Edition Gender & Income Equality Elena Setiadarma ’21 The intersection between agriculture and technology drove Elena to explore innovative ways to take her passion for issues of gender and income inequality and transform her ideas into reality. Taking classroom lessons to the global stage Spotlight Slider Previous Next Contact Us Contact Sarah Giroux Associate Professor of the Practice Department of Global Development Director of Undergraduate Studies Department of Global Development Close contact Sarah Giroux (607) 254-2896 sh104 [at] cornell.edu Decompositional Methods Demography of Inequality and Poverty Empirics Of Development and Inequality Contact Lynn Morris Undergraduate Program Coordinator Department of Global Development Close contact Lynn Morris (607) 255-3092 lm747 [at] cornell.edu Contact Heidi Mouillesseaux-Kunzman Senior Extension Associate Department of Global Development Education Minor Coordinator Department of Global Development Close contact Heidi Mouillesseaux-Kunzman (607) 255-0417 hmm1 [at] cornell.edu Community development Civic engagement Engaged learning and research Join us in the fight to build a more equitable world Cornell undergraduate admissions CALS transfer appplicants CALS internal transfer Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information