Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Future International Students Home In-Person and Virtual Admissions Events Degrees and Programs Majors and Degrees Academic English Undergraduate Foundation Program International Master’s Program WSU Prospectus Request Information Apply Applications and Forms Deadlines and Dates Requirements How to Apply Costs and Scholarships Tuition and Fees Scholarships and Funding Employment Next Steps Accept Your Offer Visas Get the Proper Visa F-1 Students J-1 Students Bringing Dependents Official Transcripts Housing Orientation and Advising Student Life Traveling to Campus Understand Your Transfer Credits Remote Study Common Questions Chat with an International Student Ambassador Contact Us International Programs Home Representing WSU myWSU Arabic – اللغة العربية (Middle East) Chinese – 中文这个词 Indonesian – kata bahasa Indonesia dalam bahasa Portuguese – Português (Brasil) Russian – русский Spanish – Español (Latin America) Thai – ไทย Turkish – Türkçe Vietnamese – dân tộc Việt nam facebook twitter Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Future International Students Future Students Apply Request information Campus Information After You Apply Learn English Scholarships / Funding WSU IS OPEN https://s3.wp.wsu.edu/uploads/sites/619/2022/05/wsu_is_open-1080p.mp4 Applications are now being accepted! Apply Now Deadlines and dates Admission requirements How to apply Start your application If you have questions, please contact International Undergraduate Admissions. What Do You Want to Study? Washington State University offers 101 major fields of study for undergraduates. Earning a WSU degree brings lifetime membership in a closely bonded group of people who support each other personally and professionally wherever they are located around the world. Our programs also include specialization tracks, minors, and certificates—so you can be sure that your degree will reflect your strengths and interests. Find your major Student Inquiries If you would like information about attending Washington State University, we will be happy to assist you. REQUEST INFORMATION Campus Information Choose Your Unique Academic Experience Washington State University offers bachelor’s degrees in 5 different locations across the state of Washington. While every location offers the same high standard of education, each has its own unique academic focus and student experience. Pullman A Traditional Campus in a Classic College Town WSU Pullman is the University’s first and largest campus. It offers the widest range of degree programs and research opportunities—plus the amazing experience of living on campus in one of America’s finest college towns. Explore the student experience Tri-Cities A STEM-Focused Campus WSU Tri-Cities emphasizes a “learning while doing” approach to educating students while focusing on the STEM disciplines (science, technology, engineering, and math) and professional schools (i.e., business, nursing, and education) grounded in the liberal arts and social sciences. Vancouver An Intimate Urban Campus WSU Vancouver is the only 4-year research university in southwest Washington. Set amid stunning scenery, its urban campus combines a small-college feel with the resources of an internationally respected research university. Spokane An Urban Campus in a Major Medical Hub WSU Spokane, located near the medical district of Washington’s second-largest city, offers degree programs that focus on health science and medical education. The highly regarded School of Nursing at WSU Spokane is the largest nursing program in the northwestern United States. Before applying for study in Spokane, you will need to complete your program’s prerequisites at another campus. Everett A Focus on Transfer Students WSU Everett offers bachelor’s degree completion programs through the Everett University Center on the Everett Community College campus. WSU’s programs in Everett focus on fields that are in high demand in Seattle and the North Puget Sound area. Before applying for study in Everett, you will need to complete the first 2 years of your bachelor’s degree program at another campus. 7% of WSU students are international 98 countries are home to current WSU students 30% of WSU students identify as ethnic minorities 50 U.S. states are home to current WSU students More facts I found a lot of opportunities at Washington State University in terms of academics. It is great to come to a place with a professional faculty. There are so many cultures and different languages at WSU that enrich your life.” Ismael Cifuentes Colombia After You Apply When you have been offered admission, take these steps to get ready to come to WSU. Next steps Learn English at WSU WSU’s Intensive American Language Center in Pullman offers English as a Second Language courses and International Master’s and undergraduate Foundation programs that prepare international students for study at the University by allowing students to complete non-degree coursework along with English and academic support. Academic English and international Master’s and Foundation courses offer: Opportunities to learn from highly qualified, top faculty/professors at WSU Student-centered instruction allows an immersive language-learning experience Specialized programs offer credit toward your university degree Office hours and conferencing with teachers for personal attention Direct support from your academic advisor and student services A full-service experience for academic assistance from the Learning Support Center Opportunities to practice language with other students and teachers Why choose to study at WSU AE? Students can start their studies with a high level of support so they are ready for the full university experience The program has been accredited for over 20 years Our faculty and staff have an average of 9 years of experience teaching English as a Second Language and use current research and practice to make sure you have the best experience possible Pullman, Washington, Is a safe, friendly college town where recreation abounds. It is one of the best places to learn English in America Requirements Students should submit a TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo score to be placed in the appropriate level 3-6. If no score is submitted, students will be placed in the lowest level. Suitable for students with minimum language level TOEFL (32-79), IELTS (3.0-6.0), Duolingo (65-120). Students will be assessed upon program start to conﬁrm placement in correct level. Application Contact us to apply. For more information, contact ialc@wsu.edu. Scholarships and Funding WSU reserves scholarships specifically for international students—and you are welcome to apply for many other awards that are open to all students. Scholarships Cost of attendance International Programs /* ============= UNIBUDDY ====================*/