Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Research subipat Research Home IPaT Home About Overview Contact Us Directory IPaT Leadership IPaT Research Faculty IPaT Support Team Research Network IPaT Star Award Research Overview Lifelong Health and Well-Being Smart Cities and Inclusive Innovation Shaping the Human-Technology Frontier Platforms and Services for Socio-Technical Systems Research Facilities IPaT Research Expo Faculty Faculty Faculty Resources Funding Opportunities Collaborative Initiatives COVID-19 Funding Opportunities Industry Student Opportunities News News IPaT Insider Newsletter Videos Events Events IPaT Thursday Think Tank Convergence Innovation Competition Industry Innovation Day 2020 Esports Symposium and Invitational Town Hall & Other Event Presentations Open Search Search Search Institute for People and Technology HELP Didn’t find what you are looking for? We'd like to help! GT Community Inquiries Contact: Office of EVPR Team All Other Inquiries Contact: Georgia Parmelee, Director of Research Communications Breadcrumb Home People and Technology Overview New AI Institute Builds Tech to Support Aging A team of researchers has won a five-year, $20 million grant from the National Science Foundation to build intelligent systems that support aging. IPaT’s expertise in technology for “aging in place” will play a key role in the funded research program. Read More » Uniquely Designed Research Reveals Resilience Among LGBTQ+ Individuals During the Pandemic Research » Georgia Tech Helps Tucker Middle School Students Win National Award for Anti-human Trafficking Device News » Lifelong Health and Well-Being Promoting and enabling vibrant and lifelong physical and mental health Smart Cities and Inclusive Innovation Creating sustainable cities with research that thinks globally while acting locally Shaping the Human-Technology Frontier Shaping the human-technology frontier by augmenting human capabilities at every level Platforms & Services for Socio-Technical Systems Merging physical and digital worlds with complex data analytic and communication capabilities Featured Research Videos Smart Solutions on the Georgia Coast The Smart Sea Level Sensors project is a partnership between Chatham Emergency Management Agency officials, City of Savannah officials, and Georgia Tech scientists and engineers who are working together to install a network of internet-enabled sea level sensors across Chatham County. The real-time data on coastal flooding will be used for emergency planning and response. Watch Video | More Details CopyCat: Helping Young Deaf Children Acquire Language Skills Using Sign Language Recognition CopyCat and PopSign are two games that help deaf children and their parents acquire language skills in American Sign Language. 95% of deaf children are born to hearing parents, and most of those parents never learn enough sign language to teach... Watch Video | More Details Project Aether: A tool to support communication between brain tumor patients and healthcare providers Project Aether focuses on bridging the knowledge gap brain tumor and peak anxiety brain tumor patients experience after their initial diagnosis. As a tablet application, it comprises a patient workspace for consolidating information relating to... Watch Video | More Details More Research Videos Check out IPaT's Research Expo website that features some of the ongoing research projects at the Institute for People and Technology and Georgia Tech. We encourage you to explore projects within our broad research areas or explore those projects by research topic. Research Expo About IPaT The Institute for People and Technology (IPaT) brings together researchers from across Georgia Tech to support world-class research, engage students, and collaborate with industry, government, and non-profit partners. Our Mission » News Summer Research Interns Selected Six students were hired for the 2022 summer research internship program created by the Institute of People and Technology (IPaT). This summer… Advancing the Future of Work The National Science Foundation (NSF) has identified the “Future of Work at the Human-… Faces of Research: Meet Duen Horng "Polo" Chau IDEaS is one of Georgia Tech's 10 interdisciplinary research institutes within the Georgia Tech Research enterprise. … VirusTrack Wins Convergence Innovation Competition Team VirusTrack was named the winner of the Georgia Tech Convergence Innovation Competition (CIC) for spring 2022. The winning team members are… More News » Events Sunday June 19 Juneteenth - Campus Closed Campus will close in observance of Juneteenth National Independence Day Monday September 5 Labor Day - Campus Closed The Georgia Tech campus will be closed in observance of Labor Day. More Events » Researchers in the News Social Media Offers a Trove of Information for Medical Researchers Wall Street Journal, April 10, 2022 3 possibilities for our climate-ravaged future—and the solutions that could prevent the worst Fast Company, Feb. 23, 2022 The price of a pre-pandemic lifestyle Harvard Gazette, April 1, 2022 A New Trick Lets Artificial Intelligence See in 3D Wired, Feb. 7, 2022 Simulation study predicts COVID-19 deaths will rebound sooner or later when all restrictions are lifted Massachusetts General Hospital, April 1, 2022 Frictionless UX Isn’t Always Better BuiltIn, March 22, 2022 How TikTok's design helps turn ordinary people into villains CBC Radio, March 4, 2022 Senate passes legislation to make daylight saving time permanent The Southerner, April 18, 2022 Georgia Tech's music competition invites innovators to build one-of-a-kind instruments WABE, March 9, 2022 Interest in post-grad computer science programs spiked during pandemic ZDNet, March 31, 2022 Evaluating scenarios for school reopening under COVID19 BMC Public Health, March 14, 2022 The rise of citational justice: how scholars are making references fairer Nature, March 22, 2022 This horse-riding astronaut is a milestone in AI’s journey to make sense of the world MIT Technology Review, April 6, 2022 Nashville pop trio Coin (and a robot) make debut on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live' The Tennessean, March 23, 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Accessibility Download PDF Reader Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN