Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage Home About Us Our Work News and Events Stop Animation Stop Animation Stop Animation Stop Animation Stop Animation Stop Animation Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage Welcome Yale’s Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage is a research collaborative, dedicated to the preservation and interpretation of material culture. Our work connects Yale students, scholars, and collections, catalyzing wide-ranging partnerships that bridge art and science in a unique space for learning, creativity, and innovation. News and Events Photography program encourages local students to savor ‘The View From Here’ March 17, 2022 Mike Cummings, Yale News. Sarah Onyinyechukwu Okeke has a passion for photography and a keen understanding of how a photograph can connect people. “The thing about... Gilchrest to direct Yale’s Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage March 1, 2022 Mike Cummings, Yale News. Alison Gilchrest, who for over a decade has led national and international initiatives to promote collaboration in the field of cultural heritage... Preventing Dyes, and a Cultural Tradition, From Fading February 23, 2022 Yale Engineering, 2021-2022 (p.58). Every artwork comes with its own set of challenges for conservators and curators, not the least of which is curbing the effects of time.... IPCH expands support for Yale Collections, future scholar pipeline February 3, 2022 Jon Atherton, Yale West Campus News. Yale’s IPCH has expanded its efforts to research, innovate, and train the next generation of conservation scientists with the... More news and events... The Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage connects the sciences, arts, and humanities by working across collections and academic departments – we share our knowledge through teaching and mentorship at Yale and in collaboration with a wide range of partners worldwide.” Alison Gilchrest, Director Contact Us Laurie Batza, Senior Administrative Assistant ipch@yale.edu Phone: 203.737.3159 Fax: 203.737.8313 Mailing Address IPCH P.O. Box 27395 West Haven, CT 06516-7395 Shipping Address IPCH 300 Heffernan Drive Building 900 West Haven, CT 06516 Yale West Campus We are one of seven research institutes on Yale’s West Campus. IPCH visits can be arranged by appointment. Driving directions Shuttle schedule between main campus and West Campus West Campus map - IPCH is located in the Collection Studies Center, Bldg. 900 Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Our People | Contact Us | Yale West Campus Instagram Facebook Twitter