Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Interactive Product Design Lab School of Industrial Design Main navigation About Director's Welcome Contact Us Research Research Projects Lab Projects Student Projects Research Projects Publications Get Involved Lab Mentors Courses Offered Services Hours & Event Calendar People Open Search Search Technology Focused on Design Technology Focused on Design The Interactive Product Design Lab (IPDL), part of the School of Industrial Design at Georgia Tech, is a multi-functional space that supports interdisciplinary team-based collaborative research. The lab facilitates courses related to the application of sensor-based technologies for use in everyday products and systems. The IPDL is unique: it is operated by both faculty and students working together. This combination produces a welcoming space where innovative design thinkers can create and collaborate through projects, initiatives, and research. The IPDL caters to curious minds and gives many students and faculty a space to interact and discover. About the Lab Get Involved The Lab In Action Research The IPDL offers a collaborative space for interdisciplinary research incorporating design and interactive technologies. Projects The IPDL supports courses and research for students to investigate, explore, and experiment with interactive technologies. Services Lab mentors provide support with the lab's many resources and faculty offer years of experience in application and research. Open Hours The lab has regular open hours throughout the week, access to tools and materials, and various student lead initiatives. Featured Research Project Latent Sheep Dreaming: Machine for Extrapolated Visual Inception Jiewen Wang, Ollie Hsieh, Jack Gale, Sienna Sun, Sang-won Leigh This installation explores the tension between human and machine agents in generative processes, inspired by Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?. A participant in an empty room is instructed to draw sheep at a stylus console. The stylus input is transformed into a matrix of locally and globally affected outputs. The result is increasingly unrecognizable with system influence, connoting how artists relinquish creative ownership to machines. Outputs are projected onto a wall and physicalized by a pen plotter. A collaboration between IPDL and Machine Poetics group, this project was accepted to DIS 2020. See the Project Explore Research in the Lab Take a virtual tour Ready to experience the IPDL and the School of Industrial Design from your screen? Take a walk through our building and stop by the IPDL for a 360 look at its resources. Have a VR headset or Google Cardboard? You can use these devices to take the tour on your mobile device. Start Your Tour Helpful Links School of Industrial Design The IPDL is a reseach lab within the School of Industrial Design, which offers an evidence-based approach to design. School Resources & Covid-19 Safety Stay informed on building guidelines and access our quick links to health and safety resouces from Stamps Health Services. Designing for a Child's Curiosity ID students team up with the Children's Museum of Atlanta to bring about ideas for six exhibits. Questions? If you can't find the information you were looking for, we'll get you to the right place. Contact Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN User account menu Log in