Skip to main content Public Health Genetics is a dynamic and evolving field established to tackle the challenges of using genomic information to improve population health. MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Prospective Students Programs Core Competencies Graduate Certificate MS in Genetic Epidemiology MPH in Public Health Genetics Ph.D. in Public Health Genetics Courses FAQ Student Resources UW Student Guide Additional Links People Faculty Profiles Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Contact Information Institute for Public Health Genetics UW School of Public Health Public Health Genetics is a dynamic and evolving field established to tackle the challenges of using genomic information to improve population health. Institute for Public Health Genetics University of Washington | School of Public Health Menu Home Home Prospective Students Programs Core Competencies Graduate Certificate MS in Genetic Epidemiology MPH in Public Health Genetics Ph.D. in Public Health Genetics Courses FAQ Student Resources UW Student Guide Additional Links People Faculty Profiles Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Contact Information Apply for Autumn 2022 The admission cycle for Autumn 2022 admissions has closed. The Institute for Public Health Genetics will being accepting applications for the Autumn 2023 admission cycle on September 1, 2022. Applications for the Autumn 2023 cycle will be due by January 31, 2023, once the application has opened. Please visit our prospective students page for information on the application process and requirements. Bruce Weir elected to Royal Society of London Join us in congratulating Dr. Bruce Weir, Institute director and professor in the Department of Biostatistics, on his election as a Fellow of the Royal Society of London for Improving Natural Knowledge for his contribution to the theory of population and quantitative genetic and to forensic science. Read more about this news from the School of Public Health. Public Health Genetics Over the past decade, dramatic advances in genomics have paved the way for a fuller understanding of the impact of genetic and environmental factors on human and population health. Such capabilities must however, be put into scientific, ethical, cultural, legal and policy context in order to realize the goal of improving population health. Through its research and training programs the Institute for Public Health Genetics (IPHG) provides the context for these discoveries and also equips graduates to tackle the complex ethical, legal, policy and social issues that are required to fully realize the benefits of these advances on population health. Our faculty and graduates are working locally, nationally and globally to ensure that health benefits from genomic knowledge are maximized and harms are minimized. Public Health Genetics Faculty Over 50 faculty represent seven schools and colleges at the University of Washington plus three partner institutions in Seattle. Graduate Programs Over the past 15 years, the IPHG faculty has established a vital and highly regarded graduate training program that remains the only one of its kind. We offer four unique interdisciplinary graduate degrees: Ph.D. and MPH in Public Health Genetics (PHG),and an MS in Genetic Epidemiology, in PHG. Students enrolled in other UW graduate programs can earn a Graduate Certificate in PHG. Each of these programs has served as the standard in integrating scientific advancements with a broader interdisciplinary dialogue. All IPHG degree programs emphasize an interdisciplinary approach to using genomic advances to improve population health. Graduates of the program will have a unique set of skills that qualifies them for a range of career options, including employment in academia, government, industry, and not-for-profit organizations. To find out more or apply to our programs please browse our website or contact us for more information phgadmit@uw.edu. Announcements Questions about the program? Contact us: phgadmit@uw.edu. Please contact the graduate program if you are interested in our Graduate Certificate Support the Institute for Public Health Genetics. Donate now! University of Washington Be boundless Connect with the UW: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA