Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Institutional Research Toggle navigation Site Menu Home Facts Students Faculty Surveys Indicators Metrics Research Resources Staff Infographics First Generation Undergraduate Students at FSU November 2021 This Power BI visualization centers around first-generation students. This visualization includes: majors, departments, colleges, age, counties, and states. The viz also displays a race/ethnicity breakdown of first-generation and continuing generation students. 2021 INFOGRAPHIC 2020 INFOGRAPHIC American Indian/Alaskan Native Students at FSU November 2021 This Power BI visualization highlights students who identify as American Indian and Alaskan Native in Fall terms 2016 to 2020, in recognition of American Indian and Alaskan Native Heritage Month. The visual includes demographics, departments, degree level sought, county, state, country of citizenship, and further description of students full race/ethnicity identity. Transfer Students at FSU October 2021 This Power BI visualization recognizes transfer students in Fall 2021 as part of national transfer student week. This visualization includes race/ethnicity, gender, majors, departments, colleges, age, and county of origin within Florida. Asian American and Pacific Islander Students at FSU May 2021 This Power BI visualization was developed in recognition of Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) Month. This visualization focuses on Fall 2020 AAPI students and includes demographic, academic, and geographic factors. Data Models ACE Tutoring Dashboard and Presentation This Power BI dashboard and PowerPoint were presented to FSU’s Academic Center for Excellence (ACE). The materials show course grade outcomes based on engagement in ACE’s tutoring services (Learning Studio or ALS, Math Studio, and Group Tutoring). Students who were tutored in Fall and Spring terms in 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019 were compared to non-tutored peers enrolled in the same courses and terms. This study used descriptive statistics, linear regression, logistic regression, and nearest neighbor matching to help inform ACE of course grade outcomes of the services they provide. FSU login required. OPEN DASHBOARD DOWNLOAD PDF DFW x Enrollment Dashboard This Power BI visualization shows the average enrollment and average DFW, DF, and DW rates over Fall, Spring, and Summer semesters beginning in Fall 2016 and ending in Fall 2020. The visualization includes Top 10 and Top 25 ranked by [average enrollment] x [average DFW, DF, or DW, percent] and a time lapse to display how course positions change through Fall and Spring terms. FSU login required. FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY | 318 WESTCOTT BUILDING | TALLAHASSEE, FL 32306-1359 | EMAIL © FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY | PRIVACY POLICY