Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Facts and Figures Temple At a Glance Fact Book External Reporting Placement Assessments English Placement Assessment Foreign Language Placement Assessment Math Placement Assessment Placement Assessment Committee Student Feedback Forms Information for Students Information for Instructors Frequently Asked Questions Administrative Information Surveys at Temple Administering Surveys Survey Data New Student Questionnaire (NSQ) Temple University Student Questionnaire (TUSQ) National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE) Graduate Student Survey (GSS) Assessment of Student Learning Student Learning Outcomes Statements Assessment Plans Assessment Resources Current Assessment Activities Evidence of Student Learning Use of Student Learning Evidence Data Governance Data Integrity Resources About Contact Us Staff Directory Temple University Test Center TUportal Institutional Research and Assessment Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Facts and Figures You are here Home Facts and Figures Facts and Figures Temple At a Glance Fact Book External Reporting Placement Assessments English Placement Assessment Foreign Language Placement Assessment Math Placement Assessment Placement Assessment Committee Student Feedback Forms Information for Students Information for Instructors Frequently Asked Questions Administrative Information Surveys at Temple Administering Surveys Survey Data New Student Questionnaire (NSQ) Temple University Student Questionnaire (TUSQ) National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE) Graduate Student Survey (GSS) Assessment of Student Learning Student Learning Outcomes Statements Assessment Plans Assessment Resources Current Assessment Activities Evidence of Student Learning Use of Student Learning Evidence Data Governance Data Integrity Resources About Contact Us Staff Directory Facts and Figures The Data Analysis and Reporting (DAR) unit of Institutional Research and Assessment supports campus leaders and policy makers with strategic planning, and fiscal decisions by providing key analytics and reporting. In addition to internal decision support, DAR also provides institutional information for governmental and external surveys, as well as other external agencies as appropriate. As a state related instrumentality of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Temple University must comply with a wide range of state and federal reporting requirements. /facts-and-figures/fact-book Fact Book and Temple At a Glance Compendium of selected facts and frequently requested information about the University including students, faculty, degree programs, finances, research, computing, libraries and institutional advancement. Fact Book and Temple At a Glance /facts-and-figures/compliance-reports External Reporting Common Data Set, IPEDS Submissions, Middlestates Accreditation, Joint State Reporting /facts-and-figures/compliance-reports External Reporting Catalog of Institutional Reports IRA is responsible for maintaining and reporting on a variety of data across the university. In addition to the externally facing reports generated such as the Factbook, IRA supports the internal Temple community with numerous reports based on data stored in the university’s central data warehouse. The repository for these reports is provided behind the firewall, in The Catalog of Institutional Reports. Subject to approval, Temple employees may request access here. The following reports are available to Temple staff, administration and faculty (where authorized): Enrollment Reports – Tracking and Census Undergraduate Admissions Summary Report – Tracking and Census Longitudinal Yield Report - Census Admissions Profile- Census Graduate Admissions Summary Report– Tracking and Census Campus Enrollment Report - Census Credit Hour Report - Census Academic Quality Indicator Report - Census Degrees Awarded Report - Census Historic Common Data Sets Freshmen Holdover Report Graduation and Retention Report Access Catalog of Institutional Reports Access Catalog of Institutional Reports (Microsoft Teams) Request Access to Catalog of Institutional Reports Requests for Data, Analytics and Reporting Internal Requests for for Data, Analytics and Reporting The Office of Institutional Research and Assessment provides accurate and actionable information and analysis to university decision-makers, the Temple community, and external stakeholders. This information is used for assessment, planning, policy formulation and mandated reporting. IRA is committed to fostering a culture of continuous improvement that advances the university's mission. Key data and information are available on the Facts and Figures website. In addition to the externally facing reports generated such as the Factbook, IRA supports the internal Temple community with numerous reports, listed here, based on data stored in the university’s central data warehouse. The repository for these reports is provided behind the firewall, in The Catalog of Institutional Reports. Subject to approval, Temple employees may request access using the access request form in TUHelp here. If you are unable to find the information you seek from currently available resources, please submit a TUHelp Request for Data here. Once you submit your request, an IRA staff member will contact you within three business days with a status update and/or if feasible, an ETA. External Inquires Individuals outside the Temple community are encouraged to explore Temple’s publicly facing Facts and Figures resources here for their data needs. If you have a media request, visit the Temple University Communications site, or call 215-204-8561. If you are unable to find the information you seek from currently available resources, Submit a request for information. Once you submit your request, an IRA staff member will contact you within three business days with a status update and/or if feasible, an ETA. Go Back HomeMore in Facts and Figures Temple At a Glance Fact Book External Reporting Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Institutional Research and Assessment 1200 Carnell Hall 1803 N Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-8611 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Academic Affairs, Assessment and Institutional Research Test Center Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.