irmed@pennmedicine.upenn.edu What Is Regenerative Medicine? Join the IRM Toggle menu Home About About the IRM Ralph L. Brinster Symposium & Elaine Redding Brinster Prize Annual Report What is Regenerative Medicine? Join the IRM Contact Us People Leadership Faculty Staff Research Our Research Research Programs Epithelial Stem Cells Hematopoietic Stem Cells Musculoskeletal Regeneration Neurodevelopment & Regeneration Reproductive Medicine Outreach Outreach Programs Volunteer Opportunities Broader Impact Assistance News Events Give Institute for Regenerative Medicine Find Out More Our mission is to understand how cells and tissues are formed and to apply that knowledge to next generation diagnostics and therapies Find Out More Home Upcoming Events Recent News May 11, 2022 Frozen testicular tissue still viable after 20 years The rate of survival for childhood cancers has increased dramatically in the last several decades, but a serious side effect of treatment is diminished fertility later in life. A potential treatment for boys facing cancer treatment would be to harvest, freeze, and, after the cancer is cured, reimplant their testicular tissue, which contains stem cells … Continue reading Frozen testicular tissue still viable after 20 years April 18, 2022 Kate Hamilton wins American Physiological Society GI/Liver New Investigator Award Kathryn (Kate) Hamilton, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Co-Director of the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia’s Gastrointestinal Epithelium Modeling Program, has been awarded the 2022 Gastrointestinal & Liver Physiology Section New Investigator Award by the American Physiological Society (APS)! She accepted the award at this month’s Experimental Biology Annual Meeting in Philadelphia. Kate’s team studies the … Continue reading Kate Hamilton wins American Physiological Society GI/Liver New Investigator Award March 21, 2022 Piezo1 Possible Key to Supporting Muscle Regeneration in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy One protein, Piezo1, is key to marshalling muscle stem cells’ unique shapes and response to injuries, but it is in low supply in those with Duchenne muscular dystrophy, according to a team at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. However, when they re-activated Piezo1, it allowed muscle stem cells in mice … Continue reading Piezo1 Possible Key to Supporting Muscle Regeneration in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy Working to find cellular cures for diseases. The IRM supports initiatives to translate discoveries in stem cell science into new therapies. We offer: Collaborative Research Programs Grants for Innovative Ideas Engaging Symposiums & Events Training Workshops Award-winning Outreach Partnerships Scientific Communication Support Research Programs Epithelial Stem Cells The cells that constitute our skin and line our organs are the first line of defense against injury and illness. These vital barriers are replenished by epithelial stem cells. IRM researchers study epithelial stem cells throughout the body to find ways to improve wound healing, heal the lungs after viral infection, reverse baldness, and more. … Continue reading Epithelial Stem Cells Hematopoietic Stem Cells Humans produce hundreds of billions of blood cells every day, thanks to the incredible regenerative potential of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). To create all those oxygen-carrying red blood cells and pathogen-fighting white blood cells, HSCs follow very specific development pathways. IRM researchers are exploring how to control these pathways and use HSCs to treat disease. … Continue reading Hematopoietic Stem Cells Musculoskeletal Regeneration Muscles, bones, and cartilage are critical to our quality of life, so maintaining musculoskeletal health from childhood to old age is incredibly important. However, injuries, aging, and disease can all undermine musculoskeletal health. IRM scientists and engineers are studying innovative ways to repair degraded tissues and are working toward solutions for muscular dystrophy, osteoarthritis, and … Continue reading Musculoskeletal Regeneration Neurodevelopment & Regeneration The nervous system’s capacity for growth and change underlies everything from proper mental development to the body’s coordination and movement. IRM researchers study how neurons develop in different stages of life, why the neurons in limbs regenerate better than in the brain, and how dysregulation leads to diseases including autism spectrum disorder, schizophrenia, and glioblastoma. … Continue reading Neurodevelopment & Regeneration Reproductive Medicine The cells of the reproductive system give rise to all other cells in the body. IRM researchers seek to understand the regenerative qualities of sperm and eggs and the biology of early embryos, with the goals of improving the storage of germ cells and embryos for cancer patients and creating safe, effective assisted reproductive technologies. … Continue reading Reproductive Medicine Outreach Sharing our science across the Philadelphia region and beyond. Learn More The Institute for Regenerative Medicine is a community of experts working to create a future where diseases are cured with cellular solutions Recent News May 11, 2022Frozen testicular tissue still viable after 20 years April 18, 2022Kate Hamilton wins American Physiological Society GI/Liver New Investigator Award Useful Links Penn Home Research Programs Contact Us Calendar Penn iPSC Core Connect University of Pennsylvania 3400 Civic Center Boulevard, Philadelphia, PA 19104 irmed@pennmedicine.upenn.edu Follow @IRM_UPenn Copyright © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania. All Rights Reserved. | admin login site by Pendari