Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Academic Technology Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Academic Technology enriches our academic ecosystem and supports the student experience Academic Technology's mission is to enrich OSU's academic ecosystem, enable innovative pedagogy and information sharing through effective use of technology, and enhance the student experience. We attain our mission through: Leadership in understanding and applying instructional and communication technology trends and innovations Investing in products and services that align and integrate with the goals and needs of OSU students and faculty Maximizing the University's investments through user support, training and resource maintenance Guiding Principles of Academic Technology Guiding Principles of Academic Technology › Our Departments Classroom Technology Services Classroom Technology Services provides instructional and presentation technology for classrooms, labs, and seminar and conference spaces. Learning Platform Services Learning Platform Services administers Canvas, the learning management system at Oregon State University, and its associated products, including Kaltura, GradeScope, TurnItIn, and many other integrated tools. [email protected] is your destination for information on how to access and use the learning tools at Oregon State. Media Services Produces media and instructional products for media networks, web applications, and television. Staff also support videoconferencing, broadcasting and streaming infrastructure. Technical Services Technical Services provides audio/video engineering support and consultation, design and installation of innovative media solutions for learning and collaboration spaces and event facilities. Services Services Academic Technology provides the following services. Audio-Video Integration Audio and Video Tools Broadcast Engineering Tools and training Media Production Equipment and facilities Multimedia Event Support Video and audio Student Multimedia Service Consulting and presentations Video Conferencing Installation and videoconferencing Academic Technology Consultation Education and technology. Citrix Apps Remote computers and apps Computer Classrooms Computers and education Faculty Media Center Consulting, media creation. [email protected] Grading and Canvas Learning Space and Technology Design Learning Space and Technology Design Presentation Support Audio and video Academic Technology Guiding Principles of Academic Technology Academic Technology Blog Academic Technology Blog Academic Technology Blog Feed Meet Ally, a new accessibility tool in Canvas - Mar 21, 2022 A new accessibility platform called Ally is now available in all Canvas course sites with tools for faculty and students. Faculty and students who want to explore Ally may do so starting Spring 2022. We’ll gather your feedback, questions and suggestions to prepare training and support resources to be ready for the official launch of Ally in Fall 2022. FMC Student Perspective: Ryan Ferry - Mar 21, 2022 FMC Student Perspective: Ryan Ferry By: Ryan Ferry “Media has so many possibilities to expand upon the knowledge learned in class and highlight interesting points/examples that students would fail to remember if only mentioned in a fleeting moment in a lecture.” Ryan, FMC student employee and senior Finance major at OSU, shares his insights, preferences, […] FMC Update: Spring 2022 - Mar 21, 2022 Learn about the Academic Technologies Equipment Checkout service. Media Services: Broadcasting Around The World From LInC - Feb 10, 2022 Waiting for me every morning in my email inbox is OSU Today, a daily email collecting bits and bobs about OSU - events, opportunities, and my favorite, Today in the News Media. It shouldn’t come as a surprise that our faculty are often featured across the news media, either to tell the story of their work, or to use their background and expertise to help explain a subject through the media. Student Multimedia Services: Who We Are - Dec 30, 2021 When I walked into SMS it was clear to me that the space had been undersold by the professor. I had been told about the equipment check-out, but the scope of SMS was much broader than that. Contact Us Academic Technology Learning Innovation Center (LINC) 165 SW Sackett Place, 466 LINC Corvallis, OR 97331 Send Email Hours of Operation: Monday - Friday: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer