Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Duo Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search How it Works Additional Security Direct Deposit Help and FAQs Duo for Students Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift How it Works Additional Security Direct Deposit Help and FAQs Duo for Students Two-step login to protect your OSU account. Sign up for Duo Help! I can't login Manage Duo Devices Login to manage your Duo-enabled device or hardware token. Manage your Duo devices Device Reactivation Get a new phone? Use this service to reactivate Duo. Reactivate your phone Temporary Duo Code Generate a temporary Duo code in advance for use in situations where you may not have access to your Duo device or token, such as a proctored exam, or before you run out of phone battery. Generate a temporary code Duo Mobile for iOS devices Download from the App Store Duo Mobile for Android devices Download from the Google Play Store Duo Hardware Tokens Purchase from the OSU Beaver Store 400% Increase in OSU accounts compromised compared to previous three years. Protect your account by using Duo. Sign up for Duo Who is it for? Duo is now available to anyone with an OSU Login. Why should I use it? Strong passwords are essential, but they aren't enough. Phishing attacks and data breaches put your account at risk. Duo provides extra security for your OSU Account with two-step login. Two-step Login With two-step login, anyone trying to access your account must provide two forms of ID: Something you know, such as your password. Something you have, such as a passcode, a phone, or even a mobile app. Some services and websites refer to this as two-step authentication, two-step verification, multifactor authentication, or login verification. The difference between the "normal" OSU login screen and the two-step login screen is shown here. How it Works Additional Security Help and FAQs Duo for Students How it Works › Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer