Updating... Skip to main content Filter your search by category. Current category: All All Knowledge Base Service Catalog Search Sign In Show Applications Menu Client Portal Sign In Search Get Help Home Services Knowledge Base More Applications Get Help from the Service Desk Contact Information: Phone: 541-737-8787 Online: Submit a Help Request In Person: Milne Computer Center - by appointment or drop-in Hours of Operation: Fall/Winter/Spring Term Hours: Mon-Fri 8am-7pm (no walk-in 5pm-7pm) Weekends 3pm-7pm (remote support only, no walk-in) Break and Summer Hours: Mon-Fri 8am-5pm, Weekends closed Holidays and Closure days: We are closed when the Corvallis campus is closed and are closed for holiday weekends. (For the Thanksgiving break, the Service Desk will be closed Thursday-Friday, open on Saturday-Sunday.) Finals Weeks: We close at 5:00pm on the Fridays of Finals weeks Quick link to this page: https://beav.es/help Map and Parking Information: Milne Computer Center is located on Campus Way. Visitors may request a parking pass from Milne 201 to park in a reserved customer spot to the East of the building. For more parking information, see https://transportation.oregonstate.edu/parking. What is a Service Desk? OSU Acceptable Use of Computing Resources Additional Resources Oregon State University Homepage HR Service Center Office of the Registrar Ecampus PACE Other OSU IT Helpdesks Submit Help Request View My Requests Knowledgebase Is there an outage? Popular Articles ONID - I changed my ONID password, what devices do I need to update after that change? ONID - How to Change Your Password ONID - Login Help Google Drive - How to Export Google Doc to PDF CN - Mac - Allow ConnectWise Remote Access on a Mac Exchange - "Send as" Versus "Send on Behalf of" Zoom - Headset Problems Joining Meeting via Web ONID - Account Activation Instructions Veterinary Radiographic Anatomy application - Retired as of December 22, 2021 Install Visio 2019 or Project 2019 with Office 365 Popular Services CN - Request computer / technology equipment purchase OSU Login Local Computer Administrator Access Request CN/Cosine - New Sponsored Account Contact Enterprise Web Services Telecom - Other Software - Adobe Creative Cloud License Request Citrix Apps New Employee Account Setup Telephone and Voice Services Oregon State University