Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » [email protected] Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Service Catalog » Learning Technologies [email protected] Grading and Canvas Web-based platform with the learning management system (Canvas) providing the foundation for a suite of tools that instructors may use to post many types of course material. assignments, and manage student grades. Students may submit assignments and communicate with instructors. Activities in the form of integrated services include online video platform (Kaltura); audience response system (Turning); plagiairism prevention (Turnitin); publisher integrations; accessibility tools (UDOIT; TextAid; ReadSpeaker) and lecture capture. Employee training may be delivered in Bridge, which is a learning platform not integrated with Canvas.Login to Canvas More Requests Service Details Additional information about [email protected], including pricing, security requirements and training documentation. Charges & Fees The cost or pricing structure to use this service. There is no cost to use Canvas. Other digital materials assigned may carry a cost. Security Rating The classification of data that can be stored or transmitted by this service. Sensitive Training What training is available for this service. Canvas training is available here: http://learn.oregonstate.edu/canvas Audience Some services are only available to specific groups of people at OSU. These groups include students, employees, departments and associated groups. Availability This service is available to the following groups. Available for all students Available for some employees Available for some departments Available for some associated groups Access Restrictions If the service is only available to some members of a population, those restrictions are listed below. ONID and Banner account, as well as registration in credit courses. Related Services More services from the Learning Technologies category. Academic Technology Consultation Education and technology. Bridge (training.oregonstate.edu), Training Management System Bridge is a training management system that was implemented at OSU in 2018. Bridge is used for Critical Training, as well as other types of training at OSU. Bridge can deliver self-paced online training, and can also be used to track attendance in instructor-led classes. Canvas Canvas learning platform Citrix Apps Remote computers and apps Clickers, Classroom Response System Audience response system Computer Classrooms Computers and education Related Pages Additional resources related to [email protected]. Canvas Service Clickers Service Kaltura Service Streaming Support Form Webform Support If you require assistance with [email protected], use any of the methods below to request support. Submit a Help Ticket Visit Milne 201 Call 541-737-8787 Get Support Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer