Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Zoom Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Teaching Training and Support Getting Started Knowledge Base FAQs Passcode Requirement Learning Teach/Learn/Work Recording Lectures Audio Conferencing Working Webinar Licenses Room Systems Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Teaching Training and Support Getting Started Knowledge Base FAQs Passcode Requirement Learning Teach/Learn/Work Recording Lectures Audio Conferencing Working Webinar Licenses Room Systems Getting Started To use Zoom, you’ll need to install an app on your computer or mobile device and login via SSO using your OSU Login. We recommend doing this before you host or join your first meeting. Quick Links: Install Zoom and Sign-in via SSO on Your Computer Install Zoom and Sign-in via SSO on a Mobile Device Access Zoom from a Web Browser Using Zoom Install Zoom on Your Computer and Sign-in Via SSO Download the app at https://zoom.us/support/download. After installing the app, you will see a sign-in window. Click Sign in with SSO. When prompted for a domain, type: oregonstate The OSU login will display. Enter your OSU login information and click login. Complete DUO authentication if required. If you have already authenticated through the OSU login, you will bypass this step. zoom_signin_desktopapp.png zoom_signin_domainorangetext_desktopapp.png zoom_osulogin.png Getting Started - Desktop (zoom.us): Getting Started on PC and Mac How to Use Zoom’s Desktop App (v 4.3) System Requirements for PC, Mac, and Linux Linux Installation Getting Started On Chrome OS Zoom Web Client Install Zoom on a Mobile Device and Sign-in Via SSO Install the app at one of these links: iOS (itunes.apple.com) | Android (play.google.com) Tap Sign In. Tap the SSO option. When prompted to enter your company domain, enter: oregonstate A browser window will open to the OSU login page. Enter your OSU login information and click login. Complete DUO authentication if required. IOS screenshots: zoom_ios_signin.png zoom_ios_sso.png zoom_ios_domain.png zoom_ios_osulogin.png Getting Started - Mobile (zoom.us): System Requirements for iOS and Android Getting Started with iOS Getting Started with Android Getting Started with BlackBerry Access Zoom from a Web Browser You need to install the app as described above to join or host a meeting. If you’re scheduling a meeting or changing your account preferences, you can do so from any web browser. Visit zoom.oregonstate.edu and click Log In. Log in with your OSU Login. Using Zoom Buttons in the Zoom app will allow you to easily start, schedule, or join meetings. zoomdesktopclient.png Recommend articles: Frequently Asked Questions Scheduling and Joining Meetings: Articles from Zoom (zoom.us) Use the Zoom Plugin to Schedule Meetings (zoom.us) Zoom Web Conferencing FAQ (zoom.us) Use the Zoom Scheduler Plugin in Chrome and Firefox (zoom.us) Zoom and Google Calendar (zoom.us) Recording a Zoom Meeting (zoom.us) ‹ Training and Support up Knowledge Base › Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer