Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Zoom Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Teaching Training and Support Getting Started Knowledge Base FAQs Passcode Requirement Learning Teach/Learn/Work Recording Lectures Audio Conferencing Working Webinar Licenses Room Systems Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Teaching Training and Support Getting Started Knowledge Base FAQs Passcode Requirement Learning Teach/Learn/Work Recording Lectures Audio Conferencing Working Webinar Licenses Room Systems Teaching Facilitate teaching and learning Use Zoom for virtual classrooms, online learning, group discussions and more. Ways of Leveraging Zoom for Teaching & Learning Online Office Hours - You can use Zoom to hold one-on-one or group meetings with your students. Zoom allows you to share your screen so you can discuss course materials, grades, and assignments. Online Classroom - You can hold a lecture or interactive class entirely online with Zoom. There is also the ability to leverage screen sharing to present websites, documents, websites and more. Zoom even allows you to create Breakout Rooms so students can work in smaller groups to answer a question or work on a case study. You can then bring everyone back to the main virtual room to discuss what they worked on. Guest Speakers - Zoom allows you to easily bring in a guest speaker for your course without worrying about the logistics of bringing them to campus. Web conferencing not only allows your students to hear a guest speaker but interact and ask questions as well. Group Projects - Students can use Zoom to conduct group meetings and share content without you being present or having to set up the meeting. Record Lectures in Advance - You can use Zoom to record your lectures and students can view the session in their own time. Getting Started REQUIRED: Create Your Zoom Account Visit is.oregonstate.edu/zoom Click "Log in to Zoom" Complete OSU Single Sign-on/DUO process Once you've successfully signed in, your Zoom account is automatically established REQUIRED: Download and Run the Zoom Client You MUST download the Zoom application to your computer. Visit zoom.us/download Download and Run the "Zoom Client for Meetings" Upon opening the Zoom client, select "Sign in with SSO" Type "oregonstate" for the company domain Click continue and a webpage with the OSU sign-in will appear Sign-in and select "Open zoom.us" from the pop-up window For Advanced Features, Go to Zoom and Edit Global Settings If you're using breakout rooms, polls, or other advanced Zoom features, you'll need to edit your global Zoom settings to configure these functions to your preferences and class meeting needs. Review your Zoom settings: Zoom Default Settings and Recommended Settings for Faculty and Advisors Login to Zoom at your is.oregonstate.edu/zoom to change your settings Update to the Latest Version of Zoom It’s important to check for Zoom updates because functionality is constantly being added and improved. Encourage students to do the same. Using Zoom in the Classroom Getting Started with Zoom in the Classroom Please see Getting Started with Zoom in the Classroom for instructions and a tutorial for a video demonstrating these functions. Using Zoom Video in the Classroom Please see Using Zoom Video in the Classroom for instructions and a tutorial for a video demonstrating these functions. Using Zoom Audio in the Classroom See Using Zoom Audio in the Classroom for instructions and a tutorial for a video demonstrating these functions. Using Zoom Content Sharing in the Classroom See Using Zoom Content Sharing in the Classroom for instructions and a tutorial for a video demonstrating these functions. Using a Classroom Document Camera in Zoom See Using a Classroom Document Camera in Zoom for instructions and a tutorial for a video demonstrating these functions. Schedule a Meeting and Invite Students Set Up Your Zoom Meetings in Canvas Before you begin, you must have Zoom enabled in a Canvas course. Click here to find out how. Click "Zoom" from the left menu Click "Schedule a New Meeting" slide2.png Enter class title/name/number Enter the class start date Enter the class duration If a recurring meeting, enter those parameters slide3.png Enter the Meeting Options per your preference Click "Save" slide4.png Your TAs can also schedule a class meeting on your behalf. Share Your Class Meeting With Students Students will be able to join the meeting by clicking on "Zoom" in the left-hand menu, then clicking the "Join" button next to that day's occurrence of your class meeting. slide6.png Start and Run your Meeting Start your Zoom Meeting Login to Canvas Click "Zoom" in the left-hand menu in your Canvas course Click the "Start" button next to that day's occurrence of your class meeting slide11.png Run Your Zoom Meeting Within a Zoom Meeting, there are a number of controls along the bottom of the screen Click "Join Audio" to connect using your speakers/microphone or a telephone Click "Start Video" to start your video Click "Manage Participants" to see and manage your attendees Click "Screen Share" to share your screen/documents Click "Chat" to engage with your students if they are unable to hear you Click "Record" to record your meeting to the cloud Host and Co-Host Controls in a Meeting: You can find more details in Zoom's support article: https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/201362603-What-Are-the-Host-Controls- How to Use Screen Share Zoom allows for screen sharing on desktop, tablet and mobile devices running Zoom. You can share a screen, websites, Powerpoint presentations, and much more. You can find more details in Zoom's support article: https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/201362153-Sharing-your-screen Leverage Breakout Rooms Breakout rooms allow you to easily place meeting attendees into sub-meetings for group discussion, activities, projects and more. You can find more details in Zoom's support article: https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/206476313-Managing-Breakout-Rooms Using Waiting Rooms for Office Hours Waiting Rooms is a Zoom Meeting feature that can be used to admit attendees into a pre-meeting room so the host can admit and remove people individually to the main Zoom session. You can find more details in this support article: https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/115000332726-Waiting-Room Post-Meeting Locate your Recorded Meeting Once you've conducted your meeting, click "End Meeting" The recording will automatically transfer to your My Media in Canvas, accessible from your course's left-hand menu You will receive an automated email once the recording is ready for you to make available to students Your recordings can be captioned, edited, and published to your Canvas course for your students to view Conduct an Attendance Report Visit zoom.oregonstate.edu and click "Login to Zoom" Click "Reports" from the left menu options Click either "Usage" or "Meeting" Usage - Meetings, participants, meeting minutes Meeting - Registration reports, poll reports Set the From and To date range by clicking the calendar icons Click "Search" From the list of meetings, click the number listed under the Participants column, for the desired meeting A pop-up will appear with the various participant's information. From here you can select the option to Export the data, or simply copy/paste the information. Additional Meeting Report Resources Generate Registration and Polling Reports (zoom.us) Meeting Reports (OSU KnowlegeBase) Teaching Over Video - Delivery Tips and Tricks You can find many of the settings below when you schedule a meeting in Zoom. Pre-set your meeting to mute participant’s upon entry. You can also mute/unmute individual participants or all of them at once. This helps to avoid background noise and allow your students to focus on your lesson. Look at the camera to create eye contact with your students. This helps to create a more personal connection while teaching over video. Disable attendee video by default. This cuts down on bandwidth/internet usage. Consider trying a Waiting Room. It’s a virtual staging area that stops your guests from joining until you’re ready. It does require you to admit every participant, so we encourage arranging a co-host to help facilitate it. Take a second to check chat or your student’s video (if on camera) to check-in with your students and get feedback. Speak as if you’re face-to-face with the class while insuring you’re at the appropriate distance from the microphone for the best audio experience. As a practice, you are strongly encouraged to restrict and/or disable private chat between participants while your event is going on, to cut back on distractions. When delivering a presentation, sharing images, files or video, give your students a moment to open or take in what you’ve shared. Embrace the pause. Take a moment after the end of your comments and allow for students to engage before continuing on. Use the Participants list to remove unwanted or disruptive participants. Manage screen sharing ability. You can restrict this — before the meeting and during the meeting in the host control bar — so that you’re the only one who can screen-share. Recommended Zoom Resources Zoom Web Conferencing FAQ (zoom.us) Comprehensive Guide to Educating Through Zoom (PDF - zoom.us) Zoom for Higher Education (PDF - zoom.us) Tips & Tricks: Teachers Educating on Zoom (PDF - zoom.us) Student Tips for Participating in Online Learning (PDF - zoom.us) How to Keep the Party Crashers from Crashing your Zoom Meeting (Zoom Blog) ‹ Zoom up Training and Support › Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer