Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Academic Technology » Student Multimedia Services Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Faculty & Department Services Multimedia Resources Poster Tips Video Production Resources Field Production Guide Post Production Pre-Production Multimedia Studios Reserve Studio Space Equipment Checkout All Equipment Audio Equipment Classroom Equipment Fees & Information Photo Equipment Presentation and Other Media Request Equipment Video Equipment Printing Fees And Information Media Duplication Non-Student Pricing Order a Print Job Video Production & Resources Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Faculty & Department Services Multimedia Resources Poster Tips Video Production Resources Field Production Guide Post Production Pre-Production Multimedia Studios Reserve Studio Space Equipment Checkout All Equipment Audio Equipment Classroom Equipment Fees & Information Photo Equipment Presentation and Other Media Request Equipment Video Equipment Printing Fees And Information Media Duplication Non-Student Pricing Order a Print Job Video Production & Resources Student Multimedia Services Student Multimedia Services Spring Break Hours of Operation Monday to Friday, 10am to 6pm Welcome to Student Multimedia Services! We are a student-focused multimedia unit available for use by all currently enrolled OSU students. We are a team of creative problem-solvers whose sole mission is to develop innovative multimedia solutions for the OSU community of students. Our primary mission is to provide multimedia facilities, equipment, and technical support for students producing and presenting academic work. We pride ourselves on dynamic customer service and project consulting to support learning with multimedia technologies. Whether that's designing a print, creating a podcast, photography project, or video assignment; SMS is here to help with a variety of resources tailored to fit your needs. Check out our video for a visual guide to the services we provide. Check out our Quick Links! Looking for Equipment? Equipment Reservation Need help with your project? Multimedia Resources Want to speak with an expert? Tell Us About Your Project dot_equipment.png EQUIPMENT RESOURCES Click here to reserve equipment. dot-_print.png PRINTING RESOURCES Click here to request a print. dot_photo_video.png VIDEO PRODUCTION RESOURCES Click here to schedule an event capture. Multimedia Spaces STUDIOS AND SPACES Click here to reserve a space. Consulting MULTIMEDIA RESOURCES Click here for help, and free resources for your next project. faculty_resources.png FACULTY RESOURCES Learn more about services for faculty. SMS hosts Media Pop-in Sessions! Do you have burning questions about your next digital media assignment? Join us for our 30 min crash-course workshops. Available in person at the SMS main office (Valley Library 2035) starting April 4th to the 8th and again April 25th to the 29th In-Person Workshops starting at 1pm, 3pm, and 5pm Monday: SMS Equipment BASICS -- An introduction to the tools we have available for checkout Tuesday: FACE TO FACE INTERVIEWS -- Best Techniques for Video Interviews Wednesday: BASIC DESIGN ELEMENTS -- How take your research poster to the next level Thursday: HOW TO SHOOT VIDEO THAT DOESN'T SUCK -- The name says it all! Friday: VIDEO EDITING DECODED -- A walkthrough of video editing techniques and FAQs More Information Learn more about Video Production with SMS! Register for our free introduction or advanced workshops, where we will talk about every stage in the production of a professional video. Learn more Don't know where to find us? You can find us in the Valley Library, right by the main elevators (and past the large painted cow). Just follow the red arrows to the door with the big red dot. Looking for Media Editing programs? Sms has collected a number of free, online resources to help you edit, enhance, or design your next project. Available as free alternatives to the Adobe Creative Cloud Learn More img_0364.jpg Looking for additional resources? Check out these links! Valley Library Undergrad Research and Writing Center Academic Tutoring Milne Computer Lab Computer Help Desk Faculty & Department Services Multimedia Resources Multimedia Studios Equipment Checkout Printing Video Production & Resources Faculty & Department Services › Contact Us Student Multimedia Services Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 Send Email Phone: 541-737-2840 Hours of Operation: Monday - Thursday: 10am - 9pm Friday: 10am to 6pm Sunday: 3pm to 9pm SPRING BREAK HOURS Monday to Friday: 10am to 6pm Find us in The Valley Library On the main floor, by the elevators. Room 2035 Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer