Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Docusign Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Become a Sender DocuSign at OSU Business Process Reengineering Governance Getting Started Resources Signers Senders Designers Data Dictionary Other Support Contact Us FAQ News Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Become a Sender DocuSign at OSU Business Process Reengineering Governance Getting Started Resources Signers Senders Designers Data Dictionary Other Support Contact Us FAQ News DocuSign eSignature for Oregon State Note: The OSU Digital Signatures and Digital Workflows Policy goes into effect on July 01, 2021. OSU Sign in Non-OSU Sign In Getting Started DocuSign at OSU Resources Development Docusign is an electronic signature system designed to improve the workflow of signing and approving documents in a way that's simple, secure, and fully digital. Documents signed with Docusign are legally enforceable, intended to re-envision conventional paper-based processes. Benefits Completely electronic and paperless signature service. DocuSign makes signature approval workflows faster and allows the redesign of workflows to streamline business processes. You can send documents in a variety of file formats to multiple people and check on the status of signatures. Integrates with third-party applications like Microsoft Office, Google Apps, Box, and many others. Sign documents on any web browser or use the mobile application for iOS, Android, and Windows Mobile. Governance The deployment of any solution that greatly impacts the processes of the University should have an established governance structure for issues that arise during the implementation of the solution. eSignature tools can dramatically impact the mechanisms by which information is collected and/or how necessary documents are signed and processed. To enable the smooth roll-out of the DocuSign eSignature solution, OSU has chosen to establish a governance structure to support both the project goals and to ensure an effective and on-going process for managing the collection of signatures on documents is well conceived and sustainable. Visit this page for a detailed explanation on governance for DocuSign Become a Sender DocuSign at OSU Getting Started Resources Support News Become a Sender › Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer