Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box University Information and Technology » Information Services Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Information Services Building the technology ecosystem at OSU that enables scholarship, learning, and community engagement in an environment where innovation and academic excellence thrive. Help Request Services Knowledge Base System Status Find Services Need to access a service or get help with it? Find it using the search below. Search Box Collaboration and storage Campus Map Location and mapping [email protected] Grading and Canvas myDegrees Courses and planning OSU Events Calendar Planning and promotion OSU Mobile Download and experience Academic Technology Consultation Education and technology. Active Directory Accounts and groups Can't find what you're looking for? View all services or get help. Updates Service Update Class information, campus map, transportation and more with OSU Mobile Security Enable two-step login to protect yourself and your data online with Duo Serving the University Information Services is the central IT organization for OSU. We work to further the mission of the university and serve our students, employees, researchers and partners. How We Learn We provide and maintain anytime, anywhere, innovative spaces and effective & insightful tools. How We Work We maintain a stable environment and enable innovation through modern tools that are accessible and easy to use. How We Operate The University We integrate business systems, enable paperless processes and manage risks to data and infrastructure. How We Facilitate Research We provide tools and services to the research community at OSU that enable scholarship and creativity without barriers. Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer