Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Client Services » Campus Labs Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management COMPUTER cLASSROOMS and virtual computing for the OSU community Please Note: Milne Computer Lab Is Permanently Closed. If you do not have reliable access to a computer, please contact the Service Desk to discuss options. The following is a partial list of open computer labs on campus. Open labs may have reduced services due to Covid. Valley Library Learning Commons Memorial Union - there is a small collection of computers on the ground floor "Lounge" area (room 11), in the southeast corner. Virtual Computer Lab - if you have access to a computer and a good Internet connection, but need special software for your academic work, this may be what you need. Other Campus Labs Services Kidder 28: 34-seat MacOS computer classroom Kidder 33: 29-seat Windows computer classroom Bexell 324: 48-seat Windows computer classroom Withycombe 205: 24-seat Windows computer classroom Strand Ag 363: 29-seat Windows computer classroom Virtual/remote computing Virtual Campus Labs - This will provide the best experience for remote access) Virtual Application Server apps.oregonstate.edu - Simple remote access to applications How to book a computer classroom: The OSU Schedule Desk schedules the computer classrooms. To schedule your class in one of these rooms, contact whomever does the scheduling for your college. Special Requirements We may be able to accommodate special requests for our computer classrooms. To request installation of licensed software please use this form: Software Installation Request Form For all other requests, please contact the IS Service Desk. Campus Labs Where Can I Use a Computer? Where To Store Your Files Contact IS Campus Labs Configuration of Computer Labs and Classrooms (Academic Year 2021-2022) Staff Directory Contact Us Campus Labs Send Email Phone: 541-737-8787 Hours of Operation: During Spring 2020 and breaks, the Milne Computer Lab hours are: Mon-Fri 8am-5pm You can have your OSU ID card activated to work in Milne Lab 8am to midnight, 7 days per week. Please see this page for more information. Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer