Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Campus Map Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Service Catalog » Communication & Collaboration Campus Map Location and mapping The interactive campus map is a mobile-friendly webpage depicting campus and nearby locations of interest.Access the Campus Map Service Details Additional information about Campus Map, including pricing, security requirements and training documentation. Charges & Fees The cost or pricing structure to use this service. There is no cost to use the campus map. Security Rating The classification of data that can be stored or transmitted by this service. Unrestricted Training What training is available for this service. No formal training is necessary. Audience Some services are only available to specific groups of people at OSU. These groups include students, employees, departments and associated groups. Availability This service is available to the following groups. Available for all students Available for all employees Available for all departments Available for all associated groups Access Restrictions If the service is only available to some members of a population, those restrictions are listed below. None. Related Services More services from the Communication & Collaboration category. Audio-Video Integration Audio and Video Tools BeaverPrint Forwarding and printing Box Collaboration and storage Broadcast Engineering Tools and training DX for Students Digital Experience for students Email & Calendar Email and calendar Get Support Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer