Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Office of the Vice Provost » Project Management Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Projects Active Projects Collapse/Expand All Items Status Project Last Reported Yellow IT Positions Review for Remote, Hybrid, and On-site Work 07/06/2021 Status Summary Completed the project charter Identified co-project leads (one from OSU IT, one from UHR) In process: Recruiting project team members Schedule project team kick-off meeting Project Overview On Hold Departmental Mail Services Migration to Exchange Online 05/05/2021 Status Summary The project is currently working towards migrating departmental mail services to Exchange Online. Faculty and staff email has been successfully migrated from Exchange On-Prem to Exchange Online. Next step to bring this project off hold: Project resources have been shifted off this project to address high-priority items. Resumption of this project requires resource availability, followed by establishing and communicating a required timeline for departmental mail service migrations. Project Overview Green GenderMag Systematizing 05/10/2021 Status Summary Completed the project charter and RACI chart Trained 35 OSU IT employees across 17 OSU IT depts/units to-date Identified 4 volunteer GenderMag trainers to-date Built an interactive "community of practice" team channel for all current GenderMag graduates In process: Building a GenderMag web presence for promotion (part of a forthcoming IT Organizational Development (OD) web presence) Building a registration system (using Ideal-Logic) for making GenderMag trainings available for anyone at OSU In discussions with our Procurement Office to build in an inclusivity check/assessment into the RFP process for IT systems Building a path that promotes and integrates the GenderMag method into our IT practice and processes Project Overview Green IT Workforce Plan 05/10/2021 Status Summary Revised and expanded our project scope since the OSU IT winter 2021 plenary (see charter) Identified a set of data points, covering classification & compensation, demographics, location, education, and other points to help inform the current state. The project team is developing a plan to pull this data. Met with Michelle Lewis to discuss coordination plans for gathering skills & competency data for both the Portfolio Management Office (PMO) and the IT Workforce Plan. This coordination is done to ensure no duplication in effort. The PMO needs to understand what skills & competencies our IT workforce has... so we can figure out how to align staff experience with our project/portfolio needs per the IT Roadmap. The IT Workforce Planning Project Team needs to understand what skills & competencies our IT workforce has... so we can assess against the future state of our workforce and identify areas of professional development for our workforce at-large. Project Overview Green Oracle Cloud Migration 08/04/2021 Status Summary Vendors have been engaged for network design/buildout and for project management and system migration assistance. An initial network design has been presented, and roles and resource responsibilities proposed for managing cloud services. Project Overview Green Performance Management Pilot 05/10/2021 Status Summary The project team has initiated an informal RFP process to obtain an IT solution for the redesigned performance management process. A vendor has been selected and we are moving forward with contract negotiation. The pilot is expected to be launched in summer of 2021 for professional faculty and classified employees in OSU IT and Controller Units. Project Overview On Hold Pronoun Project 05/10/2021 Status Summary Due to other higher priority issues and resource issues, this project is being put on hold temporarily Scope question being finalized. (Question is about Banner, which is currently out of scope for Phase 1, but will be Phase 2). Project web page under development. MyOregonState form under development. IAM tables for data storage under development. API under development. Milestone dates being nailed down Project Overview Are you managing an IT project? Start Here Resources for IT Project Managers Project Terminology Resources for Project Managers Recommended Activities by Project Size Project Terminology Starting IT Projects Archived Projects Resources for Project Managers › Project Management Resources for Project Managers Recommended Activities by Project Size Project Terminology Starting IT Projects Archived Projects Contact Us Send Email Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer