Updating... Skip to main content Filter your search by category. Current category: All All Knowledge Base Service Catalog Search Sign In Show Applications Menu Client Portal Sign In Search Get Help Home Services Knowledge Base More Applications Skip to Knowledge Base content Search Articles Knowledge Base Communication & Collaboration Zoom  Zoom Articles (65) Pinned Article Known Issue: Zoom - User Cannot Edit Display Name Display names cannot be updated in OSU Zoom account profile settings. This information is populated automatically through SSO. Display names can be changed on a per-meeting basis. Pinned Article September 10, 2020 - Passcode Requirement for ALL Zoom Meetings Starting September 10, 2020 - Alll Zoom meetings will require a Passcode to ensure safer, more secure meetings. Pinned Article Zoom - Account Types and Eligibility Pinned Article Zoom - How to Sign-In to OSU Zoom Desktop App Pinned Article Zoom - Live Transcription (Automatic Closed Captioning) Zoom now has automatic Live Transcription (closed captioning) available in English. Once enabled, this automatically adds text to the bottom of the video with what the host and others are saying. Users must enable the "This must be manually enabled on the host's Zoom account within their settings on the Zoom website. This article will review how to enable the automatic live transcription (closed captioning) settings and how to leverage them within a meeting. Pinned Article Zoom - Troubleshooting Meeting Quality Issues This article is intended to help Zoom users who are experiencing meeting quality issues. We've provided tips for ensuring a high-quality meeting, along with tips on how to troubleshoot a meeting that is experiencing issues. Pinned Article Zoom - Update the Desktop Application This article covers the steps for checking for updates in the Zoom desktop application. Pinned Article Zoom: Using Zoom in Canvas Canvas: Creating Zoom Polls Canvas: Generating Zoom Meeting and Poll Reports Guide: Captioning Options for Live Meetings Known Issue: Multiple short recordings for my Zoom meeting Microphone Not Working in Zoom or Teams Problem: Meeting Owner Cannot Have Concurrent Meetings in Zoom Zoom does not allow users to own two or more meetings that occur at the same time. This situation might occur when a user schedules multiple meetings, some of which take place in the same or overlapping time slots. Zoom - Access Denied Zoom - Add & Share Pronouns to Zoom Display Name With the Pronouns feature, you can add your pronouns directly to your user profile to display within Zoom meetings. Zoom - Add Dial-In Telephone Option to a Running/Started OR Scheduled Zoom Meeting This KB includes steps on how to configure a scheduled OR started/running Zoom Meeting to include a telephone dial-in number and code for participants to call into the meeting. Zoom - Add International Dial-In Phone Numbers Schedule a Zoom meeting with international dial-in phone numbers. Zoom - Audio Input Issue (Windows) Zoom - Audio Only Conference Call/Meeting This KB includes information on the two methods of scheduling and using Zoom for audio-only conferencing. Zoom - Change/Use Host Key (Join Before Host) This KB includes steps on finding your Host Key as well as how to edit your Host Key. Zoom - Changing Recording Layout Zoom - Check Out a USB Webcam and Microphone for Web Conferencing Zoom - Cisco/Polycom Room System - Enhanced User Experience VS. Standard User Experience Zoom - Cisco/Polycom Room System with a Zoom Meeting - Enhanced Process Enhanced User Experience for Cisco/Polycom with Zoom. Zoom - Cisco/Polycom Room System with a Zoom Meeting - Standard Process Standard User Experience for Cisco/Polycom with Zoom. Zoom - Configure Exchange or Google Calendar Integration Setting This KB includes steps on configuring the Exchange or Google Calendar Integration with Zoom. This allows meeting to appear in your Desktop Client "Meetings" and/or Upcoming Meetings view. Zoom - Disable "UNMUTE" Microphone for Participants / Allows for Listening with Chat Functionality This KB article includes steps on turning on the Zoom Meeting settings "Mute Participants On Entry" and "Allow Participants To Unmute Themselves" Zoom - Disable "Your meeting attendees are waiting!" Email Notification Zoom - Disable In-Meeting Private Chat This Knowledge Base article covers disabling private chat on either your Zoom account or within individual meetings. Zoom - Disable Meeting Chat Auto-Save Zoom - Disable Participant Annotation This KB article includes directions on how to disable participant annotation. This can be done for all of your Zoom meetings or on a meeting-by-meeting basis. Zoom - Downloads Center (Desktop Client, Outlook Plugin, Browser Extensions, Mobile Apps) This KB includes information on where to download the latest Zoom client, plugins, apps, and browser extensions/add-ons directly from Zoom. Zoom - Edit a Live Meeting to Enable Option for BOTH "Telephone" and "Computer Audio" Edit a LIVE Zoom Meeting to enable BOTH "Telephone" AND "Computer Audio" options. Zoom - Email from Homeland Security Zoom - Enable "HD Video" Setting for Zoom Desktop Application Zoom - Headset Problems Joining Meeting via Web Zoom - How to Setup Virtual Office Hours using Zoom This KB includes two different methods of setting up office hours using Zoom. One is leveraging the registration process, the other is using the waiting room feature in Zoom. Zoom - How to Sign-In to OSU Zoom Mobile App Zoom - Join a Meeting (Client, Web, Mobile, Telephone) This KB includes steps to joining a Zoom meeting as a participant/attendee using email invite, web browser, desktop client, iOS/Android mobile app, and telephone. Zoom - Locate Zoom Recording This KB includes information on how to locate a Zoom Recording that by default should appear in Media Space. Zoom - Meeting Reports - Attendance Report and Usage Reporting This KB includes information on how to pull reports for meetings and attendance as a Zoom User (member). Zoom - Record a Meeting (Cloud Recording & Local Recording) This KB includes steps on how to record a Zoom Meeting using either "Record to the Cloud" or "Record on this Computer" Zoom - Request Captions using Kaltura This knowledge base article references a Kaltura article for requesting captions on a Zoom recording. Zoom - Reusing Meeting IDs & Configure Audio Meeting for Recurring Use This KB includes information on reusing a Zoom Meeting ID along with details on how long "join" links are active. This KB will also cover scheduling an open-ended Zoom audio meeting for recurring use. This is useful for users who wish to have a dedicated phone number and meeting ID, often used for recurring audio-only conferences (without set dates). Zoom - Room System (Cisco/Polycom or Zoom Room) Exchange (2010) Resource Configuration This KB includes the necessary tasks that must be completed in order to configure Cisco/Polycom rooms to fully function with Zoom. Zoom - Save and Access In-Meeting Chat This article covers manually saving in-meeting chat, changing the default automatic save location, and how to access your saved in-meeting chat. Zoom - Schedule a Meeting (Client, Web, Mobile) This includes steps on scheduling a Zoom Meeting using either the Zoom client, Web, or Mobile. Zoom - Schedule a Meeting using Microsoft Outlook Plug-in This KB includes information on the Zoom Microsoft Outlook Plug in. Included is how to schedule a Outlook Meeting with Zoom, adding Zoom to an existing Outlook event, and information on the Outlook Plug in. Zoom - Schedule a Webinar (Requires License Request Form) This KB includes information on how to obtain a Webinar License and steps to schedule a Webinar. Zoom - Schedule Meeting on others Behalf - Scheduling Privilege This KB includes steps on assigning scheduling privilege as well as steps to scheduling a Zoom meeting for someone else. Zoom - Schedule Meeting with Alternate Host or Leveraging Co-Host This article covers how to leverage both scheduling an alternate host and making someone a co-host within a running Zoom meeting. Zoom - Screen Sharing in Meeting This KB includes steps to sharing your screen/application within a Zoom Meeting. Available on Windows, Mac, iOS and Android. Zoom - Secure a Meeting by Allowing Only Authenticated Users to Join To ensure that only users logged in with the email used to invite them (in this case an oregonstate.edu email) can join, you can set your meeting to only allow authenticated users. Zoom - Security Settings and How They Function Zoom - Stop/Disable Participant's Video This knowledgebase article covers stopping and disabling a participant's video while in a meeting. Zoom - Tips to Improve Zoom Audio & Video on Low Bandwidth Networks If you are in a rural location or know that you have low bandwidth at your location, you can apply some of the following tips to help improve your Zoom experience. Zoom - Use a Meeting similar to a Webinar This article covers some setting changes and pointers for leveraging a Zoom Meeting similar to a Zoom Webinar. Zoom - Use Zoom on Linux Zoom - Use/Customize Personal Meeting ID (PMI) This KB includes information on what a Zoom Personal Meeting ID (PMI) is and how to start or schedule meetings using your PMI ID and/or link. Zoom - Waiting Room Settings These steps will enable the waiting room in Zoom to add security to Zoom Meetings. Zoom and Teams Feature Comparison Chart for 1:1 Advising Appointments Scheduled by Bookings Zoom Web Portal: Generating Zoom Meeting and Poll Reports Zoom Web Portal: How do I set up pre-assigned breakout rooms in Zoom? Zoom, Avaya Soft Phone - Turns Down Sound of Other Applications Improve the background noise of applications during zoom meetings - allowing you to multitask or switch between applications while in a zoom meeting. Search Additional Resources Popular Articles Google Drive - How to Export Google Doc to PDF ONID - Login Help ONID - How to Change Your Password Zoom - Headset Problems Joining Meeting via Web ONID - Account Activation Instructions View All Popular Articles Recent Articles ReadSpeaker: Removed from Canvas on June 14, 2022 Mendeley Does Not Work with Duo Login Box Notes Desktop App Discontinued - June 15, 2022 Email - Valid Messages Going to the Junk Email or Spam Folder OSU Events Calendar - Moderating Events View All Recent Articles Popular Tags Student (226) Employee (200) HowTo (166) KnownIssue (128) zoom (71) Canvas (62) Windows (58) Mac (54) Exchange (51) Gsuite (48) View All Tags Oregon State University