Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Digital Experience Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Directory OSU Mobile Site Owner Policy Web Customer Advisory Group Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Directory OSU Mobile Site Owner Policy Web Customer Advisory Group Digital Experience Let's build a better web, together. Digital Experience (formerly Web and Mobile Services) enables every OSU student, staff, faculty and community member to connect digitally with Oregon State University. Our Offerings Support Activities Initiatives Community Our Offerings At Digital Experience, we look forward to what the future of the digital landscape holds. That's why we build digital experiences with strategic, broad impact that bring OSU straight to our users. my.oregonstate.edu A modern, mobile-first, API-driven dashboard for students, built in-house by Digital Experience. It is the foundational offering for the Digital Experience Initiative and a new kind of digital experience at OSU. Check it out OSU Mobile Students expect a mobile digital experience at OSU. We're working to make sure we get it right. Available for iOS and Android. Check it out Chat @ OSU Chat @ OSU is envsioned as a conversational UI that can call up information from a plurality of OSU systems across campus to deliver personalized information, answer common questions, promote student success and provide assistance navigating institutional processes. Check it out Campus Map A mobile-first, interactive campus map that will get you where you need to go on the Corvallis campus. Check it out OSU Search An intuitive service that connects users to the information they seek across all pages, people and places at Oregon State University. Check it out Events Calendar A simple, wide-ranging calendar of campus community events. Check it out Drupal Codebase Our Drupal codebase allows power users to manage their own Drupal installation, giving them ultimate flexibility over configuration and updates. Check it out OSU Drupal Our flagship web publishing offering that helps promote consistency, quality and ease-of-use for OSU websites. Check it out Wordpress A lightweight, self-service web publishing offering utilized by and available to a students, faculty and staff. Check it out Monsido An all-in-one tool that helps you find and fix issues and errors on your website. Check it out Beav.es Have a ridiculously long website URL that looks like garbage? Want to make it short and lovely? Beav.es will do that for you. Hackathon 3.0 award winner for simplification. Check it out Support Activities If you're a web communicator at OSU, we're here to aid you, offering support, training and community to help you get your job done. Support The Digital Experience team provides campus-wide support for Drupal and WordPress sites — if you have a problem, we can probably help. If you can't come see us in person during Open Lab, submit a ticket via the button below and let us know how we can help. How can we help? Training We offer a variety of training opportunities — from the basics to advanced features — to help you find your way around your Drupal site. Trainings are open to everyone! Training opportunities Open Lab Bring your OSU web project to Open Lab and work with dedicated professionals who are there to help you bring your vision to life. Giddy up! Learn more Advisory and Governance We are passionate about helping our customers and partners achieve their goals. We're in ongoing conversations with a variety of groups to make sure that we're getting it right. Web Customer Advisory Group Events Digital Experience hosts two annual events: the Hackathon, where teams of OSU employees build something new to solve a problem and then share it with the community; and the Fixathon, where web users learn how to find and fix the most important issues on their websites. Initiatives A prospective student looks at the OSU homepage. An undergraduate uses their phone to check their grades in the student dashboard. An employee finds and downloads their W2 to prep for tax season. These types of interactions collectively define the OSU digital experience. The Digital Experience Initiative The Digital Experience Initiative is a multi-year, multi-project effort that aims to transform the OSU digital landscape and improve the utility, quality and credibility of the OSU online experience. We believe that, through this initiative, we can make a difference in terms of each OSU student's success. Check it out Community Are you an OSU web communicator? Join our community! Meet other creators from across campus and get to know the ins and outs of the OSU web landscape. Teams Channel Chat online with other other members of the community and get up-to-the-minute updates on the web at OSU. Anyone with an Oregon State email address can join our Teams channel. Join us Community Meetings Join the conversation about the web at Oregon State and hear from others about best practices, helpful tutorials and important updates. Also, snacks! Learn more DX Directory Now that you know what we do at Digital Experience, check out who we are. Check us out Directory OSU Mobile Site Owner Policy Web Customer Advisory Group Directory › Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer