Skip to main content Filter your search by category. Current category: All All Knowledge Base Service Catalog Search Sign In Show Applications Menu Client Portal Sign In Search Get Help Home Services Knowledge Base More Applications Service Catalog Contact the Service Desk Contact the Service Desk Show Help For All Fields Hide Help For All Fields Submit this form to contact the Service Desk. You may also reach us by phone at 541-737-8787 or in person at Milne Computer Center room 201. Term hours are M-F 8am-7pm and weekends 3pm-7pm. Break and Summer hours are M-F 8am-5pm. We will review and respond to your request within those hours. Other support contacts: * Canvas Support: Click on "Help" in Canvas for contact info * Qualtrics: 1-800-340-9194 * Zoom Support: 1-888-799-8854 If you are trying to get transcripts, an ONID account is not required. You can use the self-help method at this website: https://registrar.oregonstate.edu/transcripts To activate an ONID account or reset your password, see: https://onid.oregonstate.edu/ To sign up for Duo or activate a new Duo device, see: http://duo.oregonstate.edu/ Title of this request A short description to explain the nature of this request. Category (Required) Select the category that best meets your request. Account or password issue Box Canvas Device, software or application help Duo Email Network connection Transcripts Other Canvas course info Please enter the course or courses you are requesting assistance with. Include prefix, course number, course section, and instructor. 
 Description (Required) Please describe your request. 
 ONID Username Enter ONID username if applicable. OSU Computer Name or Serial Number If this is an OSU computer, please include the computer name or serial number. Preferred Contact Method Either email or phone Email Phone Phone Number Enter the best number to use to contact you about this request. Best Times to Call List the best times to reach you by phone if you prefer to be reached by phone. Attachment Provide any screenshots, photos, or documents related to your request Browse... Related ticket(s) This field is intended if tickets are related to each other. E.g. - An appointment with multiple associated tickets. 
 Other Fields Your name Your first name Your last name Your email address Verification Code Oregon State University