Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Academic Technology » Media Services Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Service Desk Services IT Changes Directory Organizations Academic Technology Classroom Technology Services Learning Platform Services Media Services Technical Services Client Services Campus Labs Enterprise Computing Services Administrative Computing Team Applications Testing and Operations Data Architecture Team Integrated Systems Middleware Integration Solutions Team IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Applications Access and Deployment Identity and Access Management Shared Infrastructure Group Networking and Telecom Network Operations Plant Infrastructure Telecom Digital Experience About IS Project Management Media Services Media Services offers many options for your production needs, both in and out of the classroom. These include (video and/or audio) recording, videoconferencing, broadcast connections to networks worldwide, and studio productions. Media Services produces media and instructional materials for media outlets, web applications, or recorded formats. For your event needs, Media Services offers presentation support and live streaming. Our ResourcesContact UsBlogZoom Resources Contact Us Submit a Service Request Visit Us In-person at LINC 466 Call us at 541-737-2121 Live Submit Request LINC Frequently Asked Questions Event Production Delivering your message in person and worldwide with Media Services staffing, equipment, and facilities. Event Production Academic Course Production Connect with your students with Media Services staff, facilities, and equipment through course recordings and distance education. Academic Course Production Web Collaboration & Videoconferencing Collaborate worldwide while Media Services provides staff, facilities, and equipment for your meetings, trainings, and courses. Collaboration & Videoconferencing Broadcast Productions Providing technical solutions and connections linking the OSU community with broadcasters worldwide. Broadcast Productions Promotional Production Create your campaign with Media Services staff, facilities and equipment. Promotional Production Keep Teaching Assistant Faculty and Instructors may request a TechKTA to support course sections delivered in remote and blended modalities, so that they may focus on content and delivery. TechKTA Student Multimedia SERVICES Providing multimedia facilities, equipment, and technical support for students producing and presenting academic work. Student Multimedia Services Consultations & Training Meet with Media Services staff to identify solutions for your media needs. Review how to use Zoom tools, best practices for recording, and prepare for hosting remote events. Consults & Training Faculty Media Center DIY media studios, consulting and technical support for faculty and staff producing teaching and training materials. Faculty Media Center Visit Us LINC, Oregon State University's Learning Innovation Center, is home to the University Honors College (UHC) and the Integrated Learning Resource Center (ILRC) which co-locates the Center for Teaching and Learning and Academic Technology, including Classroom Technology Services, Learning Platform Services, Media Services, and Technical Services, creating a dynamic teaching and learning support center for OSU faculty and students. The four-story, 134,000 sq. ft. building features 15 new classrooms with 2,300 seats of formal teaching space and 640 seats of student-directed informal learning space. LINC introduces new styles of learning spaces that support collaboration and student participation, including Parliament and "In-the-Round" classroom designs. Both UHC and ILRC are located on the 4th floor of the building. Enjoy sweeping views of the campus and mountain ranges while relaxing in one of the many informal learning spaces scatted throughout the cooridors. Staff and Faculty will find a quiet respite in the Faculty Lounge, room 468. The Faculty Lounge includes white boards, two large display monitors with laptop connections, CTL library, relaxed seating, and even a sink and counter for meals. Stop by between classes to prep or just relax. Media Services 466 Learning Innovation Center | 165 SW Sackett Place | Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-2121 Monday - Friday: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer