Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Zoom Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Teaching Training and Support Getting Started Knowledge Base FAQs Passcode Requirement Learning Teach/Learn/Work Recording Lectures Audio Conferencing Working Webinar Licenses Room Systems Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Teaching Training and Support Getting Started Knowledge Base FAQs Passcode Requirement Learning Teach/Learn/Work Recording Lectures Audio Conferencing Working Webinar Licenses Room Systems Recording Lectures We encourage you to record lectures and class sessions in Zoom if it will assist with student learning or if it will provide greater access to students who may be in different time zones or who may have trouble with their technology. At the same time, we want to make you aware of things you can do to mitigate concerns around student privacy. By virtue of registering for your class, students have agreed to be known to you and to the other students in your class. If you intend to use your recorded lectures for another purpose (e.g., for another offering of the same class) then students cannot appear (i.e., they cannot be seen, heard, or have their names revealed) in your recording unless they have provided their consent. If your recorded lecture or class session involves a class discussion, and you are concerned that the recording may be viewed by others outside your class, we recommend that you: Provide instructions for students to protect their identity by disabling their video; Provide instructions for students to change how their name appears in zoom (be sure to direct students to inform you of the pseudonym they choose for your attendance and participation purposes); Provide options for students to ‘opt out’ of being on camera or speaking: You must communicate this information using Canvas tools and at the beginning of each recording. If you have a confidential student in your class, which you may find in your ‘Summary Faculty Class List’ in Online Services, you must take extra precaution to ensure your recorded video cannot be accessed by other students if the recording includes any information about the confidential student(s). Frequently Asked Questions Can I record my lecture to show in other classes? If you have students participating in the lecture (e.g. via Zoom), their names cannot be displayed to other classes without students’ express written consent (or for Spring 2020 only, electronically obtained via authentication). Alternatively, you may edit your recording to remove student information. Can I record my lecture to keep for students in the class where it was recorded? Yes, you may. If student interaction occurs during the recording, you must ensure that the recording can only be accessed by those students enrolled in the class. What if I teach several sections of the same class—may I record the lecture for one section and post to other sections? OSU’s interpretation of FERPA sees students in combined sections of the same course and the same learning modality (e.g. on-campus/remote; Ecampus) as being enrolled in the same course. We advise you, if possible, to edit out student information. How can I edit out student information? Kaltura allows instructors to capture lectures and edit videos before posting. Please consult Academic Technology for assistance with Kaltura. Where can I learn more about how to instruct students on turning off their video or changing their name on video platforms? Academic Technology provides support for video platforms. Can I record my virtual classroom activities for research? Research involving capturing audio/visual information requires review from the Human Research Protection Program. Please consult with Allyson Dean in the Office of the Registrar to determine what FERPA requirements might apply to your research. Who should I contact if I have questions about FERPA rights in my virtual classroom? You may contact Allyson Dean in the Office of the Registrar with FERPA questions. ‹ Teach/Learn/Work Audio Conferencing › Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer