Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Information Services » Zoom Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Teaching Training and Support Getting Started Knowledge Base FAQs Passcode Requirement Learning Teach/Learn/Work Recording Lectures Audio Conferencing Working Webinar Licenses Room Systems Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Teaching Training and Support Getting Started Knowledge Base FAQs Passcode Requirement Learning Teach/Learn/Work Recording Lectures Audio Conferencing Working Webinar Licenses Room Systems × Zoom Meetings Will Require Version 5.10+ Starting Saturday, June 11th - Update Now zoom-logo-blue.png Easy and reliable video and web collaboration. Log in to Zoom Join a meeting Get Started Teach/Learn/Work Stay Secure Support + Training Zoom is Oregon State University's official video conferencing platform, and is the recommended client for use during campus closures. Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to use Zoom to create and host high-quality online meetings, classes and events, and leverage Zoom's video, chat, breakout rooms, screen-sharing and whiteboard capabilities. Get Started with Zoom Brand new to Zoom? Check out our Getting Started guide, with installation instructions and tips for basic Zoom use. Online Meetings HD video, audio, collaboration and chat Host, Schedule, or Join a Meeting Now Secure your Zoom meetings Audio Conferencing Connect using audio-only conference calls with VoIP, dial in and call out options Audio-Only Conference Calling Video Webinars Present live virtual events HD video, audio, Q&A and polling Request a Webinar License for Your Event Room SystemS Power up your meeting room or classroom with video conferencing Learn about Room Systems Teach, Learn, Work Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and ensuing lockdown and restrictions leading to campus closures, using Zoom to teach, learn and work remotely has been imperative. Courses are now being taught, office hours held and presentations given all remotely and via Zoom. Below are some quick resource links for using Zoom effectively in order to keep teaching, learning and working. Zoom Teaching Zoom Learning Zoom Working Stay Secure With the advent of issues such as "zoombombing" — an act where malicious individuals join a Zoom meeting and interject content that is vulgar, discriminatory or personally upsetting — it's important to take strong security measures. Zoom Security Best Practices The Office of Information Security has released a series of recommendations on Zoom security, including best practices on how to properly configure your meetings and set up a waiting room. More information and instruction on how to establish security settings in Zoom: Knowledge base article on Zoom security settings and how they function Video tutorials on using the waiting room and configuring security settings Support and Training Get the help and information you need on a variety of topics by browsing our comprehensive list of learning and support resources from Zoom and UIT, as well as live and recorded training opportunities offered by Zoom. Support and Training Resources Direct Help Service Desk Call 541-737-8787 Submit a support ticket Zoom (24x7 support)* *Zoom is temporarily limiting direct user support until the end of June. At this time, please contact the Service Desk, not Zoom directly. Technical Keep-Teaching Assistants Tech Keep-Teaching Assistant (TechKTA) are UIT student workers who have been trained by Academic Technology to assist faculty with various aspects of teaching in Zoom in order to free up faculty to focus on content and delivery. Examples of what TechKTA's can assist with: Muting and unmuting students Looking for students who virtually raise their hand Turning off students’ audio and/or video if it is disruptive Limiting chat functions if needed Request a TechKTA Knowledge Base Information Services has a growing collection of knowledge base articles on common Zoom processes and issues, from how to pull meeting attendance and set up virtual office hours, to troubleshooting audio and disabling disruptive video. Search our knowledge base Media tutorials and help videos Academic Technology has created a series of Zoom help videos, with topics ranging from class meeting settings and participant controls, to security and waiting room settings. Watch videos FAQs If you haven't found what you're looking for, or you're just looking for a quick solution to a simple issue, there's a good chance you'll find it in our collection of FAQs. Check out FAQs Teaching Training and Support Learning Teach/Learn/Work Audio Conferencing Working Webinar Licenses Room Systems Teaching › Contact Info Information Services Office of the Vice-Provost Kerr Admin Bldg. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter Support Search the Knowledge Base Call us at 541-737-8787 Submit a Help Ticket Service Desk Hours Term hours: M-F 8am-7pm, weekends 3pm-7pm. Breaks and summer: M-F 8am-5pm. Services Box Campus Map [email protected] myDegrees OSU Events Calendar OSU Mobile View all services Departments Academic Technology Client Services Enterprise Computing Services IT Infrastructure and Identity Services Networking and Telecommunications Office of the Vice Provost View directory Copyright ©2019 Oregon State University | Disclaimer