Skip to main content Integrated Service Center Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Sign in to Workday Contact Us Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Enter search text Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Note: This is a printed version of https://isc.uw.edu/your-pay-taxes/paycheck-info. Please visit this page on the ISC website to ensure you're referencing the most current information. Integrated Service Center Menu Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Integrated Service Center Your Pay & Taxes Your Paycheck and Payslip Your Paycheck and Payslip Last updated Friday, January 14, 2022 Please note: Information about Paydays and Direct Deposit has moved. On This Page: Accessing and Understanding Your Workday Payslip Accessing Pre-Workday Payslips Correcting Your Paycheck (in the event of underpayment or overpayment) Requesting a Replacement Check Understanding Your Paycheck Deductions Accessing and Understanding Your Workday Payslip Follow the below steps to access your payslips in Workday; note that access to Workday requires you to be enrolled in Duo, the UW’s two-factor authentication (2FA) solution. Sign into Workday via the Sign in to Workday link at the top right of this page. In Workday, select the Pay worklet In View section, select the Payslips button. On the next screen, locate the payslip you want to access, and select the View button; to print it, select the Print button. Visit the How to Read Your Payslip page for help understanding the information that appears on your payslip. FAQs I receive a paper check. When should I expect it? First things first – Make sure your current home address is correct in Workday! Also, please consider changing to direct deposit to ensure prompt payment every payday. If you do choose to receive a paper check, it should arrive at your home address on payday. If you do not receive your paper paycheck within two business days, please check with the HCM Initiate 2 or Time and Absence Initiate in your unit. You can also contact the ISC for help. Note that, if you do not have either a) direct deposit or b) an address listed in Workday where your paycheck can be mailed, you will need to pick up your paycheck in person at the ISC. You’ll need to present photo ID. How can I receive my pay faster and easier? If you are currently receiving a paper check, please consider changing to direct deposit to ensure prompt payment every payday—and for your added convenience. In Workday, you can split your direct deposit among up to three different bank accounts. Still have questions? UW Campus Employees: Contact the ISC Medical Centers Employees: Contact AskKronos@uw.edu Correcting Your Paycheck If you think you’ve been either overpaid or underpaid, take the following steps; your department can assist you, if need be: Review your payslip and Worker History in Workday. Be sure you understand your paycheck deductions. If you enter time, confirm you submitted it in Workday prior to the Payroll deadline. Verify that you haven’t had any recent changes to your salary. Once you’ve confirmed an error in your pay, your department must submit a request to the ISC to correct the overpayment or underpayment. If you discover an overpayment on your paycheck, you are required to notify your department immediately. A series of state and federal regulations govern the overpayment process; as a state agency, the University of Washington is required by law to recover overpaid funds. Note for Medical Center Employees If you feel your payslip is incorrect, review the information in Kronos and the Exception Schedule. If you need help, contact your Payroll Specialist in Med Centers Payroll Services. Requesting a Replacement Check Replacement checks can be issued when a paycheck is lost or stolen, damaged, or dated more than six months ago. If the payday was recent and you receive a paper check, your paycheck may still be in the mail. You may wish to verify the mailing address you have specified in Workday for accuracy. To request a replacement check, contact the ISC with the subject line “Cancel/Reissue” and include the following information: Your name Your preferred contact information Payday date (can be found in Workday) Net amount of check (can be found in Workday) The reason why the replacement check is needed Note for Medical Center Employees Request a replacement check by contacting Medical Centers Payroll Services. Understanding Your Paycheck Deductions Deductions from your paycheck can be either: Voluntary – These are deductions you have elected and agreed to have withheld from your paycheck, such as benefits premiums and retirement contributions. -or- Involuntary – These are deductions mandated by federal or state government or the courts to be withheld from your paycheck. Other Voluntary Deductions Apart from your benefits premiums and retirement plan contributions, the Voluntary Deductions summarized below are handled by various UW departments and initiated in Workday by them, rather than by the ISC. For questions involving these Voluntary Deductions, contact the department listed in the Contact Information column. Deduction Type Deduction Department Contact Information Transportation Campus U-Pass & Parking Transportation Services 206-221-3701; ucommute@uw.edu Transportation HMC U-Pass & Parking HMC Parking Office 206-744-3254; hmcpark@uw.edu Transportation Bothell Campus Parking Bothell Parking 425-352-3246; uwb-trans@uw.edu Transportation Tacoma Campus Parking Tacoma Parking Office 253-692-5926; uwtpark@uw.edu Unions Union Dues Unions Contact your Union Representative directly if you have questions. Other Husky Card Husky Card Office 206-543-9537; huskycrd@uw.edu Other UW Gift Account UW Gift Account Office 206-685-9248; payrgift@uw.edu Other PSO (Professional Staff Org.) PSO 206-543-4340; psoboard@uw.edu Other AAUP AAUP 206-543-4793; uwaap@uw.edu Other IMA Recreational Sports Program IMA Office 206-616-1142; ima@uw.edu Other Sports Tickets UW Tickets Office 206-543-2200; tickets@uw.edu Other CFD (Combined Fund Drive Office) UW CFD Office 206-616-3678; uwcfd@uw.edu Involuntary Deductions The University is required by law to deduct funds from your paycheck when directed to do so by a Withholding Order received from a government agency or court. These deductions may include: Garnishments Child Support Employment Security Educational Loans Chapter 13 Labor and Industry Office of Finance Recovery Internal Revenue Service If you have questions regarding a Withholding Order, contact the agency responsible for the deduction or refer to the legal document you received. If you did not receive a legal document, contact the agency to make sure that they have your correct address on file. Any Withholding Order documentation that the UW is required to send to an employee must be sent to the address provided by the agency, not to the employee’s address which is on file with the UW. ISC Payroll does not provide copies of withholding order documents. Changes to amounts deducted must come by notification from the agency or court. If, after contacting the agency or upon inspection of the legal document, you believe that the deduction is incorrect, contact the ISC for further review. Accessing Your Pre-Workday Payslips You can find your payslips for paydays prior to June 27, 2017 in Legacy ESS. Note that only your June 15, 2017 payslip will display YTD totals. Access to Legacy ESS requires UW NetID credentials and enrollment in Duo, UW’s two-factor authentication (2FA) solution. Duo Eligibility For Former Employees Former Employees are eligible to enroll in Duo through the remainder of the year in which they left the University, plus three years. For example, an employee who left the UW in November of 2020 will be eligible for Duo through the remainder of 2020, all of 2021, 2022, and 2023; after 2023, they are no longer eligible. If you are outside of the Duo eligibility window, refer to the Resources For Former Employees page for guidance. Take me to Legacy ESS Contact Info & Resource Links University of Washington Contact Information UW Tower, Floor O-2 ischelp@uw.edu ISC Quick Links Sign In to Workday About the ISC Contact the ISC Translation Disclaimer HR Departments UW HR Academic HR Medical Centers UW Resources MyUW UW Homepage SafeCampus UW IT UW Transportation Employment at UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington, Seattle, WA