Skip to main content Integrated Service Center Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Sign in to Workday Contact Us Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Enter search text Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Note: This is a printed version of https://isc.uw.edu/using-workday/managing-your-personal-and-work-information. Please visit this page on the ISC website to ensure you're referencing the most current information. Integrated Service Center Menu Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Integrated Service Center Using Workday Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Last updated Tuesday, February 1, 2022 On This Page: Personal Information Work Information Personal Information The Personal Information you can update in Workday includes your home and mailing address(es), date of birth, gender, ethnicity and military status; note that certain changes to your personal information require verification. Home/Mailing Address There many reasons to make sure the Home Address you have listed in Workday is accurate. A missing or incorrect address could put you at risk for not receiving your paycheck or tax documents on time, being offered the wrong benefits options, or even being taxed incorrectly. Every employee is responsible for ensuring that their Home Address and “Mailing” designation in Workday are correct. To confirm or update this information in Workday: Go to the Personal Information worklet and, under View, select Addresses. Select Edit at the top of the screen that lists your Home Contact Information and your Work Contact Information. Under Home Contact Information, take a moment to make sure the address(es) listed are accurate. Choose the address you want to use as your mailing address and select the Pencil icon. In the Usage field, make sure Mailing has been selected from the menu. To save the changes you made, select Submit and then select Done at the bottom of the screen. FAQs About Your Address in Workday My address looks correct in Workday. Should I still ensure I've set a mailing address? Yes. Because it’s possible to list more than one Home Address in Workday (a common practice for students, for example, who provide both their Seattle address and their parents’ address), you need to manually specify which Home Address you wish to use as your Mailing Address – even if you have only one Home Address listed. Do I have to use my Primary Home Address as my Mailing Address? Not necessarily. Your Primary Home Address should be the address you use while working at the UW and is the address for which your taxes will be based. Though your Primary Home Address can certainly be designated as your Mailing Address, you can enter another Additional Home Address (including an out-of-state address) and designate that as your Mailing Address. Your Mailing Address should simply be where you want to receive your tax forms. Can I designate ALL my Home Addresses as my Mailing Address? It is best practice to choose just one Mailing Address to ensure any of your documents go to the correct location. Though you can enter more than one Home Address, and it is possible to designate each Home Address with a “Mailing” usage, you should make sure your Mailing Address is the address where you want your tax forms sent. Can I designate my Work Address as my Mailing Address? In general, you should NOT designate a Work Address as a Mailing Address. Though there is a “mailing usage” option if you add an Alternate Work Location, many campus Work Addresses do not provide enough information for USPS, and your tax information will likely be returned to the ISC as undeliverable mail. Please verify that you have a Home Address listed, and that your Home Address and NOT your Work Address is designated as your Mailing Address. Legal Name Change If you want to change your Legal Name for UW employment purposes, you must first change your name on your Social Security Card. Once you’ve received your new Social Security Card, you can make the change in Workday. Preferred Name Change Your Preferred Name is what appears in the UW Directory and other sources of campus contact information. Most UW software and services use the Identity.UW website to determine how to display your name. Once you set your Preferred Name via Identity.UW, it should appear that way in other places. Some UW services are required to use your Legal Name. Setting a Preferred Name will not update your Legal Name. Gender Identity In Workday, you have the option to set your gender as Male, Female, or X/Non-Binary. Date of Birth A Date of Birth change requires the employee to provide proof of the change and ISC approval. Acceptable documentation is either a copy of your state-issued driver license (or ID card) or both your birth certificate and a current photo ID. Change of Citizenship Status Employees are not able to update their own Citizenship Status in Workday. If your citizenship status has changed, please contact your department or unit’s I-9 Coordinator to make the update. Please note that you may have to provide documentation proving the change in Citizenship Status. Emergency Contacts You can manage your Emergency Contacts in Workday. Follow these step-by-step instructions on how to edit your Emergency Contacts. Work Information In Workday When you get a promotion, have a change in compensation, or move offices, your department will make the updates in Workday. You can view your Work Information, including job details, compensation, and work history, in Workday on the Profile screen. In the UW Directory If you have elected to be published in the UW Directory, your work phone number(s), email address(es), and (optionally) physical address(es) in Workday will be marked Public. Work contact information marked “Public” in Workday is in turn published to the UW Directory. Visit Identity.UW to manage the information about you that’s displayed in the UW Directory. Visit UW-IT’s IT Connect website for FAQs about the UW Directory. If you prefer to have your departmental email address listed in the UW Directory instead of your primary UW email address, enter the departmental email address as an Additional Work Email Address in Workday – see the Edit Work Contact Information section of the Edit Personal Information User Guide. Your entry in the UW Directory includes your Business Title and Supervisory Organization name. Departments may change the name of Supervisory Organizations; the following additional options are specifically available to Academic Personnel: You have the option to “Show secondary job titles” as a means to display your Academic Title and Academic Unit. If you are an Unpaid Academic, your Academic Title and Academic Unit will display instead of your Business Title and Supervisory Organization name. Changes made in Workday are reflected in the UW Directory later in the day or the following day. Stay up-to-date! We highly recommend taking a few moments at least once a year to review your information in Workday and make sure everything is still up-to-date and accurate - visit the Annual Workday Review Checklist page for guidance. Contact Info & Resource Links University of Washington Contact Information UW Tower, Floor O-2 ischelp@uw.edu ISC Quick Links Sign In to Workday About the ISC Contact the ISC Translation Disclaimer HR Departments UW HR Academic HR Medical Centers UW Resources MyUW UW Homepage SafeCampus UW IT UW Transportation Employment at UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington, Seattle, WA