Skip to main content Integrated Service Center Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Sign in to Workday Contact Us Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Enter search text Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Note: This is a printed version of https://isc.uw.edu/pslf. Please visit this page on the ISC website to ensure you're referencing the most current information. Integrated Service Center Menu Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Integrated Service Center Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Last updated Wednesday, April 6, 2022 As part of the U.S. Department of Education’s Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Program, the ISC is authorized to complete a Public Service Employment Certification form. Since the ISC is closed to the public during the public health crisis, as a temporary measure, employees can submit their PSLF form to the ISC via email to have them completed and returned electronically. Instructions 1. Download the PSLF form (PDF) from the U.S. Department of Education’s Federal Student Aid website. 2. Print the form and complete Section 1. When finished, scan the edited hard copy and save the file to your computer. Alternatively, if you have software that allows you to edit PDF documents (such as Adobe Acrobat Pro), complete Section 1 of the form electronically and save your changes. For security purposes, when completing the “SSN” field on the form, please only include the last four digits of your Social Security Number. 3. Email the form to ischelp@uw.edu as an attachment. Doing so will create a case in our issue tracking system. 4. Once the ISC receives your form, Sections 2, 3, and 4 will be completed and returned to you via email as part of your case. 5. Print the completed PSLF form and mail it to the U.S. Department of Education, FedLoan Servicing – see Section 7 of the PSLF form (on page 4) for their mailing address. Frequently Asked Questions Can the ISC help me determine if I am eligible for the PSLF program? No. PSLF eligibility is determined by FedLoan Servicing; the ISC is only authorized to sign the PSLF form and does not determine PSLF eligibility. Additional information can be found at the Public Service Loan Forgiveness FAQ page on the U.S. Department of Education’s Federal Student Aid website. Does the ISC send the completed form to FedLoans directly? No. The ISC will email the completed PSLF form back to the employee. It is the employee’s responsibility to then send their PSLF form to FedLoan Servicing – see step #5 in the Instructions section, above. What is considered “full time”? For PSLF purposes, “full time employment” means working 30 or more hours per week. This equals .75% FTE or higher. What date will the ISC use as my Hire Date? The ISC will use your original hire date when completing Section 3 of the form; this applies to re-hired employees as well (i.e. the ISC will use the hire date of your most recent position). In turn, FedLoans will determine which date you become eligible. What is the UW's Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN)? The Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN) for the University of Washington is 91-6001537. What address should I use as my Employer Address? The University of Washington’s address is 1410 NE Campus Parkway Seattle, WA 98195. Is the University of Washington a governmental organization? Yes. As a WA state agency, the University of Washington is considered a governmental organization. I’m a former Northwest Hospital/UW Physicians Network employee. How do I get my employment prior to the merger verified for PSLF? Former Northwest Hospital employees should contact hrwms@uw.edu. Former UW Physicians employees should contact uwpadp@uw.edu. What happens if I receive a rejection notice from FedLoans? If you receive a rejection notice because the UW failed to provide information, send the rejection notice to the ISC at ischelp@uw.edu. An employment specialist from the ISC will then contact FedLoan Servicing directly to clarify your employment. Related Links For more information about the PSLF Program, visit the U.S. Department of Education's website and UWHR's website. Contact Info & Resource Links University of Washington Contact Information UW Tower, Floor O-2 ischelp@uw.edu ISC Quick Links Sign In to Workday About the ISC Contact the ISC Translation Disclaimer HR Departments UW HR Academic HR Medical Centers UW Resources MyUW UW Homepage SafeCampus UW IT UW Transportation Employment at UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington, Seattle, WA