Skip to main content Integrated Service Center Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Sign in to Workday Contact Us Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Enter search text Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Note: This is a printed version of https://isc.uw.edu/your-time-absence/time-entry. Please visit this page on the ISC website to ensure you're referencing the most current information. Integrated Service Center Menu Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Integrated Service Center Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Entry Last updated Friday, April 22, 2022 On This Page: What is time entry? Do I need to enter time? When and how do I enter time? What if I make a mistake? What is time entry? Time entry is the catch-all term for the process of adding, editing, removing, or otherwise managing time blocks on the timesheet in Workday. These time blocks account for hours worked and are typically in alignment with an employee’s Work Schedule. Do I need to enter time? Understanding Your Job Code(s) Before we define who enters time into Workday, you will want to be familiar with the following vocabulary terms, and know which categories you fall into. Exempt (E) vs. Non-Exempt (NE) Exempt (E) employees are those who are not eligible to earn overtime.* Non-Exempt (NE) employees are those who are eligible to earn overtime. *Some exempt populations are eligible for overtime, such as those covered by a labor contract or those with university-approved exceptions. Salaried (S) vs. Hourly (H) Salaried (S) employees are those whose Base Pay is setup at a monthly rate. This rate is split over two pay periods per month. Hourly (H) employees are those whose Base Pay is setup at an hourly rate. The amount they earn each pay period is directly dependent on the number of hours they enter on their timesheets in Workday. As a general rule (there are exceptions!), most Academic Personnel and Professional Staff are Salaried (S), and Classified Staff and Student employees can be either Salary (S) or Hourly (H) dependent on their position. How do I look up my code(s)? If you do not know if you are E, NE, S, and/or H, this can easily be looked up in Workday. To do so, follow these steps: Log in to Workday via the Sign in to Workday link at the top of this page. Select the cloud icon at the top-right of the home screen. On hover, this is labeled “Profile.” Select View Profile under your Name. In the Job Details section, find your Job Profile. The parentheses following your Job Profile will display your NE, E, H, and/or S designation. You may also see your compensation grade (a number) or union name. If you have more than one job at UW, each job may have a different designation. To switch between multiple jobs, select the arrow icon under your name to switch and investigate the Job Profile you have for each job. Employees Who Enter Time Employees who enter time in Workday include: Non-Exempt Salaried (NE S) employees All Hourly (H or NE H) employees Specific populations of Exempt (E) employees on campus: WFSE Police Management (PM) Lieutenants 1199NW Research/Hall Health Applied Physics Lab (for costing purposes only) Oceanography Exempt Staff (HR-approved only) Excepted Staff (HR-approved only) Employees Who Do Not Enter Time Employees who do not enter time in Workday include: Exempt Salaried Employees (E S), see the section above for exceptions. Medical Centers employees enter their time in Kronos. When and how do I enter time? If you have determined you do enter time into Workday via the section above, it’s important to understand that time entry can be pay- and benefits-impacting! This means that knowing by when and how to enter time is core knowledge for ensuring your pay and benefits are delivered to you properly. When do I need to enter time? All time entered onto your timesheet in Workday should accurately account for the hours you work. In addition, the time blocks you submit are subject to approval by your Time and Absence Approver (TAA). Typically, the person with the TAA role is synonymous with your direct supervisor, but this is dependent on the unit you work for. All timesheets must be submitted and approved by the Timesheet Approval Deadline, per the Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar. This deadline is indicated on your timesheet as “Time Period Lockout,” followed by dates framing the pay period you will be locked out of making changes to. Important Note about Deadlines to Submit The deadlines described on the calendar page linked above are UW-wide deadlines. It is very common that units set internal deadlines earlier than those outlined in the calendar above, to give unit administrators time to audit and follow-up as needed each pay period. Be sure to check with your Time and Absence Approver to find out what your internal deadline(s) are each month. How do I enter my time? We provide several resources, linked below, to assist you in learning how to enter your time. Read through the description prior to choosing where you’d like to start. Resource Description Enter Time User Guide This is the primary User Guide for entering, adjusting, and removing time blocks on your timesheet. It outlines all of the roles and procedures involved in this Business Process. Enter Time Quick Guide (PDF) This Quick Guide can be used as a brief reference tool for entering time.* Overtime Concepts for Time Entry in Workday (Self-Paced e-Learning Course) This course overviews some of the key concepts and nuances for overtime in Workday. Concepts include understanding Work Schedules, and deep-dives into overtime concepts like view details, flex time, and compensatory time tags. Enter Time – Accu-Time User Guide Accu-Time Quick Guides:* Punch In/Transfer Time (PDF) Punch Out/Transfer Job or Dept (PDF) Edit Entry (PDF) These resources are for employees who enter time via Accu-Time, a Punch In/Punch Out system that integrates with Workday. The major units that use this system are HFS, ICA, and FS. *We do not recommend using Quick Guides as a sole resource for information, as they are intended to be job aids for those already experienced in entering time. What if I make a mistake? Most of the time, you are welcome to fix errors yourself and re-submit the timesheet for re-approval. There are a few additional considerations, though, detailed below. What is the timing of the error? The timing of these fixes does matter, though, and are heavily dependent on the Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar we mentioned earlier. Deadline distinctions for fixing mistakes are outlined below: Prior to the payroll lockout date for the current pay period... Use the resources we mentioned in the How Do I Enter My Time? section of this page for help with the following. Which of the following statements applies? I made a mistake. If you find you’ve made an error after you have submitted your time for approval, and even after your time has been approved, you can make adjustments to your hours and resubmit your timesheet. Any changes you make after your time has approved and processed for the time period will affect your following paycheck. My Time and Absence Approver found a mistake. Your Time and Absence Approver may send your timesheet back to you with comments for items to edit. Be sure to make the edits and submit the timesheet again for approval prior to the deadline. While your unit is locked out of making changes... If the University is in the middle of payroll processing, you will be locked out of making adjustments to the pay period being processed. This window will lift in accordance with the calendar. We may be able to help! Occasionally, if the mistake is caught quickly enough and/or is a simple fix, the Payroll team may be able to help. Have your unit’s administrator(s) reach out to the ISC to find out if there is anything we can do. After payroll has been processed for the pay period with the mistake... Which of the following statements applies? I didn’t record my hours correctly, but there were no issues with my paycheck. After the Payroll Calculation Window closes, you can adjust your timesheet and re-submit it for approval to keep your records accurate. Use the resources we mentioned in the How Do I Enter My Time? section of this page for help with the following. I suspect an overpayment/underpayment that I can adjust on my timesheet now. After the Payroll Calculation Window closes, you can adjust your timesheet and re-submit it for approval. We recommend having your Time and Absence Initiate re-run the calculations on your timesheet in these scenarios. Workday should automatically pick up the issue and correct it on your next paycheck. Use the resources we mentioned in the “How Do I Enter My Time?” section of this page for help with the following. I suspect an overpayment/underpayment that can’t be fixed without payroll’s intervention. We recommend checking out our Overpayments and Underpayments pages for more information and how to get our help. Getting Help If you need further assistance with your time entry process, we recommend following the guidance on the How to Get Workday Help page. Contact Info & Resource Links University of Washington Contact Information UW Tower, Floor O-2 ischelp@uw.edu ISC Quick Links Sign In to Workday About the ISC Contact the ISC Translation Disclaimer HR Departments UW HR Academic HR Medical Centers UW Resources MyUW UW Homepage SafeCampus UW IT UW Transportation Employment at UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington, Seattle, WA