Skip to main content Integrated Service Center Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Sign in to Workday Contact Us Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Enter search text Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Integrated Service Center Menu Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Integrated Service Center About the Integrated Service Center Note: This is a printed version of https://isc.uw.edu/about. Please visit this page on the ISC website to ensure you're referencing the most current information. About the Integrated Service Center Last updated Thursday, July 29, 2021 On This Page What is the Integrated Service Center (ISC)? What is Workday? Learning How to Use Workday ISC Teams ISC Customer Support Representatives ISC HCM Service Partner Team ISC Payroll Team ISC Benefits Team ISC Service Support Team ISC Application Management Team What is the Integrated Service Center (ISC)? On June 27, 2017, the University of Washington replaced our 35-year old, decentralized legacy payroll system and many of its shadow systems with Workday, a modern, integrated, cloud-based software designed to standardize human resources and payroll processes. The launch of Workday, at the time the largest administrative effort in the University’s history, impacted over 45,000 employees working across three campuses, the Medical Centers and off-site facilities. To facilitate the transition to Workday, the Integrated Service Center (ISC) opened their doors to provide Workday transactional support for faculty, staff, and students. The ISC comprises several teams ranging from generalists to specialists, with the common goal of providing enhanced customer support and optimizing Workday operations. The ISC is supported by many collaborative partners, including UWHR, UW-IT, Academic Personnel and other central business units, and we work closely with those partners, as well as with campus leadership, departments, and administrators, to improve human resource and payroll processes, reduce duplicated efforts and increase efficiency, provide better data for decision making, and strengthen security and compliance. With Workday, it’s easier than ever for employees themselves to access, update and monitor their own payroll and benefits information, and employees will continue to work closely with their departments for many Workday tasks. Most transactions will continue to be entered, reviewed, approved and managed by departments and their HR and payroll representatives – including job hires, salaries and compensation, leave of absence, end dates and more. But when more complex transactional issues occur during the payroll or benefits process, the ISC is here to support employees, administrators and departments to solve Workday problems and optimize Workday processes. Visit our list of ISC Services to get a better understanding of the various services we provide. Fun fact: There are currently 62 total employees at the ISC. There are over 45,000 employees at the University of Washington who receive a paycheck every two weeks. That’s approximately 725 UW employees per each ISC staff member! What is Workday? Workday is the cloud-based system the University of Washington uses to centralize and standardize human resources and payroll processes across three campuses, the Medical Centers and other off-site facilities. Workday is a proven cloud-based enterprise resource planning (ERP) software solution for human resource and financial management, utilized by multiple industries and agencies including financial services, healthcare, energy, government, non-profit, hospitality, K-12 education, and higher education, and has been successfully deployed at other universities such as Arizona State University, Cornell, Louisiana State University, Ohio State University, the University of Pennsylvania, Yale and many more. Workdays numerous benefits include: An easy-to-use interface, available 24/7, that works on both Macs and PCs Online benefits enrollment Up to three direct deposit options, as well as enrollment in direct deposit at any time Real-time access for administrators and managers to human resources and payroll information Reduced paperwork, manual entry, duplicate data entry, and data entry errors Increased transparency and accountability through auditable business process workflows Consistent implementation of the latest technological upgrades across the entire UW’s HR and payroll system Workday Releases Workday releases platform improvements and feature upgrades designed to increase functionality and enhance the user experience twice a year, in September and March. These releases ensure UW stays up-to-date with technology changes, regulatory requirements, and our ever-expanding information needs. Data Integrity The ISC maintains the integrity of data in Workday in an ongoing effort to help identify and correct errors in employee records. The ISC regularly assesses opportunities for data review, and projects are prioritized according to payroll and/or benefits impact, possible negative downstream consequences, and number of people impacted. Visit the Workday Data Integrity page for additional information. Visit the Workday HR/P Cost Distribution for Organizational Units page for information on how the University of Washington distributes the costs of implementing Workday. Learning How to Use Workday Many tasks in Workday can be handled by employees or departments independently of the ISC. The ISC website provides: A comprehensive User Guide library searchable by topic, security role and keyword. E-Learning training resources for employees and Workday security role holders. Visit the Workday Training page for details. Several other self-service support resources, including Quick Guides, simplified versions of User Guides for select Workday processes. ISC Teams The ISC has several talented and hard-working teams ready to step in, assist and support faculty, staff and administrators with Workday transactions. ISC Customer Support Representatives The Customer Support Representatives (also sometimes referred to as Tier 1) provide support for all payroll, benefits and compensation issues that come into the ISC via contact forms, emails, phone calls or walk-ins. Our Customer Support Representatives have broad knowledge about many common issues that impact employees. (Workday Administrators, please note: you should first be working with your Named Support Contacts before contacting the ISC Customer Support Representatives.) The Tier 1s are the first point of contact for the majority of inquiries that come into the ISC. The team triages each inquiry, collects any additional information needed, and analyzes issues in order to either resolve the issue or, if they don’t have the answer, route tickets to the proper support team. ISC HCM Service Partner Team The HCM Service Partner team (also sometimes referred to as Tier 2) primarily works with departments and units to provide transactional support for organizations’ administrative activities in Workday, such as position events, hires, job changes, compensation changes, one-time payments, period activity pay and more. Working with the Named Support Contacts, the HCM Service Partners will be aligned with organizations within the UW in order to build effective partnerships, consult on Workday processes and transactions, and provide tailored support to meet the unique needs of our diverse campus. Medical Centers Staff work with the WMS Team for HCM type transactions. ISC Payroll Team Ensuring that every UW employee receives an accurate paycheck on time is the ISC’s top priority. The ISC Payroll Team processes around 45,000 paychecks each pay period! When issues surrounding payroll transactions are noticed, employees or departments – in partnership with Named Support Contacts and/or the ISC – investigate the underlying issue; when the problem has been successfully resolved, and if requested, the ISC Payroll Team can complete an off-cycle payment. In addition, the ISC Payroll Team works behind the scenes to handle all deductions, withholdings, and payroll accounting at the University. Medical Centers Staff work with the Medical Centers Payroll Services Team for questions regarding time worked, absence and paycheck issues related to Kronos. ISC Benefits Team The ISC Benefits Team handles transactions surrounding new enrollments and changes to health, wellness and retirement benefits. Tier 1 Customer Support Representatives collect as much information as possible from employees who have questions or have encountered challenges with benefits, and can resolve transactional issues in Workday regularly. However, more complex benefits issues may be escalated to the ISC Benefits Team. The ISC Benefits Team handles a large volume of benefit transactions, via Workday and paper forms. They work closely with vendors, review reports and perform complex analyses on a daily basis to ensure eligibility and that employees are enrolled properly. ISC Service Support Team The ISC Service Support Team provides Workday training to the UW community, and creates and maintains Workday how-to documentation, including User Guides, Quick Guides and other resources for employees and administrators, as well as the ISC itself. For individuals who currently possess or require security access in Workday, a list of upcoming classes can be found on the Workday Training web page. The ISC Service Support Team is also launching enhanced, next-level Workday training for employees who provide units or departments with HR and payroll support. ISC Application Management Team The Application Management Team (also sometimes referred to as Tier 3) is responsible for providing advanced Workday application management, including Workday configurations, security administration, integration administration, report development and maintenance, and support of regular Workday updates. Complex transactional issues in Workday may be escalated to this team for investigation and resolution. You can reach the Executive Director of the ISC by emailing ExecDirISC@uw.edu. Contact Info & Resource Links University of Washington Contact Information UW Tower, Floor O-2 ischelp@uw.edu ISC Quick Links Sign In to Workday About the ISC Contact the ISC Translation Disclaimer HR Departments UW HR Academic HR Medical Centers UW Resources MyUW UW Homepage SafeCampus UW IT UW Transportation Employment at UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington, Seattle, WA