Skip to main content Integrated Service Center Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Sign in to Workday Contact Us Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Enter search text Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Note: This is a printed version of https://isc.uw.edu/support-resources/how-to-get-workday-help/former-employees. Please visit this page on the ISC website to ensure you're referencing the most current information. Integrated Service Center Menu Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Integrated Service Center Support Resources How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Resources For Former Employees Last updated Wednesday, January 26, 2022 What Do You Need to Do? Update Your Address and Contact Information in Workday Access to Workday requires you to be enrolled in Duo, the UW’s two-factor authentication (2FA) solution. Duo Eligibility Window Former employees are eligible to enroll in Duo through the remainder of the year in which they left the University, plus three years afterward. ⇒ If you ARE NOT within the Duo eligibility window: Update your address and other contact information in Workday by contacting the ISC to request the desired changes. ⇒ If you ARE within the Duo eligibility window: 1. If you are not already enrolled in Duo, visit UW-IT’s website to enroll. 2. Once enrolled in Duo, log into Workday via the Sign in to Workday link at the top right of this page. 3. In Workday, update your legal name, address, and/or email address by selecting the Personal Information worklet and the relevant button(s) in the “Change” section. Access Your Payslips If you no longer work at the University, you can still access your payslips. However, the way you will access them depends on how long it has been since you were a UW employee. To be able to access your documents electronically, you will need both your UW NetID credentials and Duo, UW’s two-factor authentication (2FA) solution. Electronic Access Eligibility Window Former employees are eligible to access electronic copies of their payslips through the remainder of the year in which they left the University, plus three years afterward. ⇒ If you ARE NOT within this eligibility window: Request paper copies of your payslips by downloading and completing a Request for Paper Tax Forms (PDF), and mailing it to the address provided on the form, or faxing it to the ISC at 206-543-8137. ⇒ If you ARE within this eligibility window: If you are not already enrolled in Duo, visit UW-IT’s website to enroll. Once enrolled in Duo, you can electronically access your payslips accordingly: For paydays from June 27, 2017 and later, log into Workday via the Sign in to Workday link at the top right of this page. In Workday, select the Payroll worklet, then the “My Payslips” button. For paydays from June 27, 2017 to June 2015, visit Legacy ESS. For payslips prior to June 2015, please contact the ISC for assistance. Access Your Tax Documents If you no longer work at the University, you can still access your tax documents. However, the way you will access them depends on how long it has been since you were a UW employee. To be able to access your documents electronically, you will need both your UW NetID credentials and Duo, UW’s two-factor authentication (2FA) solution. Electronic Access Eligibility Window Former employees are eligible to access electronic copies of their tax documents through the remainder of the year in which they left the University, plus three years afterward. ⇒ If you ARE NOT within this eligibility window: Request paper copies of your tax documents by downloading and completing a Request for Paper Tax Forms (PDF), and mailing it to the address provided on the form, or faxing it to the ISC at 206-543-8137. Please note that requests for paper tax forms can take up to 48 hours to process. ⇒ If you ARE within this eligibility window: If you are not already enrolled in Duo, visit UW-IT’s website to enroll. Once enrolled in Duo, you can electronically access your tax documents accordingly: Tax forms (W-2, 1099-R, UW Stipend Letter, and 1042-S) from 2012-2016 can be accessed in Legacy ESS. Once in Legacy ESS, use the Tax Forms link on the left side of the screen, then select Print Tax Forms. Tax forms (W-2, 1099-R, and UW Stipend Letter) from 2017 forward can be accessed in Workday using steps 1-4 below. 1. Log into Workday using the Sign in to Workday link at the top of this page. 2. In Workday, select the Payroll worklet. 3. Select the My Tax Documents button. 4. Select the View/Print button under “Employee Copy,” and then select Notify Me Later on the “Your request is being processed” window. (Please note: you may need to “allow pop-ups from Workday” if your web browser blocks pop-ups). Your document(s) will then be delivered to your Notifications in Workday (select the “bell” icon at the upper right corner). Request Employment Verification Visit the Employment Verification Requests page for guidance. Frequently Asked Questions I forgot my UW NetID username and/or password. What should I do? Please contact UW-IT for assistance. I need help setting up/using Duo. What should I do? Review UW-IT’s Frequently asked questions page for Duo. If your question isn’t addressed there, please contact UW-IT for assistance. Where do I sign into Workday? You can access Workday via the Sign in to Workday link at the top right corner of this page (or any other page on the ISC website). Contact Info & Resource Links University of Washington Contact Information UW Tower, Floor O-2 ischelp@uw.edu ISC Quick Links Sign In to Workday About the ISC Contact the ISC Translation Disclaimer HR Departments UW HR Academic HR Medical Centers UW Resources MyUW UW Homepage SafeCampus UW IT UW Transportation Employment at UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington, Seattle, WA