Skip to content International Student Council Iowa State University Menu Home Team Executive Team Committees About Us Beyond Borders Green Dot Member Organizations Scroll down to content Posts Posted on April 20, 2022April 21, 2022 Application Process for ISC Fall 2022! Hello Cyclone Family! World Cuisine 2019 The International Student Council is a great opportunity for you to be part of an organization that works closely with Iowa State University, the International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO), and a large number of Multicultural Student Organizations on campus. We promote and showcase international diversity and culture here at Iowa State by collaborating with a multitude of International / multicultural student organizations to organize events such as International Week, International Food Fair, World Soccer Tournament. We also host events and lectures shedding light on international humanitarian issues. In addition, we work closely with the International Student Advisory Board (ISAB) and the International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) to represent the voice of international students on campus. If you are enthusiastic and passionate to learn about different cultures and work together with students from many different parts of the world, this is definitely for YOU! Eligibility: All Iowa State students in good standing with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 for undergraduates and 3.0 for graduates students are eligible to apply. You DO NOT have to be an International Student to join! Application: https://forms.gle/QmX6cuR3kvKpMZUH9 Posted on March 2, 2022April 13, 2022 2022 ISU International Student Council Scholarship! ISC’s annual international student scholarship is now open! Four international students who apply will be awarded $1,000 scholarships. To apply, check out this link: Link to the form! For any questions, please email: isc_exec@iastate.edu Latest Events Application Process for ISC Fall 2022! April 20, 2022 2022 ISU International Student Council Scholarship! March 2, 2022 About A platform that ensures and enhances communication and cooperation between the International Community, the ISU community, and the Ames community. Find Us Social Media Instagram Facebook ISU Webpage Address Office Space A West Student Office Space Memorial Union Iowa State University Ames, IA 50014 Email isc_exec@iastate.edu Proudly powered by WordPress ©2020 International Student Council