Skip to main content Integrated Service Center Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Sign in to Workday Contact Us Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Enter search text Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Note: This is a printed version of https://isc.uw.edu/your-benefits/dependent-verification. Please visit this page on the ISC website to ensure you're referencing the most current information. Integrated Service Center Menu Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Integrated Service Center Your Benefits Dependent Verification Dependent Verification Last updated Tuesday, March 29, 2022 When enrolling dependents in your medical and/or dental coverage, you are required to provide documentation that proves a dependent’s relationship to you. Per Washington State Health Care Authority (HCA) policy, only certain types of documents qualify as valid “dependent verification.” Carefully review this page to determine exactly what type(s) of proof documents you need to provide during enrollment. This documentation is uploaded to (or “attached in”) Workday during the enrollment process. Read This First… Submit early! In order for your enrollment selections to be successfully processed, you must provide valid dependent verification documentation prior to the enrollment deadline. The earlier you submit your changes, the more time the ISC has to reach out to you with any follow-up questions or if documentation is missing. Benefit enrollment windows usually have a hard deadline, and there may not be a grace period. All documents must be in English. Documents in a foreign language must include a notarized, translated copy prepared by a professional translator. If enrolling a spouse, depending on the document(s) you upload, you may also need to note your marriage date in Workday. Please do not drop off, fax or mail your dependent verification documents to the ISC. Unless advised otherwise by the ISC, all dependent verification documentation must be uploaded/attached in Workday. Documentation Details Disclaimer The information below is adapted for UW employees from the HCA’s Dependent Verification page. The HCA is the final arbiter in matters related to dependent verification. Select the appropriate box for information about the documents relevant to your dependent enrollment scenario(s). Documents Needed To Enroll Your Spouse When enrolling a spouse as a dependent, you will need to upload one of the following documents (or, where indicated, document combinations) in Workday: Document type Important considerations If married filing jointly, a copy of your most recent year’s federal tax return which lists your spouse’s name. This is usually the first page of your Form 1040. Before uploading the document to Workday, be sure to cover up/hide any financial information (such as account numbers, wage amounts, etc.) it may contain. Only the first page of the 1040 is necessary to upload. If only enrolling your spouse (and no other dependent), either the IRS e-file Signature Authorization (Form 8879) or U.S. Individual Income Tax Transmittal for an IRS e-file Return (Form 8453) are acceptable, provided both your and your spouse’s names are indicated on the form. If simultaneously enrolling your spouse and a child/children as dependents, and your tax return lists all of their names, you only need to upload one copy of the document. If married filing separately, copies of both your and your spouse’s most recently filed federal tax returns. This is usually the first page of your respective Form 1040. Before uploading the documents to Workday, be sure to cover up/hide any financial information (such as account numbers, wage amounts, etc.) they may contain. Only the first page of the 1040 is necessary to upload. A copy of your marriage certificate –PLUS– Proof of common residence from within the last six months (such as a copy of last month’s utility bill)* The utility bill you provide must list both your and your spouse’s names. A copy of your marriage certificate –PLUS– Proof of financial interdependency from within the last six months (such as last month’s shared bank statement)* Before uploading the document to Workday, be sure to cover up/hide any financial information it may contain. A copy of your Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) registration. A copy of your valid J-1, J-2, or H4 visa issued by the U.S. Government. *If you are enrolling your spouse during Open Enrollment or in December 2021 (with their coverage becoming effective 1/1/2022) AND are within six months of your marriage date, only the copy of your marriage certificate is required. Documents Needed To Enroll Your SRDP or Legal Union Partner When enrolling a state-registered domestic partner (SRDP)* or legal union partner as a dependent, you will need to upload the following documents in Workday: A completed Declaration of Tax Status form. -AND- One of the following documents (or, where indicated, document combinations): Document type (choose one) Important considerations Proof of common residence from within the last six months (such as a copy of last month’s utility bill) –PLUS– a copy of your certificate/card of state-registered domestic partnership or legal union. For benefit changes taking effect before 1/1/2020, if within two years of state-registered domestic partnership, or establishment of a legal union as defined in statute, only the certificate/card of state-registered domestic partnership or legal union is required. Proof of financial interdependency from within the last six months (such as last month’s shared bank statement) –PLUS– a copy of your certificate/card of state-registered domestic partnership or legal union. Before uploading the document to Workday, be sure to cover up/hide any financial information it may contain. Valid J-1, J-2, or H4 visa issued by the U.S. Government. *Note: Domestic partnerships outside of Washington State require HCA approval, which may result in additional enrollment processing time. Documents Needed To Enroll Your Child/Children When enrolling a child/children as a dependent(s), you will need to upload one of the following documents (or, where indicated, document combinations) in Workday: Document type (choose one) Important considerations A copy of your recent year’s federal tax return which lists your child’s/children’s name(s). This is usually the first page of your Form 1040. Only the first page of the 1040 is necessary to upload. Before uploading the document to Workday, be sure to cover up/hide any financial information (such as account numbers, wage amounts, etc.) it may contain. If enrolling more than one child, and your tax return lists all of their names, you only need to upload one copy of the document. If simultaneously enrolling a child/children and your spouse as dependents, and your tax return lists all of their names, you only need to upload one copy of the document. A copy of each child’s birth certificate, showing the name of the parent who is the subscriber, the subscriber’s spouse, or the subscriber’s state-registered domestic partner. The “filing receipt” for the birth certificate is not considered valid verification documentation. The birth certificate must contain the child’s full name as well as the parent(s)’ name(s). If the dependent is your stepchild – In addition to the birth certificate, you must also upload verification documentation for your spouse, even if you’re not enrolling them in PEBB insurance coverage. This means you will need to also upload one of the documents listed in the Documents Needed To Enroll Your Spouse section, above. If the dependent is your domestic partner’s child – In addition to the birth certificate, you will also need to upload: a completed Declaration of Tax Status form -AND- one of the documents listed in the Documents Needed To Enroll Your State-Registered Domestic Partner or Legal Union Partner section, above. A copy of each child’s hospital certificate with the child’s footprints on it, showing the name of the parent who is the subscriber, the subscriber’s spouse, or the subscriber’s state-registered domestic partner. The hospital certificate must contain the child’s full name as well as the parent(s)’ name(s). If the dependent is your stepchild – In addition to the hospital certificate, you must also upload verification documentation for your spouse, even if you’re not enrolling them in PEBB insurance coverage. This means you will need to also upload one of the documents listed in the Documents Needed To Enroll Your Spouse section, above. If the dependent is your domestic partner’s child – In addition to the hospital certificate, you will also need to upload: a completed Declaration of Tax Status form -AND- one of the documents listed in the Documents Needed To Enroll Your State-Registered Domestic Partner or Legal Union Partner section, above. A copy of each child’s birth verification letter sent by the hospital. The birth verification letter must contain the child’s full name as well as the parent(s)’ name(s). A copy of each child’s certificate or decree of adoption. An adoption placement document must have both the child’s name and the parents’ name(s). A copy of each child’s court-ordered parenting plan. A copy of each child’s National Medical Support Notice. Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) registration. Valid J-2 visa issued by U.S. Government. To enroll an extended dependent child: Visit the Life Event: Newly Eligible Extended Dependent page for details. To enroll a disabled child above age 26 If your dependent child is turning age 26 and you are submitting initial certification for the first time, please follow these steps within 60 days of your child turning 26: Download and complete the Employee/Enrollment Change (PDF) form. Mail or email (preferred) the completed Employee/Enrollment Change form to the ISC. Download and complete Sections 1, 2, and 3 of the Certification of a Child with a Disability (PDF) form. Send the Certification of a Child with a Disability form to your dependent’s medical provider/physician so they can complete Section 4. Your dependent’s medical provider/physician will return the completed form to you. Mail the completed Certification of a Child with a Disability form to your health plan, using the contact information provided on page 2 (Section D) of the form. Your health plan should, in turn, send the completed form to the Washington State Health Care Authority (HCA) for review and approval. Please Note: The Washington State Health Care Authority (HCA) will need to review and approve your completed Certification of a Child with a Disability form. Approval or denial information will be communicated to you directly from the HCA by a letter mailed to your home address. You may need to recertify your dependent’s disability with the HCA; the HCA will communicate information about that procedure to you at the mailing address you have listed in Workday. Definitions Qualified Dependent All dependents being enrolled in a PEBB medical or dental plan must meet the HCA’s definition of a qualified dependent. Relationship Types Dependent relationships are defined in the table below; see WAC 182-12-260 for additional details. Relationship Definition Spouse Includes your legal spouse, or your tax-qualified State-Registered Domestic Partner Child(ren) Includes your biological or adopted child(ren), tax-qualified Stepchild(ren) Includes your Spouse’s or tax-qualified State-Registered Domestic Partner’s child(ren) that you have not legally adopted Partner Your non-tax qualified State Registered Domestic Partner (Partner) Partner’s Child(ren) The non-tax qualified child(ren) of your State Registered Domestic Partner State-Registered Domestic Partner Defined in RCW 26.60.020(1) and substantially equivalent legal unions from other jurisdictions as defined in RCW 26.60.090. Tax-Qualified vs. Non-tax qualified state-registered domestic partner/children is determined from Internal Revenue Code IRC Section 152, as modified by IRC Section 105(b). The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) provides assistance at www.irs.gov. Extended Dependent Defined by the HCA in the Extended Dependent Certification form. Disabled Dependent Defined by the HCA in the Certification of a Child with a Disability form. Questions? Understanding what qualifies as valid dependent verification can be confusing. If, after reviewing this page, you still have questions, please feel free to contact the ISC for assistance - we're here to help! Contact Info & Resource Links University of Washington Contact Information UW Tower, Floor O-2 ischelp@uw.edu ISC Quick Links Sign In to Workday About the ISC Contact the ISC Translation Disclaimer HR Departments UW HR Academic HR Medical Centers UW Resources MyUW UW Homepage SafeCampus UW IT UW Transportation Employment at UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington, Seattle, WA