Skip to main content Integrated Service Center Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Sign in to Workday Contact Us Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Select Languageአማርኛ (Amharic)简体中文 (Chinese)EnglishFilipinoHmong日本語 (Japanese)ភាសាខ្មែរ (Khmer)한국어 (Korean)ພາສາລາວ (Lao)Españolไทย (Thai)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Enter search text Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Note: This is a printed version of https://isc.uw.edu/your-pay-taxes/year-end-tax-resources. Please visit this page on the ISC website to ensure you're referencing the most current information. Integrated Service Center Menu Sign In To Workday Your Benefits Plan Choices Enrolling in Benefits (For New/Newly-Eligible Employees) Changing Your Benefits Ending Your Benefits Leaving the UW Retiring Dependent Verification Your Time & Absence Time Entry Time Off Recording Holiday Time Off Using Your Personal Holiday Leave of Absence Summer Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations: What To Do In Workday Your Pay & Taxes Paydays Paychecks/Payslips Your Paycheck and Payslip Direct Deposit Overpayments Underpayments For Foreign Nationals Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance Payment & Tax Information for Foreign Nationals Taxes Opting Out of Paper Tax Forms Tax Withholding Information For US Citizens Year End Tax Resources Other Services Employment Verification Requests Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Certification Forms Using Workday New to Workday? Anti-Phishing Precautions Managing Your Personal and Work Information in Workday Supported Web Browsers Using Duo 2FA With Workday Workday for Managers Workday Releases Workday Training Support Resources Getting Help How to Get Workday Help Resources For Former Employees Tips to Help Us Help You HR/Payroll Glossary Quick Guides and Job Aids User Guide Library Video Library Workday Training Admins' Corner Admin Essentials Admins’ Homepage Admins' News HCM Service Partners Tracking the Progress of a Business Process Workday Community of Practice Your Tasks This Month Pay Resources Payroll and Workday Approval Deadline Calendar Avoiding Underpayments and Overpayments Year End Payroll and Tax Deadlines REASON CODES Compensation Change Reasons and Approvals One-Time Payment Reasons Period Activity Pay Reasons Reports "Campus Workday Reports" Microsoft Teams Space Payroll-Impacting Reports by Deadline Payroll-Impacting Reports by Security Role Reports 101 Reports Catalog Report Deep Dives Request Forms Delegation New PCA Code Retro/On-Demand Payment Security Role Change Sup Org Changes Workday Reports Help Security Roles INDIVIDUAL ROLES Academic Partner HCM Initiate 2 HR Partner I-9 Coordinator Time & Absence Approver Time & Absence Initiate All Security Roles Delegations Security Roles 101 View-Only Roles Staffing Resources E-Verify Hire Wizard Job Profiles Journey Maps Sup Orgs and Staffing Models Termination Reason Codes Worker Type and Sub-Type Decision Trees STAFFING EVENTS For Academic Personnel For Staff For Students Time & Absence Resources Leaves of Absence – Available Tracking Time Off Types Off Quarter Hiatus for Academic Personnel Suspended Operations How-To’s Time Off Considerations Time Off Types for General Use Time Off Usage Hierarchy Tracking Holidays in Workday Integrated Service Center Your Pay & Taxes Year End Tax Resources Year End Tax Resources Last updated Friday, April 29, 2022 On This Page: Accessing Your Current Year Tax Forms Accessing Prior Years’ Tax Forms Prepare For Tax Season: Verify You Have Designated a Mailing Address in Workday Tax Forms Requiring Annual Renewal Resources For International Students Year-End Tax FAQs Accessing Your Current Year Tax Forms Tax Form How to Access It More Info IRS Form W-2 Access Your W-2 About IRS Form W-2 IRS Form 1042-S Access Your 1042-S About IRS Form 1042-S IRS Form 1099-R Access Your 1099-R About IRS Form 1099-R IRS Form 1095 (A/B/C) About IRS Form 1095 About IRS Form 1095 UW Stipend Letter Access Your UW Stipend Letter About UW Stipend Letter IRS Form 1098-T Download at Student Fiscal Services’ website Student Fiscal Services Office IRS Form 1099-Misc Contact ten99@uw.edu Procurement Services Need tax forms from a prior year(s)? Access your W-2s, 1099-Rs, and UW Stipend Letters from 2017 forward in Workday – follow the relevant link in the How To Access It column above for instructions. For information about accessing tax forms from prior to 2017, refer to the Accessing Prior Year Tax Forms section, below. Prepare For Tax Season Verify You Have Designated a Mailing Address in Workday All employees should confirm and/or update their Mailing address in Workday to ensure timely and accurate delivery of tax documents, such as your W-2. You may be assessed state withholding tax; Washington state residents do not pay state withholding tax. Tax forms sent by USPS mail with undeliverable addresses are returned to the ISC; returned tax forms are not re-mailed. It’s the employee’s responsibility to either access their tax form online through Workday or contact the ISC to request a replacement tax form. Resources For International Students These resources can help International Students with filing their personal tax returns: UW International Student Services’ Tax Information & Workshops page, which includes information about using Glacier Tax Prep (GTP) software. Within GTP, you may find the “Glacier Tax Prep System Tutorial” and “Welcome to the US Tax System” videos useful. UW International Student Services’ Frequently Asked Questions pages The ISC’s Foreign Nationals Payment & Tax Information page Tax Forms Requiring Annual Renewal IRS Form W-4 Your W-4 Exemption status is only valid for one calendar year. If you previously claimed exempt from Federal Withholding tax and wish to claim exempt for the new year, update your withholding information in Workday no later than February 15. IRS Form 673 IRS Form 673 (PDF) applies only to US citizens working overseas (and not resident aliens). Note for Foreign Nationals Tax treaty eligibility paperwork must be renewed for your federal taxation to continue to be appropriately reduced. Visit the Getting Started in Glacier Tax Compliance page for details. Year-End Tax FAQs How do I know which tax form I should receive? The ISC is responsible for sending out three different IRS tax forms. Form W-2s are sent to UW employees who received some form of wage or compensation in the prior calendar year. Form 1042-Ss are sent to UW employees who are foreign nationals who have claimed a tax treaty or code exception to taxation. Form 1099-Rs are sent to UW retirees who receive RET payments directly from the University of Washington (not Washington State Department of Retirement Systems). Note that UW Foreign National employees who live and work outside of the United States (and who have submitted the relevant paperwork) will not receive any United States tax forms related to their work performed overseas. For more details, visit the Foreign Nationals Working Outside the US section of the Foreign Nationals Payment & Tax Information page. Where can I find my 1098-T? 1098-Ts are distributed through Student Fiscal Services (SFS). You can download your 1098-T tax form at their website. What is the difference between a W-2 and a W-4? The Form W-2 is the tax form sent by the employer to both the IRS and the employee reporting an employee’s earned wages and other salary information, as well as the amount of taxes the employee had withheld from each paycheck in the prior calendar year. Employees use the information found on the Form W-2 when filing their tax return. Employees use the W-4 to indicate how much federal withholding tax the employer should deduct from each paycheck; the Form W-4 is filled out by employees, usually during the onboarding process. Employees determine their own amount of withholding. Can I change my withholding elections? Yes, you can update your withholding elections in Workday at any time. For step-by-step guidance, refer to the Update Federal Withholding Elections User Guide. Any changes you make will go into effect immediately, though depending on where the University is in the payroll cycle, the change may not be reflected in your paycheck until the second pay period after you made changes. For more information about withholding calculations, visit the IRS website: IRS Withholding Tables Frequently Asked Questions. Why did my net take-home change on my first paycheck in January? Typically any new deduction changes (eg, increased benefit premium amounts, changes in FSA and/or DCAP contributions, etc) will be reflected in the first paycheck of a new tax year. Additionally, if an employee had met the Social Security max limitation in the prior tax year, and therefore Social Security tax payments had stopped upon meeting that limit, the employee may notice their Social Security deductions starting up again in January. Changes to IRS tax tables may also result in changes to an employee’s federal withholding, which would be reflected in the first paycheck of a new tax year. TurboTax says I overpaid Social Security and Medicare taxes; what should I do? You will want to verify you entered the correct amounts from your W-2s into the correct fields in TurboTax. People often incorrectly enter the amount from Box 1 on the W-2 into their Social Security Gross and/or Medicare Gross fields in TurboTax or other tax-help software; make sure you entered the amount from Box 3 for Social Security and the amount from Box 5 for Medicare. The Social Security and Medicare amounts on your W-2 are auto-calculated using federally mandated percentages. I’ve already maxed out my Social Security at another employer; do I still have to pay it at the UW? Yes. Because the University of Washington has an entirely different Tax ID number, you will have to pay Social Security. Your CPA or other tax advisor may have information about recouping excess Social Security contributions. Are there any Tax Considerations for Qualified Domestic Partners (QDPs)? Federal tax law changed in 2013 when the Internal Revenue Service and the US Department of Treasury ruled that same-sex couples, who were legally married in jurisdictions that recognized their marriages, were to be treated as married for federal tax purposes. These couples may also be known as Qualified Domestic Partners (QDPs) under Washington State law. This ruling applies only to couples who are considered legally married and does not apply to Registered Domestic Partnerships. If you are in a Registered Domestic Partnership, and your partner and/or child(ren) do not qualify as eligible dependents under IRC 152 (PDF), the UW must report the cost of the insurance that UW provides for these dependents and the insurance contributions you make as wages on your IRS Form W-2 (displayed in box 1, 3 and 5). This is called “imputed wages.” The UW determines IRC 152 eligibility based on the information you provided on your Declaration of Tax Status form (PDF). This form is completed at the time you enroll in a PEBB health insurance plan, or at any time you change your enrollment due to a qualifying Life Event. If you determine that your Declaration of Tax Status was incorrect for the prior tax year or requires updating at this time, contact the ISC. For more information about Qualified Domestic Partner tax status, refer to the Dependent Verification page. Accessing Your W-2 Your Form W-2 is usually made available in Workday* after the first payday in January. Open/expand the appropriate menu below for step-by-step instructions for accessing your W-2 in Workday. Current employees working in the US Log into Workday using the Sign in to Workday link at the top right of this page. In Workday, select the Pay worklet. Select the My Tax Documents button. Select the View/Print button under “Employee Copy,” then select Notify Me Later on the “Your request is being processed” window. (Please note: you may need to “allow pop-ups from Workday” if your web browser blocks pop-ups). Your W-2 will then be delivered to your Notifications in Workday (select the “bell” icon at the upper right corner). Obtaining an Accessible W-2 An accessible version of your W-2 is also available; to access it, if you haven’t already done so, you must first configure your Workday preferences to display accessible forms. Follow these steps to both update your Workday preferences (steps 2-6) and access your accessible W-2 (steps 7-9): Log into Workday using the Sign in to Workday link at the top right of this page. In Workday, from the Cloud icon at the top right of the screen, select My Account. Select Change Preferences. In the screen that opens, under the Account Preferences header, select the Simplified View checkbox. Select OK. Select the “W” icon in the upper left corner of the screen to return to the Workday homepage. Select the Pay worklet. Under the View heading, select My Tax Documents. Select the Accessible Form button to open your accessible W-2. Current employees working outside of the US If your work location is outside of the United States, follow these steps to access your tax documents in Workday: Log into Workday using the Sign in to Workday link at the top right of this page. In Workday, from the Cloud icon at the top right of the screen, select View Profile. Select the Pay tab on the left of the screen, then select the Tax Documents tab on the top of the screen. Select the View/Print button under Employee Copy, and then select Notify Me Later on the “Your request is being processed” window. (Please note: you may need to “allow pop-ups from Workday” if your web browser blocks pop-ups). Your W-2 will then be delivered to your Notifications in Workday (select the “bell” icon at the upper right corner). If you have a Certificate of Foreign Status, for additional guidance, refer to the Year-End Information for Foreign Nationals section of the Foreign Nationals Payment & Tax Information page. Former Employees If you no longer work at the University, you can still access your W-2s. However, the way you will access them depends on how long it has been since you were a UW employee. Visit the Resources For Former Employees page for guidance. Questions about your W-2? Review the FAQs on the About IRS Form W-2 page – your question may already be addressed there! *Paper forms for active employees will be distributed on the second payday in January; paper forms for separated or inactive employees will be mailed to the home address listed in Workday by the end of January. Accessing Your 1099-R Instructions for Current Employees From the Pay worklet in Workday, select the Other Tax Documents (1099R & Stipend Letter) button found under “External Links.” Once in Legacy ESS, use the Tax Forms link on the left side of the screen, then select Print Tax Forms. Instructions for Retirees From the Personal Information worklet in Workday, select the Other Tax Documents (1099R & Stipend Letter) button found under “External Links.” Retirees who do not have access to Workday can instead directly access Legacy ESS here. Once in Legacy ESS, use the Tax Forms link on the left side of the screen, then select Print Tax Forms. Accessing Your UW Stipend Letter From the Pay worklet in Workday, select the Other Tax Documents (1099R & Stipend Letter) button found under “External Links.” Once in Legacy ESS, use the Tax Forms link on the left side of the screen, then select Print Tax Forms. Accessing Your 1042-S Instructions for individuals with UW Glacier Tax Compliance accounts: Log into the Glacier Nonresident Alien Tax Compliance System From the Menu, select I would like to view/print my Form 1042-S Instructions for individuals without UW Glacier Tax Compliance accounts: Download and complete the Request for Paper Tax Form Replacement (PDF) Fax the completed form (don’t ever email any form that contains your Social Security number) to the ISC at 206-543-8137; or, alternatively, drop off the form in person at the ISC. Note that the request for paper Form W-2s can take up to 48 hours to process. Accessing Prior Years’ Tax Forms Electronic Forms Tax forms (W-2, 1099-R, and UW Stipend Letter) from 2017 forward can be accessed in Workday. Refer to the table at the top of this page for links to the relevant instructions. Tax forms (W-2, 1099-R, UW Stipend Letter, and 1042-S) from 2012-2016 can be accessed in Legacy ESS. In order to sign into Workday or Legacy ESS, you will need both your UW NetID credentials and Duo, UW’s two-factor authentication (2FA) solution. Note For Former Employees You are eligible for Duo through the remainder of the year in which you left the University, plus three years afterward. To enroll in Duo, visit UW-IT’s Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) page; if you are no longer within the Duo eligibility window, refer to “Requesting Paper Tax Forms,” below. If you forgot your UW NetID and/or password, or need help using Duo, please contact UW-IT for assistance. Once in Legacy ESS, use the Tax Forms link on the left side of the screen, then select Print Tax Forms. Go to Legacy ESS Requesting Paper Tax Forms If you are no longer eligible for Duo, or for any other reason can’t access Workday or Legacy ESS, refer to the Resources For Former Employees page for guidance. As a reminder, the ISC cannot provide tax or financial planning advice. Go Paperless! The ISC encourages all employees to opt out of receiving paper W-2 tax forms, and to instead access their tax information online through Workday. Online tax forms are legal documents that meet all the same IRS requirements as paper forms, and are available two weeks before paper tax forms. Contact Info & Resource Links University of Washington Contact Information UW Tower, Floor O-2 ischelp@uw.edu ISC Quick Links Sign In to Workday About the ISC Contact the ISC Translation Disclaimer HR Departments UW HR Academic HR Medical Centers UW Resources MyUW UW Homepage SafeCampus UW IT UW Transportation Employment at UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington, Seattle, WA