Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Virtual Visit Give a Gift Course Login Wiki University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Block I logo School of Information Sciences Menu Visit What is an iSchool? Request Information Upcoming Events Tuition & Financial Support Recruitment & Admissions Staff iSchool Ambassadors Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Advising Course Catalog People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Staff Committees School Directory Research Areas Projects Vision Services Showcase Research Fellows Scholars-in-Residence Videos Engage Hire an Intern or Full-Time Employee Host a Practicum Mentor a Student Give a Gift Business Intelligence Group Alumni Student Life Academic Support Center Student Development Opportunities Student Organizations Convocation Practicum & Career Courses Career Support Student Affairs Staff Help Desk News & Events News Feed Events Calendar Publications Upcoming Events Lectures Awards Our School iSchool Response to COVID-19 iSchool at a Glance History Data and Reporting Building Facilities Diversity & Inclusion Job Openings Contact Us Search Search this website Featured Carousel Carousel Item 0 Carousel Item 1 Carousel Item 2 Carousel Item 3 Carousel Item 4 The Power of Information We educate leaders in the information sciences who impact their communities. Select Image to show show image 1 show image 2 show image 3 show image 4 show image 5 The Power of Information We inspire advocates for information access, intellectual freedom, and inclusion. Select Image to show show image 1 show image 2 show image 3 show image 4 show image 5 The Power of Information We advance research at the intersection of people, information, and technology. Select Image to show show image 1 show image 2 show image 3 show image 4 show image 5 The Power of Information The iSchool fosters interdisciplinary, human-centered innovation. Select Image to show show image 1 show image 2 show image 3 show image 4 show image 5 The Power of Information Our individualized, top-ranked degree programs transform lives. Select Image to show show image 1 show image 2 show image 3 show image 4 show image 5 Become an information specialist. BS in Information Sciences Create data-driven solutions. BS in Information Sciences + Data Sciences Join the #1 ranked program. MS in Library and Information Science Analyze information solutions. MS in Information Management Collaborate with renowned faculty. PhD in Information Sciences Explore all programs People in the news Read about how our people shape the future of information. Ian Brooks Research Scientist Brooks gave a keynote talk at the West Africa Conference on Digital Public Goods and Cybersecurity. READ more about Ian Brooks Ly Dinh Doctoral candidate Dinh successfully defended her dissertation on May 19. She is advised by Associate Professor Diesner. READ more about Ly Dinh Jingrui He Associate Professor He has received a grant from C3.ai DTI for a new project that seeks to detect and predict insider threats. READ more about Jingrui He Jessie Chin Assistant Professor Chin is leading a project to improve the health of patients with kidney failure. READ more about Jessie Chin Julie Yen Yen (MS/LIS '07) believes in giving back and sharing opportunities, which is why she is a loyal donor to the iSchool Annual Fund. READ more about Julie Yen Jessica Cheng Doctoral candidate Cheng successfully defended her dissertation on May 25. She is advised by Professor Ludäscher. READ more about Jessica Cheng We are information scientists and professionals. Our stories demonstrate our impact on the world. Prepare for a bright future . . . … Join our vibrant, globally connected community and engage with talented peers, expert faculty, and alumni leaders. Learn more about the iSchool … wherever you are. Benefit from all the iSchool has to offer regardless of where you are. Explore student life Recent News Thursday May 26 Cheng defends dissertation Wednesday May 25 Student award recipients announced Tuesday May 24 Brooks presents keynote at West African conference Tuesday May 24 New project to help identify and predict insider threats Monday May 23 iSchool students present their research at Urbana City Council meeting READmore news Upcoming Events Friday June 10, 2022 2022 Summer Getaway: Media Literacy 8:30 AM - 4:00 PM Saturday June 11, 2022 2022 Summer Getaway: Media Literacy 8:30 AM - 4:00 PM Saturday June 25, 2022 Downs Intellectual Freedom Award Reception 5:30 - 7:00 PM Sunday June 26, 2022 iSchool ALA Alumni Reception & ISAA Annual Meeting 5:00 - 7:00 PM VIEWall events #iSchoolUI on Twitter Don't forget today is your last day to register for the 2022 Summer Getaway for a discounted rate of $50/day. After… https://t.co/vxuegJK9VV @iSchoolUI Today 8:51 AM Congratulations to doctoral candidate Jessica Cheng for successfully defending her dissertation! #iSchoolUI Read mo… https://t.co/TZI44fKoFs @iSchoolUI May 26 4:32 PM Each year, the #iSchoolUI recognizes a group of outstanding students for their achievement in academics as well as… https://t.co/9MxfIZ6SEf @iSchoolUI May 26 12:11 PM #iSchoolUI Associate Professor Jingrui He has received a grant from @C3DTI for a new project that seeks to detect a… https://t.co/gMjb1GxD6A @iSchoolUI May 24 4:38 PM Ian Brooks, #iSchoolUI research scientist Center for Health Informatics director, gave a keynote talk at the West A… https://t.co/4vexBwgcvy @iSchoolUI May 24 3:46 PM Take the next step. Applynow Requestinformation View all programs Meetour faculty, staff, and students Submita class note Back to top University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School of Information Sciences 501 E. Daniel St. MC-493 Champaign, IL 61820-6211 Voice (217) 333-3280 Fax (217) 244-3302 ischool@illinois.edu quick links School Directory Virtual Visit Give a Gift Course Login iSchool Wiki IS Virtual Library campus resources Privacy Notice Campus Directory Graduate College University Library University of Illinois ©2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Settings