Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Article 1 of 4, Serving the underserved MSIM students study broadband needs of disabled users Read More Read More About Serving the underserved Article 2 of 4, Time savers Capstone team helps business turn a 20-minute process into a 1-minute task Read More Read More About Time savers Article 3 of 4, Putting stories in motion MLIS Capstone project has kids reading and moving Read More Read More About Putting stories in motion Article 4 of 4, Helping kids tell their stories MLIS Capstone team gives marginalized youths a chance to control the narrative Read More Read More About Helping kids tell their stories Previous Next Our Programs At the iSchool, we prepare information leaders. We research information challenges and design solutions that improve people's lives. We make information work. Informatics Apply your passion for analyzing and solving problems as you learn how to design, build and secure information systems. Informatics Informatics Master of Library & Information Science On campus or online, develop the skills you need to thrive in any knowledge-intensive industry. Master of Library & Information Science Master of Library & Information Science Master of Science in Information Management Learn the skills you need to become a sought-after information expert. Early-career and mid-career options. Master of Science in Information Management Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. in Information Science Make a difference through research, teaching and service to the community. Ph.D. in Information Science Ph.D. in Information Science Why earn your MSIM? Early-career or mid-career, online or on campus — we meet students where they are. Hear from recent alumni. Watch the video We Make Information Work We help people and organizations use information to achieve their potential. The iSchool is a home for innovators and leaders who want to harness information for positive change. Our graduates are adept at designing, refining and building information systems attuned to people’s needs. Learn More about We Make Information Work What is Informatics? Our students explain the major and describe what it's like to be part of the iSchool community. Watch the video iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org © 2022 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Watermark Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close