Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Page Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Master of Library and Information Science Informatics MLIS Academics Admissions Degree Options Careers Tuition, Aid & Scholarships MSIM Ph.D. Academics Admissions Committees Scholarships & Funding People More Options Resources: Advising & Support Capstone Projects Upcoming Info Sessions Videos: Alumni at Work Admissions mailing list The library science master's program at the University of Washington is ranked #2 in the U.S. The UW iSchool offers residential and online modes. Follow your passion MLIS graduates Aydin Kwan and Le Button designed a Queer Comics Database for nonprofit Geeks Out as their Capstone project in 2018. At the University of Washington Information School, we’re educating the innovators and leaders of the library and information world. Our world-class faculty will help you develop the skills you need to play an essential role in any knowledge-intensive industry. With your Master of Library and Information Science degree in hand, you’ll have the practical skills to advance your career and the confidence to make bold decisions as libraries evolve and serve the public in a rapidly changing landscape. The iSchool approach The MLIS program is designed to prepare you for an array of experiences at diverse organizations and companies. Our core curriculum emphasizes our values of diversity, inclusion and social justice. Courses in knowledge organization theory, design thinking, and information ethics create a framework and academic foundation on which you can build throughout your career. Electives give you the flexibility to explore your interests more deeply or study a subject completely new to you. Take your understanding deeper through an independent study or Directed Fieldwork by designing learning outcomes specific to your professional goals. As a student in the iSchool's MLIS program, ranked No. 2 nationally by U.S. News & World Report, you will gain: An integrated understanding of information concepts, theories, processes, models and research with a focus on the needs of people who use the information services, systems and resources, and the technology that supports them. An appreciation of the varied roles, contexts and settings in which information work occurs and their interrelationships. Awareness of important and trending information issues and the ability to discuss the social impact of these trends. Professional skills and experiences important for entry-level positions, and a deeper understanding that will take your career to the next level. The ability to be an innovative and strategic thinker in solving contemporary information problems. Learn more about our key student learning outcomes. Residential or Online Immerse yourself in the MLIS program on campus or pursue your studies online, on your own schedule. It’s all up to you. Residential and online students take the same courses and earn the same Master of Library and Information Science degree. Learn more about these degree options. Learn more about the statistics for graduation rates and length of time to degree for each program mode. What’s Your Next Career? Your MLIS degree will open doors to a satisfying career in which you can make a positive impact. iSchool career advisors provide targeted programming to help you achieve your goals. Our recent graduates have moved on to work as librarians, metadata specialists, information architects, web content managers, taxonomists and more. Learn more about potential careers with your MLIS. Program Video Connect & Learn More Upcoming information sessions Admissions information Application deadlines Contact an iSchool advisor Join our mailing list View more MLIS videos on YouTube Program Brochure Resources: Advising & Support Capstone Projects Upcoming Info Sessions Videos: Alumni at Work Admissions mailing list Article 1 of 4, Helping kids tell their stories MLIS Capstone team gives marginalized youths a chance to control the narrative Read More Read More About Helping kids tell their stories Article 2 of 4, Spotlight on Native stories Native American Read-In celebrates storytelling, art and culture Read More Read More About Spotlight on Native stories Article 3 of 4, 9 iSchool students among Husky 100 5 Informatics students, 3 MLIS and 1 Ph.D. recognized for leadership, impact Read More Read More About 9 iSchool students among Husky 100 Article 4 of 4, Law and order Law Librarianship student Kristin Glover is organizing a slice of UW history Read More Read More About Law and order Previous Next News MSIM students study broadband needs of disabled users Friday, May 27, 2022 Take a moment to consider Jane, a 32-year-old who was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis at age 23 and who recently gave birth to her first child. Jane lives on the first floor of a Long Island apartment building with her husband,... Read more Two-day hybrid Capstone gala event increases access to annual student showcase Friday, May 27, 2022 Hundreds of students, faculty, partners and friends attended the University of Washington Information School’s annual Capstone gala event on May 24 and 25. The two-night event featured nearly 200 Capstone projects from the... Read more Events Jun 2 12:30-2:30PM Dissertation Defense - Mingrui Zhang Zoom Jun 2 3:00-4:00PM Informatics Program Overview online Jun 2 6:30-7:30PM MSIM Mid-Career Q&A Zoom Jun 3 11:30-1:15PM Faculty Meeting Bloedel Hall iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org © 2022 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Watermark Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close