Skip to content Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Companies & Partners Give Today Academics Admissions & Aid Life at the iSchool Research Careers About Search for: Academics Admissions & Aid Life at the iSchool Research Careers About Search for: Academics Admissions & Aid Life at the iSchool Research Careers About Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Friends Give Today Search for: Home2022-05-26T14:41:08+00:00 Exploring the intersection of technology and humanity. We work, learn, and live in a digital information age. It drives our economy, our politics, and our education systems. The future will be shaped by those who understand and innovate in this environment. Who advocate for the underserved, design for the end user, and solve for the unsolvable. They’re diverse, imaginative, and driven to make change. They’re iSchoolers. how we’re pursuing anti-racism and inclusivity What You’ll Study. Undergraduate Programs Majors Applied Data Analytics Information Management & Technology Innovation, Society, & Technology Dual Degree Programs Dual Degree with Whitman School of Management Dual Degree with Newhouse School of Communications Minors Data Analytics Information Management & Technology Information Technology, Design, & Startups Master's Degree Programs Applied Data Science Information Systems Library and Information Science Library and Information Science: School Media Certificates of Advanced Study Cloud Management Data Science Enterprise Technology Leadership Information Security Management Information Technology Management Doctoral Programs PhD in Information Science and Technology DPS in Information Management Online Programs Master’s Degrees Applied Data Science Information Systems Library and Information Science Library and Information Science: School Media Doctoral Program Doctor of Professional Studies in Information Management Community Who you’ll meet. We’re a tightknit community, which means you’ll become friends and colleagues with fellow students, faculty, and staff. You’ll develop connections here that will last a lifetime. And you’ll become part of the broader Syracuse University Orange family. Meet Our Community India, iSchool, and Internships – Into Her Future in Information Heer Thaker G'22 found supportive faculty and a way to hone her skills at the iSchool. Research What you’ll explore. From cybersecurity to sustainability, misinformation to cloud computing, our faculty and students pursue leading-edge research across industries. Explore Research 0 Research centers and labs 0 Faculty and student publications in 2021 0m Grant funding awarded in 2021 The Future of Work: Using Information Technology to Work Smarter iSchool professors share how the future of work is rapidly changing with advances in process automation, artificial intelligence, and data collection. careers Where you’ll go. Your iSchool degree will open doors around the globe. From Fortune 500 companies to start-ups, our graduates pursue exciting careers that offer tremendous growth opportunities. Career Services 0 Average starting salary of last year’s undergraduate class 0% Employment rate within 6 months of graduation #0 Careers in our field are ranked the most in-demand and lucrative Nicole Osborne ’14 G’20 Named 2021 Generation Orange Award Recipient The award recognizes young alumni who have impacted campus and their communities through volunteerism and philanthropy on behalf of Syracuse University. News & Events April 13, 2022 Two Professors Earn Prestigious Teaching Award LaVerne Gray and Radhika Garg recognized for outstanding contributions to the students of the iSchool Read more May 18, 2022 A Q&A with Carsten Øesterlund Read more May 11, 2022 iSchool Graduate Lands a Job With One of The Big Four Read more May 4, 2022 Forging a FinTech Future at the iSchool Read more View all news View all events Begin today. Your future, starting now. Learn more about our programs. Apply. And join us. We can’t wait to welcome you. Our Programs Visit Campus Apply Today 343 Hinds Hall Syracuse University Syracuse, NY 13244 Academics Admissions & Aid Life at the iSchool Research Careers About Copyright © Syracuse University School of Information Studies Page load link By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Go to Top