Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Page Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Master of Science in Information Management Informatics MLIS MSIM Academics Admissions Degree Options Specializations Careers Tuition, Aid & Scholarships Ph.D. Academics Admissions Committees Scholarships & Funding People More Options Resources: Advising & Support Capstone Projects Upcoming Info Sessions Videos: Alumni at Work Admissions mailing list A master's in information management can specialize in data science, information security & other areas of expertise. Offered in Early-Career, Early-Career Accelerated and Mid-Career formats, both residential and online. Preparing information leaders As MSIM students, Amir Ali, Tiffany Ku and Kevin McCraney worked with the Seattle mayor's Innovation Advisory Council on their 2019 Capstone project. In the iSchool’s MSIM program, you’ll develop the skills to make information work. You’ll learn how to organize and analyze information, recognize and solve information problems, transform large datasets into useful insights, and lead information projects to transform organizations. The Case for Information Management The ability to leverage information assets is crucial in the modern business world. Organizations that can’t make the most of their information underperform and often fail. Information management draws on multiple fields, and is concerned with: The systems used to collect, manage, preserve, store and deliver information. The guiding principles that allow information to be available to the right people at the right time. The view that all information, both digital and physical, is an asset that requires proper management. The organizational and social contexts in which information exists. The critical analysis of the impact of information management practices on diversity, equity and inclusion. Organizations need people who have a deep understanding of how to leverage information to empower users at all levels. There’s strong demand for managers who can use information both as a competitive tool and as a means to create positive organizational and societal change. The MSIM Approach The MSIM program features a highly interdisciplinary approach to the study of information management, with the aim of developing strong practitioners in the field. Students learn to use information to set organizational strategy and improve productivity, and to help individuals make better use and sense of the information they encounter in their everyday lives. Early-Career or Mid-Career The MSIM Early-Career and Early-Career Accelerated options complement a bachelor’s degree in any academic discipline by opening new doors for career possibilities. For working professionals with five years or more of relevant professional experience, the Mid-Career option enables you to keep your current job while you pursue a master’s degree to advance your career. You can complete the Early-Career Accelerated or Mid-Career MSIM in one year, or take more time if you wish. Residential or Online You can immerse yourself in the MSIM program on campus in Seattle, Washington, or — new for 2021 — pursue your studies online. Residential and online students take the same courses and earn the same Master of Science in Information Management degree. Learn more about these degree options. 6 In-Demand Specializations Tailor your degree to your interests by choosing one or two specializations — Data Science, Business Intelligence, User Experience, Information Architecture, Program/Product Management & Consulting, or Information & Cyber Security. In whichever specialization you choose, your MSIM degree will put you in high demand when you graduate. Connect & Learn More Upcoming information sessions Admissions information and deadlines View application deadlines Contact an iSchool advisor Join our mailing list View more videos on our YouTube channel Program Brochure Resources: Advising & Support Capstone Projects Upcoming Info Sessions Videos: Alumni at Work Admissions mailing list News MSIM students study broadband needs of disabled users Friday, May 27, 2022 Take a moment to consider Jane, a 32-year-old who was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis at age 23 and who recently gave birth to her first child. Jane lives on the first floor of a Long Island apartment building with her husband,... Read more Two-day hybrid Capstone gala event increases access to annual student showcase Friday, May 27, 2022 Hundreds of students, faculty, partners and friends attended the University of Washington Information School’s annual Capstone gala event on May 24 and 25. The two-night event featured nearly 200 Capstone projects from the... Read more Events Jun 2 12:30-2:30PM Dissertation Defense - Mingrui Zhang Zoom Jun 2 3:00-4:00PM Informatics Program Overview online Jun 2 6:30-7:30PM MSIM Mid-Career Q&A Zoom Jun 3 11:30-1:15PM Faculty Meeting Bloedel Hall iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org © 2022 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Watermark Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close