Skip to main Menu Apply Now Business expand_more Business Degrees expand_more MBA Accounting Business Analytics Entrepreneurship Supply Chain Management Admissions Academics On-campus MBA Degree On-Campus Business MS Degrees Communications expand_more Communications Degrees expand_more Communications Communications Management Admissions Academics On-campus Communications Degrees Engineering expand_more Engineering Degrees expand_more Computer Science Computer Engineering Cybersecurity Admissions Academics On-campus Engineering Degrees Information Science expand_more Information Sciences Degrees expand_more Applied Data Science Information Systems Library Information Science LIS: School Media Advanced Certificates Admissions Academics On-campus Information Science Degrees Public Administration expand_more Public Administration Degrees expand_more Executive MPA Admissions Academics On-campus Public Administration Degrees Social Work expand_more Social Work Degrees expand_more MSW expand_more How to Become a Social Worker Part-time Benefits MSW Advanced Standing Admissions Academics On-campus Social Work Degrees Blog Apply Now Syracuse University / Information Science Degrees Online Information Science Master’s DegreesOnline Information Science Master’s DegreesOnline Information Science Master’s Degrees Request Information Next Step close Close Modal Request Information Help us get to know you better by filling out the brief form below. A member of our community will be in touch soon to connect and we will email you with information about the program. Next Step Use the Power of Information to Build a Better World Syracuse University’s School of Information Studies (iSchool) offers online information science master’s programs that prepare you to drive innovation in the digital information age. Through world-class online degrees delivered in a flexible and collaborative format, the iSchool prepares you to make an immediate impact on your organization. Master of Science in Applied Data Science Learn to apply insights from small and large datasets to make informed decisions in any organization. The interdisciplinary curriculum focuses on analytical skills to drive business strategies using data capture, visualization and mining. Explore the MS in Applied Data Science Master of Science in Information Systems Improve how organizations consume, manage and use information. The program is designed to help develop information management leaders who can leverage information systems that will benefit people and organizations alike. We also offer an MS in Information Systems for Executives for people with six or more years of relevant experience. Explore the MS in Information Systems Master of Science in Library and Information Science Accredited by the American Library Association (ALA), the MS in Library and Information Science prepares you to bridge the gap between people, information and technology in a broad range of settings. You will be prepared to make a positive impact on how communities access and use information. Explore the MS in Library and Information Science Master of Science in Library and Information Science: School Media The ALA-accredited MS in Library and Information Science with School Media specialization (MLIS: School Media) will prepare you to instruct children in grades pre-K through 12 in all areas of technology, literacy and fluency. Explore the MLIS: School Media Discover the iSchool For over 25 years, Syracuse University’s iSchool has delivered world-class online information science master’s programs and empowered students to collaborate with fellow tech professionals from around the world. Each program has been developed based on research about how online students actually learn best, with all coursework driven by our expert iSchool faculty members. Experience a Flexible Online Program Our online programs are designed for working professionals who travel frequently or can’t commute to class. That’s why we offer classes Monday to Thursday, 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. ET, and all coursework and live classes are accessible via our full-service mobile app. You’ll gain access to our Virtual Career Center and personalized career coaching. Visit our career services page to learn more. Attend Live, Online Classes Participate in live, face-to-face classes hosted via Zoom, designed to promote collaboration and networking. All live classes are recorded for later review and include features such as breakout rooms for group projects, dark mode for nighttime studying and adjustable video speed for reviewing lectures. Complete Self-Paced Coursework Complete weekly coursework on your own schedule that features high-quality video, interactive content and projects, quizzes, guest lectures, and information science case studies. Explore Our iSchool Class Profile The iSchool comprises a diverse student body that contributes a range of important perspectives on the future of information utilization. Learn more about our iSchool community below. Program Average Years of Work Experience Female Traditionally Underrepresented Groups Military Affliation MS in Applied Data Science 9 30% 45% 16% MS in Library and Information Science 7 79% 29% 8% MS in Information Systems 10 33% 41% 35% The self-reported information above reflects enrolled students as of June 2020. Meet Our iSchool Students Here at the Syracuse University’s iSchool, we’re proud of the diverse students and alumni in our Orange community. One such alumna is data analyst Kirby Hood, who found a new passion for data science while earning her MS in Applied Data Science online. “Pursuing my master’s has allowed me to explore a new passion for data that I never thought I had. Upon completion of the program, opportunities have presented themselves that I never dreamed were possible. I have been able to talk through business problems in a new way, and present the data behind the analysis to help stakeholders drive business decisions. It has also allowed me to advance within my career and take on new responsibilities to help drive change.” Kirby Hood MS in Applied Data Science 2019, Data Analyst To learn more about our iSchool students and over 10,000 alumni worldwide, visit our student profiles page. How Will You Drive Innovation? Don’t wait to gain new information science expertise and join a global network of more than 10,000 Orange tech professionals. Request Information Help us get to know you better by filling out the brief form below. A member of our community will be in touch soon to connect and we will email you with information about the program. Next Step REQUEST INFO close Close Modal Request Information Help us get to know you better by filling out the brief form below. A member of our community will be in touch soon to connect and we will email you with information about the program. Next Step Business Communications Engineering Information Science Public Administration Social Work Blog Covid-19 Update Legal Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms of Use Contact Us 2U, Our Program Partner Sitemap © 2022 Syracuse University close Close Modal Request Information Help us get to know you better by filling out the brief form below. A member of our community will be in touch soon to connect and we will email you with information about the program. Next Step