Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Page Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Informatics Informatics Academics Community Admissions Careers Focus Areas Research Financial Aid & Scholarships Informatics Minor MLIS MSIM Ph.D. Academics Admissions Committees Scholarships & Funding People More Options Resources: Advising & Support Capstone Projects Upcoming Info Sessions Videos: Alumni at Work Admissions mailing list Informatics majors at the iSchool bend information technology toward equity and justice. What is Informatics? Informatics is the study, design, and development of information technology for the good of people, organizations, and society. As an Informatics student at the UW iSchool, you'll explore the intersection of technology and human values, gaining a deep understanding information in society while creatively imagining more equitable and just information technology and systems. Informatics graduates see the world as more than just innovative apps and websites, but as larger systems of people, information and technology that harness these technologies to address global challenges in democracy, health, wellness, climate, justice and more. Curious about the word "Informatics"? Learn more. Why the iSchool? You'll find the Informatics major is less about narrowing options than expanding possibilities in your career and in your life. Informatics draws upon areas such as computer science, information science, sociology, psychology, design and information management. As a result, graduates are well-rounded information and technology professionals with the ability to apply their knowledge to positively impact organizations, their communities and society. Reasons to study Informatics include: Joining a vibrant, engaged, diverse and inclusive student community. Learning from our interdisciplinary curriculum, which examines the interaction of people, information and technology from the lenses of diversity, equity, inclusion, accessibility, sovereignty and justice. Focusing on fields such as data science, health and well-being, human-computer interaction, information architecture, cybersecurity, information management, information and society, or software development. You can opt to choose one of our focus areas. Pursuing Informatics careers in software development, data science, UX design and research, product management, cybersecurity, biomedical and health informatics, and information architecture. Learn more about students' successful placement across for-profit, not-for-profit and governmental organizations. Learn about the admissions process. Learn more about Informatics Informatics program brochure View more videos about Informatics on our YouTube channel Resources: Advising & Support Capstone Projects Upcoming Info Sessions Videos: Alumni at Work Admissions mailing list News MSIM students study broadband needs of disabled users Friday, May 27, 2022 Take a moment to consider Jane, a 32-year-old who was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis at age 23 and who recently gave birth to her first child. Jane lives on the first floor of a Long Island apartment building with her husband,... Read more Two-day hybrid Capstone gala event increases access to annual student showcase Friday, May 27, 2022 Hundreds of students, faculty, partners and friends attended the University of Washington Information School’s annual Capstone gala event on May 24 and 25. The two-night event featured nearly 200 Capstone projects from the... Read more Events Jun 2 12:30-2:30PM Dissertation Defense - Mingrui Zhang Zoom Jun 2 3:00-4:00PM Informatics Program Overview online Jun 2 6:30-7:30PM MSIM Mid-Career Q&A Zoom Jun 3 11:30-1:15PM Faculty Meeting Bloedel Hall iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org © 2022 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Watermark Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close