Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU 439a9aee108de8bc3d39665a07e509ec Who We Are What We Do Academics Activities Workshops Research Podcast News & Events History of Islamic Studies at Harvard An Interactive Timeline Explore Spring 2022 Courses Explore courses related to Islam and the Muslim world offered this spring Read more Alwaleed bin Talal Seminar in Islamic Studies Bringing world-class experts on topics ranging from Islamic law and theology to contemporary politics and Islam in America and West Africa to Harvard Read more Research Methods in Islamic Studies A workshop series designed to support the research of Harvard students, faculty and visiting fellows Read more Undergraduate and Doctoral Thesis Prizes Congratulations to Murat Eczacıbaşı and Dr. Mary Elston, winners of the 2020 Alwaleed Bin Talal Thesis Prizes! Read more Thinking Islam Within Religious Studies Conference Convened by Professor Ahmed Ragab in honor of Professor William A. Graham on the occasion of his retirement Read more The Alwaleed Islamic Studies Program at Harvard University is dedicated to furthering the scholarly study of Islam and the Muslim world on an interdisciplinary, global basis. About the Islamic Studies Program News 2022 Thesis Prize Winners Announcement May 20, 2022 After reviewing many impressive submissions, the Selection Committee has made the following selections for the Alwaleed Bin Talal Undergraduate Thesis and Doctoral Dissertation Prizes in Islamic Studies: Undergraduate Thesis Prize: The Selection Committee is pleased to announce that Farah Afify (Social Studies) has been chosen as winner of the Alwaleed Bin Talal Undergraduate Thesis Prize for her thesis, “Radical and Muslim: Islamic Liberationist Thought in the Black Panther Party.” Farah explores the often-overlooked relationship... Read more about 2022 Thesis Prize Winners Announcement Encyclopedia of the (Variant) Readings of the Qur’an (EvQ/ErQ) May 13, 2022 We are proud to announce that Professor Shady Nasser has released his new website, which has been years in the making, Encyclopedia of the (Variant) Readings of the Qur’an (EvQ/ErQ)! This project aims to be a critical apparatus of the Qur’an and, through continuing to add data over time, to become a comprehensive encyclopedia and resource on the history and transmission of the Qur’an. This website gathers information from... Read more about Encyclopedia of the (Variant) Readings of the Qur’an (EvQ/ErQ) Amanda Hannoosh Steinberg appointed Librarian for Islamic Art and Architecture, Fine Arts Library May 11, 2022 On May 16, 2022, Amanda Hannoosh Steinberg will take on the role of Librarian for Islamic Art and Architecture at the Fine Arts Library. Since January 2021, Amanda has served in the interim role... Read more about Amanda Hannoosh Steinberg appointed Librarian for Islamic Art and Architecture, Fine Arts Library Eid Mubarak! May 1, 2022 Eid Mubarak! We wish you a joyous Eid and a great summer! - Khaled El-Rouayheb, Harry Bastermajian, and Meryum Kazmi The Alwaleed Islamic Studies Program Team All News Past Events 2022 Apr 29 Book Talk: A Medieval Life in Modern Circumstances 4:30pm to 6:00pm Location: CGIS Knafel, K262 (Bowie-Vernon Room) Join us for a book talk on... Read more about Book Talk: A Medieval Life in Modern Circumstances See also: Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, AISP EventsRead more 2022 Apr 07 Seminar: "What is Post-Classical Philosophy in Islam and How is it Different from Philosophy in Islam’s Classical Period?" by Frank Griffel 4:00pm to 5:30pm Location: via Zoom April 7, 2021 | 4-5:30pm ET | RSVP Here Frank Griffel, Louis M. Rabinowitz Professor of Islamic Studies, Yale University Co-sponsors: Department of Philosophy and Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations See also: AISP EventsRead more 2022 Mar 24 Seminar: "Ibn ʿAsākir of Damascus (1105-1176) and His Many Legacies: Sunnī Revivalist, Jihād Advocate, & Syrian 'Nationalist'" by Suleiman Mourad 4:00pm to 5:30pm Location: via Zoom March 24, 2022 | 4-5:30pm ET | RSVP Here Suleiman Mourad, Professor of Religion, Smith College Co-sponsors: Center for Middle Eastern Studies and Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations See also: AISP EventsRead more 2022 Feb 24 Seminar: "Debating Muslim Legal Sovereignty in Colonial India" by Sohaira Siddiqui 12:00pm to 1:30pm Location: via Zoom February 24, 2022 | 12-1:30pm ET | RSVP Here Sohaira Siddiqui, Associate Professor of Theology, Georgetown University School of Foreign Service in Qatar Co-sponsors: Program in Islamic Law at Harvard Law School and Department of South Asian Studies See also: AISP EventsRead more More Past Events Social BaytAlFann Islamic archaeology involves the recovery & investigation of the material remains of past cultures, that can illuminate the periods & descriptions in the Qur’an, & early Islam. Here are 24 heritage & archaeological sites, connected with Islamic art & architecture A thread… t.co/kMdWL55E3i 2 days 8 hours ago. SHARIAsource The Karnataka High Court recently made a decision to uphold a ban on the wearing of hijab by interpreting the sources of Islamic law for itself via references to colonial-era Qur'an translations & Anglo-Muhammadan legal treatises. Read more on our blog. t.co/RsflfyKH8K t.co/eCrEdGhcLR 4 days 20 hours ago. HarvardIslamic Congratulations to all the graduates of #Harvard22!! 🎓🎉 We would like to especially recognize graduates in Islamic studies and our Alwaleed Bin Talal Thesis Prize winners. Read about them here! t.co/757E4gNvnm t.co/9b8e6ACT8n 6 days 2 hours ago. HarvardIslamic on twitter Promoting Scholarship Alwaleed Bin Talal Seminar in Islamic Studies Bringing experts from an array of fields within Islamic studies to Harvard. Faculty Research Grants Supporting the cutting-edge research of Harvard’s early-career faculty in Islamic studies Alwaleed Bin Talal Thesis Prizes Recognizing undergraduate and doctoral students who make original contributions to current scholarly discourse on Islam and Muslim societies, past and present. Research Methods Workshop A workshop series that allows Harvard students, faculty and visiting fellows to develop skills to enhance their Islamic studies research. Our Fellows Courses Partners Subscribe to our mailing list Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East 6 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Office: 617-495-3379 Fax: 617-800-0996 islamicstudies@harvard.edu https://twitter.com/HarvardIslamicTwitter https://www.instagram.com/aispharvard/Instagram https://www.facebook.com/HarvardAISP/Facebook https://soundcloud.com/harvard-islamicsoundcloud WHO WE ARE Our Director Our Faculty Our Team WHAT WE DO Academics Activities Workshops Search Search NEWS & EVENTS News Upcoming events Subscribe to our mailing list Styleswidget Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement