Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site For Alumni Current ISM Community Job Listings Institute of Sacred Music MUSIC • WORSHIP • ARTS Live audiences return! See event listings for info. Contact News Publications Audio/Video MAVCOR About Graduate Study Fellowships People Choirs Events Initiatives Music and Black Church ISM students at the Divinity School The ISM is home to students pursuing Master of Divinity and Master of Sacred Theology degrees at Yale Divinity School, as well as the Master of Arts in Religion. Read More In partnership with Yale Divinity School The ISM offers interdisciplinary degree programs: Master of Divinity, Master of Arts in Religion, and Master of Sacred Theology. Read More In partnership with Yale School of Music ISM music students receive rigorous musical training leading to M.M., M.M.A., and D.M.A. degrees in organ, choral conducting, and voice (early music & oratorio) Read More Master of Arts in Religion M.A.R. students choose the comprehensive program, or a concentration in Liturgical Studies, Religion & Literature, Religion & Music, or Religion & Visual Arts and Material Culture. Read More Study Tours Typically, every two years, ISM Students and Faculty embark on an international study tour, subsidized by the ISM. The 2020 trip to Peru was cancelled and has not been rescheduled due to COVID-19. Read More Yale Camerata Camerata's 60+ members are experienced singers from Yale and the New Haven region. Read More ISM Fellows Each year, the ISM welcomes a group of fellows at all career stages working in diverse fields touching on the Institute's mission. Read More Marquand Chapel Worship Daily worship in Marquand draws on a wide variety of inherited Christian traditions. The program creatively engages students as leaders and participants. Read More Guest Speakers and Artists Each year the ISM brings a roster of special guests to campus, offering a wide range of lectures, readings, and performances. Read More Yale Schola Cantorum Schola performs regularly in New York and New Haven, records, and tours nationally and internationally. Read More Interdisciplinary Life Colloquium is the meeting ground for all Institute students and faculty, bringing together into conversation the broad fields of arts and religion. Read More Woolsey Hall Organ The magnificent Newberry Organ in Woolsey Hall is one of the world's largest concert organs, lovingly maintained in original condition. Read More Previous Next Academic Life Publications Audio & Video Welcome Welcome to the Yale Institute of Sacred Music—a premier center for the interdisciplinary study of sacred music, worship, and the related arts. Partnering with the Yale School of Music and Yale Divinity School, as well as other academic and professional units at Yale, the ISM prepares its students for careers in church music and other sacred music, pastoral ministry, performance, and scholarship. The ISM engages musicians, artists, clergy, and scholars from around the world in rigorous training and collaboration, and offers a full calendar of concerts, lectures, exhibitions, and other events. Our Primary Partners Yale School of Music Yale Divinity School Latest News Bo kyung Blenda Im Appointed to Faculty The ISM is delighted to announce the appointment of Dr. Bo kyung Blenda Im as assistant professor of sacred music and of divinity beginning July 1, 2023. Bo kyung Blenda Im... Carole Terry Visiting Professor of Organ Fall 2022 The ISM is thrilled to announce the appointment of Dr. Carole Terry as visiting professor of organ in the Yale Institute of Sacred Music and Yale School of Music for the fall... In Case You Missed It: “In the Sanctuary”: Kurt Carr and So Much More! Did you miss “In the Sanctuary” concert and the related events on April 21–22? You can enjoy them right now... James O'Donnell Appointment Announced Yale Institute of Sacred Music (ISM) is pleased to announce the appointment of James O’Donnell to the faculty of the ISM and Yale School of Music. Mr. O’Donnell succeeds... List of all news stories Upcoming Events Alumni Choral Festival June 26, 2022 Great Organ Music at Yale; Nathaniel Gumbs September 18, 2022 Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 406 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 · (203) 432-5180 Yale School of Music | Yale Divinity School | Title IX Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube