Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site For Alumni Current ISM Community Job Listings Institute of Sacred Music MUSIC • WORSHIP • ARTS Live audiences return! See event listings for info. Contact News Publications Audio/Video MAVCOR About Graduate Study Fellowships People Choirs Events Initiatives Music and Black Church Home > Graduate Study > Graduate Admissions Admission to Graduate Study Welcome! Institute students and fellows are immersed in a vibrant interdisciplinary environment that fosters a collaborative learning experience. See the Academics menu for program information. The online application opens September 15th each year. Prospective students should use the APPLY TO THE ISM link at left to set up an online account. Student Life Learn from current students about studying and community at the ISM. General Information and Requirements Since all ISM students are also enrolled in either the Yale School of Music or Yale Divinity School, all applicants to the ISM must submit two separate applications, one to the ISM and one to the relevant professional school. The ISM does not charge an application fee. Full-tuition scholarships are available to ISM students to support fulfillment of their degree requirements. Additional merit awards of $4,000-12,000 are available to eligible ISM students. For degrees in partnership with the Yale School of Music The Institute admits outstanding organists, choral conductors, and vocalists wishing to investigate the sacred contexts of performance. Admittance is based on the application and auditions. On occasion, the ISM will admit a composition major with a particular interest in sacred music. Link to requirements and other info for Music Program Admissions For degrees in partnership with the Yale Divinity School The Institute is interested in students who seek theological education with an emphasis on liturgical studies or religion and the arts, as well as M.Div. candidates who desire interaction with practicing church musicians as part of their education. Link to requirements and other info for Divinity Program Admissions. Fellows If you are interested in applying for a fellowship with the ISM, see the fellowship application process. Deadlines December 1 for students applying to the Institute of Sacred Music and Yale School of Music – you must submit separate applications to the ISM and Yale School of Music. February 1 for students applying to the Institute of Sacred Music and Yale Divinity School. – you must submit separate applications to the ISM and Yale Divinity School. Process The Institute’s Admissions Committee will consider applications for all degree programs, invite music applicants for auditions and interviews, and then make its recommendations to the appropriate admissions committee of either the School of Music or the Divinity School. Letters of acceptance will be sent to successful candidates on or around March 15. There is no early decision process, nor is there a summer program. Divinity School students must obtain the ISM director’s approval to complete a degree on a part-time basis. School of Music students must be enrolled full-time and in consecutive years. Letters of recommendation and transcripts will be kept on file for one year. Students who are not admitted may reapply the following year without resubmitting these materials, although they may send new ones if they choose. All other application materials must be submitted, as for first-time applicants, by the deadline. Applicants are urged to submit all required materials as soon as possible. Applicants should check periodically to be certain that requested credentials have arrived at the Institute’s Office of Admissions. All inquiries should be directed to the Office of Admissions. Nondiscrimination/Title IX Statements The University is committed to basing judgments concerning the admission, education, and employment of individuals upon their qualifications and abilities and affirmatively seeks to attract to its faculty, staff, and student body qualified persons of diverse backgrounds. In accordance with this policy and as delineated by federal and Connecticut law, Yale does not discriminate in admissions, educational programs, or employment against any individual on account of that individual’s sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a protected veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. | Link to Yale Title IX site Additional NavigationClose Academic Life Graduate Admissions Apply to the ISM Contact Admissions Admissions Events Divinity Program Admissions Music Program Admissions Tuition and Fees Financial Aid and Employment Scholarships and Awards FAQs ISM Admissions Blog Meet the Faculty Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 406 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 · (203) 432-5180 Yale School of Music | Yale Divinity School | Title IX Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube