Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today International Support Services KU International Affairs Search form Search Home About Overview People Statistics 2021 - 2022 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2011 2009 - 2010 2008 - 2009 Contact Us Sponsored Students Sponsored Student Program Sponsored Students Pre-arrival Services Responsibilities Resources Services & Fees Financial Details for Sponsors Applied English Center Short-term Programs Health Insurance Jayhawk Semester Jayhawk Semester Program Inquiry Application Process Pre-arrival Current Students In Their Words Jayhawk Semester 5th Anniversary Infographic Apply Schools Cost of Attendance Newly Admitted Current Students F-1 Students [I-20] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load Concurrent Enrollment F-1 Employment Overview Optional Practical Training (OPT) Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Economic Hardship International Organizations Employment Topic Workshop Videos I-20 Extension F-2 Dependents I-20 Requests or Copies Regaining Legal Status Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock J-1 Students [DS-2019] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load J-1 Employment On-Campus Employment Academic Training Economic Hardship DS-2019 Extension DS-2019 Requests or Copies Understanding Program Sponsorship Transfer Program Sponsorship to KU Two Year Home Residency Requirement J-2 Dependents Change of Degree Level Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock Change Status Change of Status Other Categories (H-1B, E-2, etc.) Travel Travel Outside the U.S. Visa Renewal Travel to Canada, Mexico, Caribbean Travel Within the U.S. Letter of Invitation Families Employee & Scholar Services Get Involved Overview Events Haskell Pow Wow International Coffee Hour Kansas City Trip Series Life in the U.S. Series Global Jayhawk Happy Hour International Student Association Global Partners Overview How Does it Work? Join the Program Calendar Elections Volunteer Community Connections Small World Thanksgiving Homestay Local Cultural and Ethnic Organizations Leader Quest Leader Quest 2020-21 Profiles Leader Quest 2019-20 Profiles Leader Quest 2018-19 Profiles Leader Quest 2017-18 Profiles Support Services Insurance Overview Insurance Requirements Waivers Insurance Activation for Students and Dependents Proof of Insurance for J-1 Students Not Enrolled in Semester Classes Proof of Insurance for J-2 Dependents GTA/GRA/GA OPT/AT Insurance Rates Plan Details & ID Cards Individual Dental/Vision Insurances FAQ & Help Center Optional Insurance - Summer COVID-19 Info ISS COVID-19 Information Menu Home About Overview People Statistics 2021 - 2022 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2011 2009 - 2010 2008 - 2009 Contact Us Sponsored Students Sponsored Student Program Sponsored Students Pre-arrival Services Responsibilities Resources Services & Fees Financial Details for Sponsors Applied English Center Short-term Programs Health Insurance Jayhawk Semester Jayhawk Semester Program Inquiry Application Process Pre-arrival Current Students In Their Words Jayhawk Semester 5th Anniversary Infographic Apply Schools Cost of Attendance Newly Admitted Current Students F-1 Students [I-20] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load Concurrent Enrollment F-1 Employment Overview Optional Practical Training (OPT) Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Economic Hardship International Organizations Employment Topic Workshop Videos I-20 Extension F-2 Dependents I-20 Requests or Copies Regaining Legal Status Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock J-1 Students [DS-2019] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load J-1 Employment On-Campus Employment Academic Training Economic Hardship DS-2019 Extension DS-2019 Requests or Copies Understanding Program Sponsorship Transfer Program Sponsorship to KU Two Year Home Residency Requirement J-2 Dependents Change of Degree Level Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock Change Status Change of Status Other Categories (H-1B, E-2, etc.) Travel Travel Outside the U.S. Visa Renewal Travel to Canada, Mexico, Caribbean Travel Within the U.S. Letter of Invitation Families Employee & Scholar Services Get Involved Overview Events Haskell Pow Wow International Coffee Hour Kansas City Trip Series Life in the U.S. Series Global Jayhawk Happy Hour International Student Association Global Partners Overview How Does it Work? Join the Program Calendar Elections Volunteer Community Connections Small World Thanksgiving Homestay Local Cultural and Ethnic Organizations Leader Quest Leader Quest 2020-21 Profiles Leader Quest 2019-20 Profiles Leader Quest 2018-19 Profiles Leader Quest 2017-18 Profiles Support Services Insurance Overview Insurance Requirements Waivers Insurance Activation for Students and Dependents Proof of Insurance for J-1 Students Not Enrolled in Semester Classes Proof of Insurance for J-2 Dependents GTA/GRA/GA OPT/AT Insurance Rates Plan Details & ID Cards Individual Dental/Vision Insurances FAQ & Help Center Optional Insurance - Summer COVID-19 Info ISS COVID-19 Information Search Search form Search Home Get Involved Global Partners Elections Overview How Does it Work? Join the Program Calendar Elections 2021 Global Partners Executive Board Elections Deadline Extended to Monday, April 5th at Midnight Read the following information carefully. The button to apply to run for an Executive Board position is at the bottom of this page. Global Partners will look a little different for 2021-22. On top of our partnerships, we are taking on the responsibility of hosting a weekly program titled "International Café." We will work in collaboration with the Area Studies Centers at KU (Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies, Center for East Asian Studies, African and African American Studies, Kansas African Studies Center, Center for Eastern European and Eurasian Studies, and Global and International Studies) to provide a space for students to share internationally-themed country or culture presentations, performances, lectures etc. The Global Partners Executive Board will meet for one hour every other week. All Board members are expected to attend. The board meeting time will be set based on members' schedules. Experiential Learning Credit and Certificates- Executive board positions are eligible for credit for the Global Awareness Program Certificate. International student board members are also eligible to use this experience for the Leader Quest certificate. Some Global Partners experiences may also work for the Service Learning and Leadership certificates. This is a commitment. Serving on the Executive Board of a Student Organization that is actively putting on a program every week is a big commitment. Choose your commitments wisely in terms of your time and your goals while at KU. Ask yourself what appeals to you about this position and what you hope to get out of it. How does that fit within your coursework and your personal life? The most successful students in these positions will use the position for multiple purposes. They will use it to advance their coursework or degree, they will use it as their social life, they will use it to build skills and experience they need to get internships or jobs. This is a big commitment, but you have a team to work with in your executive board, and you always have your staff advisor and the programming team within International Support Services to ask for guidance and support. Can I run for two positions? Yes, but you may not hold two positions. You will need to create two applications and prepare a speech for both positions you run for. Position Descriptions President- 5-7 hours per week commitment -Oversee all operations of the executive board to hold the fundraising director, the social media manager, the weekly newsletter editor, the partnering manager, and the event planner accountable for their work. If their work is not completed it is the responsibility of the President to see that the work gets done. -The President is responsible, along with the Vice President and Partnering Manager, to attend recruiting fairs such as the two info fairs that take place during Hawk Week, the World Expo in November, and the International Jayhawk Festival in February. -The President will also serve as host for our weekly International Café series, introducing our speakers, and facilitating conversation amongst attendees. The President is expected to attend ALL global partners' events. -The President, along with the Funding Director, will also be responsible for securing funding through Student Senate for our International Café series. This will involve paperwork, budgeting, and may involve a short presentation. Resume builders: leadership, management, organization, intercultural communication, problem-solving, public speaking, budgeting Vice President- FILLED Funding and Fundraising Director- this position will be quite busy around times they are applying for funding and leading up to their fundraising event The Fundraising Director is responsible for at least two fundraising events during their tenure, one in the fall semester and one in the spring. The director is responsible with all negotiations with businesses hosting percentage nights, or with venues and catering for fundraisers hosted by the organization. The Event Planner will assist the Fundraising Director with all logistics for fundraising events. The Funding Director, along with the President, will also be responsible for securing funding through Student Senate for our International Café series. This will involve paperwork, budgeting, and may involve a short presentation. Resume builders: leadership, organization, problem-solving, negotiation abilities, project management skills, creativity, resourcefulness This position would be great for someone building skills to work in the non-profit sector. Social Media/Rock Chalk Central Manager- 3-5 hours per week commitment The social media manager will promote events on the global partners' Facebook and Instagram pages. They are responsible for creating event pages in both Rock Chalk Central and Facebook. They are also responsible to submit events to be included in the Rock Chalk Central weekly newsletter. Resume builders: marketing, communications, brand management, creativity, customer service/community engagement, analytics This position would be great for someone building skills to work in marketing and communications Weekly Newsletter Editor- 1-3 hours per week commitment The Editor will create and send the newsletter every week through our Global Partners Mailchimp that includes all Global Partners events for the week, volunteer and employment opportunities on campus, scholarship and fellowship opportunities with an international focus on campus, and any events being hosted by campus partners or in the community that the editor thinks will be of interest to students in global partners. Resume builders: marketing, communications, brand management, writing, copy editing, design This position would be great for someone building skills for a communications or journalism position, or for a marketing position. Partnering Manager- 5-7 hours per week in the beginning of semester, 1-2 hours after partnering is complete The Partnering Manager is responsible, along with the President and Vice President, to attend recruiting fairs such as the two info fairs that take place during Hawk Week, the World Expo in November, and the International Jayhawk Festival in February. The Partnering Manager will also manage the actual partnering of students through use of an Excel spreadsheet. This position will be most busy the first months of the semester after Hawk Week and orientation, but then work will taper off to maintaining the partnerships. The manager will need to regularly check in with partners to give them ideas on how to connect with each other and re-assign any partnerships that aren't working. Resume builders: attention to detail, organization, Excel, interpersonal communication. This position would be great for someone building skills for teaching, student affairs, or outreach. Event Planner- 3-5 hours per week commitment The Event Planner will work with the President and Vice President to organize, plan, and execute our International Café series every week. The Event Planner will need to set up chairs, make sure the technology is working and confirm any catering orders. The Event Planner will work with each week's host to get them what they need to do their presentation or performance. The Event Planner will be responsible for the clean-up of the space after the event. The Event Planner will also work with the Fundraising Director to host one fundraiser each semester. Resume builders: event planning, project management, management, creativity This position would be great for someone building skills to work in non-profits, event planning, student affairs, or teaching. Apply to Run for an Executive Board Position KU Today Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact International Support Services iss@ku.edu 785-864-3617 Routes through main campus 1450 Jayhawk Boulevard Strong Hall, Room 2 Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Emergency After Hours Phone: 785-380-8937 Technical issues with this webpage? email iss@ku.edu Issues with iHawk? email ihawk@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login