Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today International Support Services KU International Affairs Search form Search Home About Overview People Statistics 2021 - 2022 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2011 2009 - 2010 2008 - 2009 Contact Us Sponsored Students Sponsored Student Program Sponsored Students Pre-arrival Services Responsibilities Resources Services & Fees Financial Details for Sponsors Applied English Center Short-term Programs Health Insurance Jayhawk Semester Jayhawk Semester Program Inquiry Application Process Pre-arrival Current Students In Their Words Jayhawk Semester 5th Anniversary Infographic Apply Schools Cost of Attendance Newly Admitted Current Students F-1 Students [I-20] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load Concurrent Enrollment F-1 Employment Overview Optional Practical Training (OPT) Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Economic Hardship International Organizations Employment Topic Workshop Videos I-20 Extension F-2 Dependents I-20 Requests or Copies Regaining Legal Status Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock J-1 Students [DS-2019] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load J-1 Employment On-Campus Employment Academic Training Economic Hardship DS-2019 Extension DS-2019 Requests or Copies Understanding Program Sponsorship Transfer Program Sponsorship to KU Two Year Home Residency Requirement J-2 Dependents Change of Degree Level Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock Change Status Change of Status Other Categories (H-1B, E-2, etc.) Travel Travel Outside the U.S. Visa Renewal Travel to Canada, Mexico, Caribbean Travel Within the U.S. Letter of Invitation Families Employee & Scholar Services Get Involved Overview Events Haskell Pow Wow International Coffee Hour Kansas City Trip Series Life in the U.S. Series Global Jayhawk Happy Hour International Student Association Global Partners Overview How Does it Work? Join the Program Calendar Elections Volunteer Community Connections Small World Thanksgiving Homestay Local Cultural and Ethnic Organizations Leader Quest Leader Quest 2020-21 Profiles Leader Quest 2019-20 Profiles Leader Quest 2018-19 Profiles Leader Quest 2017-18 Profiles Support Services Insurance Overview Insurance Requirements Waivers Insurance Activation for Students and Dependents Proof of Insurance for J-1 Students Not Enrolled in Semester Classes Proof of Insurance for J-2 Dependents GTA/GRA/GA OPT/AT Insurance Rates Plan Details & ID Cards Individual Dental/Vision Insurances FAQ & Help Center Optional Insurance - Summer COVID-19 Info ISS COVID-19 Information Menu Home About Overview People Statistics 2021 - 2022 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2011 2009 - 2010 2008 - 2009 Contact Us Sponsored Students Sponsored Student Program Sponsored Students Pre-arrival Services Responsibilities Resources Services & Fees Financial Details for Sponsors Applied English Center Short-term Programs Health Insurance Jayhawk Semester Jayhawk Semester Program Inquiry Application Process Pre-arrival Current Students In Their Words Jayhawk Semester 5th Anniversary Infographic Apply Schools Cost of Attendance Newly Admitted Current Students F-1 Students [I-20] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load Concurrent Enrollment F-1 Employment Overview Optional Practical Training (OPT) Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Economic Hardship International Organizations Employment Topic Workshop Videos I-20 Extension F-2 Dependents I-20 Requests or Copies Regaining Legal Status Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock J-1 Students [DS-2019] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load J-1 Employment On-Campus Employment Academic Training Economic Hardship DS-2019 Extension DS-2019 Requests or Copies Understanding Program Sponsorship Transfer Program Sponsorship to KU Two Year Home Residency Requirement J-2 Dependents Change of Degree Level Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock Change Status Change of Status Other Categories (H-1B, E-2, etc.) Travel Travel Outside the U.S. Visa Renewal Travel to Canada, Mexico, Caribbean Travel Within the U.S. Letter of Invitation Families Employee & Scholar Services Get Involved Overview Events Haskell Pow Wow International Coffee Hour Kansas City Trip Series Life in the U.S. Series Global Jayhawk Happy Hour International Student Association Global Partners Overview How Does it Work? Join the Program Calendar Elections Volunteer Community Connections Small World Thanksgiving Homestay Local Cultural and Ethnic Organizations Leader Quest Leader Quest 2020-21 Profiles Leader Quest 2019-20 Profiles Leader Quest 2018-19 Profiles Leader Quest 2017-18 Profiles Support Services Insurance Overview Insurance Requirements Waivers Insurance Activation for Students and Dependents Proof of Insurance for J-1 Students Not Enrolled in Semester Classes Proof of Insurance for J-2 Dependents GTA/GRA/GA OPT/AT Insurance Rates Plan Details & ID Cards Individual Dental/Vision Insurances FAQ & Help Center Optional Insurance - Summer COVID-19 Info ISS COVID-19 Information Search Search form Search Home Newly Admitted - Orientation 6. Arrive 7. Orientation 8. Print Orientation Enrollment & Tuition Succeed at KU International Student Orientation International Student Orientation (ISO) is a comprehensive online program designed to help new international students enroll and prepare for life at KU and in the U.S. All new international students are required to register for and participate in ISO.* After registering for orientation in iHawk, you will receive access to an ISO course in Canvas (one of KU’s online learning management systems). The course includes detailed instructions for how to complete pre-enrollment requirements, meet with an academic advisor, and enroll. It also contains information and resources designed to help you succeed as an international Jayhawk. It is asynchronous, meaning that you can complete it on your own schedule. Complete it as soon as possible to receive a priority enrollment appointment! During the designated ISO dates, you will have opportunities to connect with ISS staff and other orientation participants in a series of synchronous orientation sessions offered over Zoom. Session times and Zoom links are included in the Canvas course. Please refer to the table below for essential information you need to know as you prepare for your first semester at KU and/or in Lawrence. If you have any questions, please reach out to us at issorientation@ku.edu. Summer 2022 Fall 2022 ISO Priority Registration Deadline May 18, 2022 July 22, 2022 ISO Dates Access to the Online Course, Testing, and Advising/Enrollment: May 2, 2022 In-Person ISO: June 1- 6, 2022 Access to the Online Course, Testing, and Advising/Enrollment: May 15, 2022 In-Person ISO: August 11-18, 2022 ISO Fee $240 $240 Report Date(s)** May 31, 2022 Undergraduate and Graduate Students: August 10, 2022* Graduate Students with an assistantship needing to apply for Scial Security Number: No later than August 3rd, 2022 COVID-19 Testing, Quarantine, and/or Vaccination Requirements Please check Protect KU regularly for the most up-to-date information about KU’s plans regarding COVID-19. Please check Protect KU regularly for the most up-to-date information about KU’s plans regarding COVID-19. Transportation You will need to arrange your own transportation from Kansas City International Airport to Lawrence. You can make reservations with a commercial shuttle, taxi, or car rental service. Find suggestions here. You will need to arrange your own transportation from Kansas City International Airport to Lawrence. You can make reservations with a commercial shuttle, taxi, or car rental service. Find suggestions here. Accommodations There are no official temporary housing options during the Summer ISO. Information about permanent on-campus housing options for the summer academic term. Additional information about KU Student Housing is included in Module 5 of the ISO Canvas course. Information about off-campus housing options. Additional information is included in Module 5 of the ISO Canvas course. If you need temporary housing before or during the ISO or before you can move into your residence hall, apartment, or house, Lawrence has a wide variety of hotels and motels available for short periods. Rates may vary greatly. Browse hotel options on the Unmistakably Lawrence website. When booking a hotel, mention that you are a new KU international student—you may receive a discount! The following hotels have rooms starting at $60 + tax per night†: Super 8 (+1-785-842-5100) 801 Iowa Street, Lawrence, KS 66049 Econo Lodge (+1-785-841-8410) 2525 W. 6th Street, Lawrence, KS 66049 †Rates subject to change There are no official temporary housing options during the Fall ISO. Information about permanent on-campus housing options for the fall academic term. Additional information about KU Student Housing is included in Module 5 of the ISO Canvas course. Information about off-campus housing options. Additional information is included in Module 5 of the ISO Canvas course. If you need temporary housing before or during the ISO or before you can move into your residence hall, apartment, or house, Lawrence has a wide variety of hotels and motels available for short periods. Rates may vary greatly. Browse hotel options on the Unmistakably Lawrence website. When booking a hotel, mention that you are a new KU international student—you may receive a discount! The following hotels have rooms starting at $60 + tax per night†: Super 8 (+1-785-842-5100) 801 Iowa Street, Lawrence, KS 66049 Econo Lodge (+1-785-841-8410) 2525 W. 6th Street, Lawrence, KS 66049 †Rates subject to change Food Meals during the ISO are your responsibility. You will have access to a couple of campus dining facilities, local grocery stores, and restaurants. The ISO Canvas course includes information about KU Dining as well as instructions for how to order restaurant takeout and groceries for delivery. Meals during the ISO are your responsibility. You will have access to a couple of campus dining facilities, local grocery stores, and restaurants. The ISO Canvas course includes information about KU Dining as well as instructions for how to order restaurant takeout and groceries for delivery. * Readmitted students are exempt from ISO. However, they are still required to complete check-ins with ISS and Watkins Health Services. New graduate students not in F-1 or J-1 status may request to be waived from the ISO requirement by emailing issorientation@ku.edu. They are also required to complete check-ins with ISS and Watkins Health Services. **You should arrive at KU by this date. If you will be in F-1 or J-1 status, you can enter the U.S. no more than 30 days before this date, which should be the same as the “Program Start Date” on your I-20 or DS-2019. Registration for International Student Orientation is required! Find out more information about your specific orientation program and register now!. Edwards Campus Students Students admitted to a program at the KU Edwards Campus in Overland Park have special orientation instructions. Enrollment Requirement for International Students F-1 and J-1 international students must be enrolled in a full course of study each regular term. Generally, international undergraduate students must be enrolled in at least 12 credit hours, and international graduate students are required to be enrolled in 9 credit hours. If for any reason you do not meet these requirements or are planning to drop below the minimum hours required, you must first speak with an ISS immigration advisor or you risk falling out of status. You will receive more information about this at your ISS Check-in. Academic Advising at KU Degree-Seeking Undergraduates Undergraduate students may be advised through many different offices: Undergraduate Advising Center (UAC) All undergraduate students that have not decided a major, are admitted to the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences, or to a pre-professional school that have taken 89 credit hours or less. College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (CLAS) Once a student declares a major, the student transitions from the UAC to his or her academic department in CLAS. Students who have not declared a major after reaching 90 credit hours are advised by the CLAS Student Academic Services. Professional Schools The Professional Schools below require completion of credit hours in CLAS (noted below) as prerequisites for application. Pre-professional students are advised in the UAC, then transition to advising in their school once they have been accepted. Business: 60 hours Education: 29-50 hours Health Prof: 57-90 hours Pharmacy: 68 hours Nursing: 62 hours Social Welfare: 30 hours Direct-Entry Professional Schools All students admitted to one of the following schools in their freshman year are advised by their school: Architecture, Business, Journalism, Music, or School of the Arts Honors Program CLAS students in the Honors Program are advised by Honors. Those admitted to a professional school are advised by both their school and Honors. Applied English Center Students taking English proficiency courses through the Applied English Center (AEC) will be advised through that office in Room 204, Lippincott Hall. Students taking part-time AEC and part-time regular KU academic courses should follow the “Degree Seeking Undergraduate” listings above. Graduate Students All graduate students should contact their department for information about advising procedures. There is no central office strictly for graduate student advising. Study Abroad Students whose short-term visits are coordinated through the Office of Study Abroad will be advised through their office in Room 108, Lippincott Hall. Choosing your Courses Choosing Your Courses When selecting your classes, it is important to keep in mind the stipulations of your academic program. For this reason, we recommend meeting with an academic advisor before you enroll. For information about advising specific to you, please refer to our section about Advising at KU. Before you enroll, take a look at the semester class schedule to get an idea of potential classes that suit your interests or academic goals. Make sure that the classes you select are compatible with your program requirements. All classes are named after a particular code. These codes represent the department and subject area of a class. Students taking AEC classes will enroll through the AEC. If your visit to KU is coordinated through the Office of Study Abroad, you must meet with that office to be advised and enroll. Questions about enrolling in classes should be directed to your academic advisor or the Registrar's Office (1-785-864-4423 or kuregistrar@ku.edu). Enroll & Pay Enrolling for classes is completed online through Enroll & Pay. It is very important to familiarize yourself with this system. Please review the "Enroll & Pay Guide" below to learn how to locate and navigate the enrollment system. Enroll & Pay Guide Enroll & Pay Link Transferring Credits Many classes at your current or former school may be transferred to KU. However, you must submit official transcripts of completed course work before a final determination can be made. KU uses a Transfer Equivalency System called CredTran, which is provided as a guide to how classes at your current or former school are transferred to KU. Find out if your credits are transferable. Pay Your Tuition The deadline to pay your tuition and fees will depend on when you enroll. KU posts e-bills on the 21st of each month and payments are due on the 15th of the following month. Failure to pay by the deadline will result in assessment of additional fees. Student Accounts & Receivables 1246 West Campus Road, Room 1 Lawrence, KS 66045 1-785-864-3322 stu.account@ku.edu Payment Options Online by bank-to-bank transfer and credit card via Flywire. Online by e-check Online by credit card (VISA, MasterCard, Discover, or American Express). Credit card payments are charged with an additional 2.75% per transaction. By mail with a check from a U.S. bank (write KUID# on check) or with traveler's check. In person by check (include KUID#), traveler's check, or money order. Bring your e-bill coupon from Enroll & Pay with you. NOTE: KU cannot accept cash payment for tuition and fees. KU has a payment installment plan administered by Tuition Management Systems (TMS). The payment plan allows students to pay their tuition, required campus fees, Student Housing charges, meal plan, and optional campus fees over various months depending on the semester. For more information about this plan, click here. Buy Your Textbooks The KU Bookstore is located in Kansas Union on the KU campus. All of the required textbooks for classes taught at KU are available at the KU Bookstore. Learn more about KU Bookstore and textbooks. Tips for Academic Success Learn about U.S. classroom culture, teacher expectations, and understanding grades. Get Involved Did you have fun making friends at orientation? Keep an eye out for future ISS programing events! ISS regularly hosts: International Coffee Hour Kansas City Trip Series Global Partners ...and more! Stay involved and follow ISS on Facebook for event notifications! Immigration Advising ISS is here to help you with your immigration questions. Visit with an ISS advisor if: You are thinking about working on campus You want to drop a class You are planning on traveling outside of the U.S. You want to change your immigration status ISS is open 8:00am - 5:00pm, Monday - Friday. Walk-in hours: 1:30pm - 4:00pm, Monday - Friday Appointment hours: 9:00am - 11:30am, Tuesday - Friday Steps to KU Apply KU IDs Immigration Documents Plan Register Arrive Orientation Print Families KU Today Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact International Support Services iss@ku.edu 785-864-3617 Routes through main campus 1450 Jayhawk Boulevard Strong Hall, Room 2 Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Emergency After Hours Phone: 785-380-8937 Technical issues with this webpage? email iss@ku.edu Issues with iHawk? email ihawk@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login