Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today International Support Services KU International Affairs Search form Search Home About Overview People Statistics 2021 - 2022 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2011 2009 - 2010 2008 - 2009 Contact Us Sponsored Students Sponsored Student Program Sponsored Students Pre-arrival Services Responsibilities Resources Services & Fees Financial Details for Sponsors Applied English Center Short-term Programs Health Insurance Jayhawk Semester Jayhawk Semester Program Inquiry Application Process Pre-arrival Current Students In Their Words Jayhawk Semester 5th Anniversary Infographic Apply Schools Cost of Attendance Newly Admitted Current Students F-1 Students [I-20] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load Concurrent Enrollment F-1 Employment Overview Optional Practical Training (OPT) Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Economic Hardship International Organizations Employment Topic Workshop Videos I-20 Extension F-2 Dependents I-20 Requests or Copies Regaining Legal Status Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock J-1 Students [DS-2019] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load J-1 Employment On-Campus Employment Academic Training Economic Hardship DS-2019 Extension DS-2019 Requests or Copies Understanding Program Sponsorship Transfer Program Sponsorship to KU Two Year Home Residency Requirement J-2 Dependents Change of Degree Level Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock Change Status Change of Status Other Categories (H-1B, E-2, etc.) Travel Travel Outside the U.S. Visa Renewal Travel to Canada, Mexico, Caribbean Travel Within the U.S. Letter of Invitation Families Employee & Scholar Services Get Involved Overview Events Haskell Pow Wow International Coffee Hour Kansas City Trip Series Life in the U.S. Series Global Jayhawk Happy Hour International Student Association Global Partners Overview How Does it Work? Join the Program Calendar Elections Volunteer Community Connections Small World Thanksgiving Homestay Local Cultural and Ethnic Organizations Leader Quest Leader Quest 2020-21 Profiles Leader Quest 2019-20 Profiles Leader Quest 2018-19 Profiles Leader Quest 2017-18 Profiles Support Services Insurance Overview Insurance Requirements Waivers Insurance Activation for Students and Dependents Proof of Insurance for J-1 Students Not Enrolled in Semester Classes Proof of Insurance for J-2 Dependents GTA/GRA/GA OPT/AT Insurance Rates Plan Details & ID Cards Individual Dental/Vision Insurances FAQ & Help Center Optional Insurance - Summer COVID-19 Info ISS COVID-19 Information Menu Home About Overview People Statistics 2021 - 2022 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2011 2009 - 2010 2008 - 2009 Contact Us Sponsored Students Sponsored Student Program Sponsored Students Pre-arrival Services Responsibilities Resources Services & Fees Financial Details for Sponsors Applied English Center Short-term Programs Health Insurance Jayhawk Semester Jayhawk Semester Program Inquiry Application Process Pre-arrival Current Students In Their Words Jayhawk Semester 5th Anniversary Infographic Apply Schools Cost of Attendance Newly Admitted Current Students F-1 Students [I-20] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load Concurrent Enrollment F-1 Employment Overview Optional Practical Training (OPT) Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Economic Hardship International Organizations Employment Topic Workshop Videos I-20 Extension F-2 Dependents I-20 Requests or Copies Regaining Legal Status Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock J-1 Students [DS-2019] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load J-1 Employment On-Campus Employment Academic Training Economic Hardship DS-2019 Extension DS-2019 Requests or Copies Understanding Program Sponsorship Transfer Program Sponsorship to KU Two Year Home Residency Requirement J-2 Dependents Change of Degree Level Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock Change Status Change of Status Other Categories (H-1B, E-2, etc.) Travel Travel Outside the U.S. Visa Renewal Travel to Canada, Mexico, Caribbean Travel Within the U.S. Letter of Invitation Families Employee & Scholar Services Get Involved Overview Events Haskell Pow Wow International Coffee Hour Kansas City Trip Series Life in the U.S. Series Global Jayhawk Happy Hour International Student Association Global Partners Overview How Does it Work? Join the Program Calendar Elections Volunteer Community Connections Small World Thanksgiving Homestay Local Cultural and Ethnic Organizations Leader Quest Leader Quest 2020-21 Profiles Leader Quest 2019-20 Profiles Leader Quest 2018-19 Profiles Leader Quest 2017-18 Profiles Support Services Insurance Overview Insurance Requirements Waivers Insurance Activation for Students and Dependents Proof of Insurance for J-1 Students Not Enrolled in Semester Classes Proof of Insurance for J-2 Dependents GTA/GRA/GA OPT/AT Insurance Rates Plan Details & ID Cards Individual Dental/Vision Insurances FAQ & Help Center Optional Insurance - Summer COVID-19 Info ISS COVID-19 Information Search Search form Search Home About Jayhawk Semester Pre-arrival Jayhawk Semester Program Inquiry Application Process Pre-arrival Current Students In Their Words Jayhawk Semester 5th Anniversary Infographic Pre-arrival Jayhawk Semester Coordinators will be in contact with students in the months leading up to their arrival. We will assist with the pre-arrival process and facilitate communication with KU as you get ready to begin your Jayhawk Semester. View the International Support Services site for a step-by-step guide for pre-arrival preparation. Travel Getting to Lawrence Fly into the Kansas City International Airport (MCI), which is located approximately one hour by car from Lawrence. Shuttle companies operate between the airport and Lawrence. Advanced reservations are required. Getting Settled in Lawrence Determine housing arrangements prior to your arrival. See Housing & Meal Plans. If necessary set up early arrival housing during orientation week. Go to the designated orientation registration site to check-in or go to International Support Services (2 Strong Hall, 785-864-3617). Orientation International Support Services (ISS) provides an orientation to new students. This will include information about university facilities, resources and policies as well as an introduction to student life at KU and in the United States. The orientation will also assist the students in completing the required health center and ISS check-in, an English language proficiency exam (if applicable), and opening a bank account. The Jayhawk Semester requires that all incoming students participate in the orientation program. Housing & Meal Plan Once admitted, you will be able to submit a contract online for on-campus housing and meal plan. Housing options include apartments, residence halls, and scholarship halls. Students are responsible for providing bedding and personal items related to housing needs, in addition to housing costs. During orientation shuttles will take students to local stores, any items not brought with you can be bought during this time. Finances An estimated cost sheet for the program will be provided. The length of a student program is either an academic year consisting of fall and spring semesters or a semester program. The estimated cost of attendance will be based on a tuition and fees, on-campus housing, books and supplies, health insurance, and personal expenses. An additional $250 per semester fee will be charged for the Jayhawk Semester Program administration and services. Billing After enrolling, bills for tuition and fees are available online on or about the 21st of the month and are due on the 15th of the following month. The first due date of the academic year is typically September 15th. Payments must be received by the appropriate date to avoid a non-refundable $100 late payment fee. The University of Kansas billing system is completely online. Students will be notified by email around the 21st of each month when a new eBill has been generated. To obtain your eBill, login to Enroll & Pay at then select Campus Finances > View/Print Bill. English Requirements There is no minimum English proficiency test score for undergraduate admission to KU. Students may need to take a placement test to determine enrollment eligibility. Students with the following scores are not required to take the English placement test and will be qualified to enroll in full-time degree coursework: 79 or above on the TOEFL iBT (with consistent part scores 18 and above), or 550 or above on the paper-based TOEFL (with consistent part scores), or 6.5 or above on the IELTS (with consistent part scores) If students do not meet the above score criteria, they will be tested for English proficiency by the Applied English Center (AEC) when they arrive at KU. The AEC test will determine whether they enroll in full-time or part-time intensive English coursework or whether they will be eligible to begin full-time academic studies. Click here for more information. Academics Enrollment Just before the beginning of the semester, during orientation, you will enroll in courses with the consultation of the Jayhawk Semester Coordinator. Undergraduate students must enroll in a minimum of 12 credit hours. Students enroll either online or by paper through the Registrar’s Office. Course Selection In order to find classes for a specific semester, you should consult the Timetable of Classes, which lists the classes offered for a particular semester along with the time and room number. You will enroll in classes after you have arrived on the KU campus and completed international student check in. Health Insurance All incoming Jayhawk Semester students must have medical insurance for the duration of their stay in the United States. This requirement is enforced by automatically enrolling students in KU’s international student health insurance plan through United Health Care Student Resources (UHCSR). Charges will appear on student accounts as part of their tuition bill. The rates and options for the insurance are here. Students who have insurance that meets the ISS requirements may submit a waiver request. To obtain the waiver, students must present proof of insurance to the Insurance Coordinator in the ISS office. More information can be found here or by contacting the Insurance Coordinator at (785) 864-3617 or issinsurance@ku.edu. Immunizations All students must provide, prior to enrollment, proof of immunizations for meningitis, mumps, measles, and rubella. Students can receive them upon arrival or bring proof of prior immunization. Students will also be required to take a tuberculosis (TB) test after arrival. The TB test and other vaccinations are provided to international students at Watkins Student Health Center during orientation. Failure to comply with this policy will result in not being allowed to enroll in classes. An Immunization Form and a Health History form will be enclosed with your acceptance packet. These forms must be completed and brought with you when you come to KU. KU Today Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact International Support Services iss@ku.edu 785-864-3617 Routes through main campus 1450 Jayhawk Boulevard Strong Hall, Room 2 Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Emergency After Hours Phone: 785-380-8937 Technical issues with this webpage? email iss@ku.edu Issues with iHawk? email ihawk@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login