Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today International Support Services KU International Affairs Search form Search Home About Overview People Statistics 2021 - 2022 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2011 2009 - 2010 2008 - 2009 Contact Us Sponsored Students Sponsored Student Program Sponsored Students Pre-arrival Services Responsibilities Resources Services & Fees Financial Details for Sponsors Applied English Center Short-term Programs Health Insurance Jayhawk Semester Jayhawk Semester Program Inquiry Application Process Pre-arrival Current Students In Their Words Jayhawk Semester 5th Anniversary Infographic Apply Schools Cost of Attendance Newly Admitted Current Students F-1 Students [I-20] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load Concurrent Enrollment F-1 Employment Overview Optional Practical Training (OPT) Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Economic Hardship International Organizations Employment Topic Workshop Videos I-20 Extension F-2 Dependents I-20 Requests or Copies Regaining Legal Status Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock J-1 Students [DS-2019] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load J-1 Employment On-Campus Employment Academic Training Economic Hardship DS-2019 Extension DS-2019 Requests or Copies Understanding Program Sponsorship Transfer Program Sponsorship to KU Two Year Home Residency Requirement J-2 Dependents Change of Degree Level Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock Change Status Change of Status Other Categories (H-1B, E-2, etc.) Travel Travel Outside the U.S. Visa Renewal Travel to Canada, Mexico, Caribbean Travel Within the U.S. Letter of Invitation Families Employee & Scholar Services Get Involved Overview Events Haskell Pow Wow International Coffee Hour Kansas City Trip Series Life in the U.S. Series Global Jayhawk Happy Hour International Student Association Global Partners Overview How Does it Work? Join the Program Calendar Elections Volunteer Community Connections Small World Thanksgiving Homestay Local Cultural and Ethnic Organizations Leader Quest Leader Quest 2020-21 Profiles Leader Quest 2019-20 Profiles Leader Quest 2018-19 Profiles Leader Quest 2017-18 Profiles Support Services Insurance Overview Insurance Requirements Waivers Insurance Activation for Students and Dependents Proof of Insurance for J-1 Students Not Enrolled in Semester Classes Proof of Insurance for J-2 Dependents GTA/GRA/GA OPT/AT Insurance Rates Plan Details & ID Cards Individual Dental/Vision Insurances FAQ & Help Center Optional Insurance - Summer COVID-19 Info ISS COVID-19 Information Menu Home About Overview People Statistics 2021 - 2022 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2011 2009 - 2010 2008 - 2009 Contact Us Sponsored Students Sponsored Student Program Sponsored Students Pre-arrival Services Responsibilities Resources Services & Fees Financial Details for Sponsors Applied English Center Short-term Programs Health Insurance Jayhawk Semester Jayhawk Semester Program Inquiry Application Process Pre-arrival Current Students In Their Words Jayhawk Semester 5th Anniversary Infographic Apply Schools Cost of Attendance Newly Admitted Current Students F-1 Students [I-20] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load Concurrent Enrollment F-1 Employment Overview Optional Practical Training (OPT) Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Economic Hardship International Organizations Employment Topic Workshop Videos I-20 Extension F-2 Dependents I-20 Requests or Copies Regaining Legal Status Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock J-1 Students [DS-2019] Staying Legal Address/Phone Update Reduced Course Load J-1 Employment On-Campus Employment Academic Training Economic Hardship DS-2019 Extension DS-2019 Requests or Copies Understanding Program Sponsorship Transfer Program Sponsorship to KU Two Year Home Residency Requirement J-2 Dependents Change of Degree Level Leaving KU Reverse Culture Shock Change Status Change of Status Other Categories (H-1B, E-2, etc.) Travel Travel Outside the U.S. Visa Renewal Travel to Canada, Mexico, Caribbean Travel Within the U.S. Letter of Invitation Families Employee & Scholar Services Get Involved Overview Events Haskell Pow Wow International Coffee Hour Kansas City Trip Series Life in the U.S. Series Global Jayhawk Happy Hour International Student Association Global Partners Overview How Does it Work? Join the Program Calendar Elections Volunteer Community Connections Small World Thanksgiving Homestay Local Cultural and Ethnic Organizations Leader Quest Leader Quest 2020-21 Profiles Leader Quest 2019-20 Profiles Leader Quest 2018-19 Profiles Leader Quest 2017-18 Profiles Support Services Insurance Overview Insurance Requirements Waivers Insurance Activation for Students and Dependents Proof of Insurance for J-1 Students Not Enrolled in Semester Classes Proof of Insurance for J-2 Dependents GTA/GRA/GA OPT/AT Insurance Rates Plan Details & ID Cards Individual Dental/Vision Insurances FAQ & Help Center Optional Insurance - Summer COVID-19 Info ISS COVID-19 Information Search Search form Search Home Current Students Change Status Change of Status Change of Status Other Categories (H-1B, E-2, etc.) Change of Status About Change from INSIDE U.S. Change through TRAVEL To change your status, you must choose one of two methods: Change of Status from Inside the U.S. Change of Status by Traveling Outside of and Re-Entering the U.S. If you are considering changing your current immigration status to a different immigration status, keep in mind that every immigration status has different rules and benefits. You may want to explore the rules and benefits of your current status as well as the one you are considering changing to (F-1 student/F-2 dependent, J-1 student/J-2 dependent, or Other Categories [ex. H-1B, E-2, etc.]) and visit with an ISS advisor during Immigration Advising Hours to discuss the benefits and consequences of changing your status. ISS primarily advises students who are changing to an F or J category status. If you are planning on changing to a category other than F or J, you may visit with an ISS advisor for general information or you may consider contacting a qualified immigration attorney. Change Your Status from Inside the U.S. In order to change your status from inside the United States, you must submit a paper application and certain required documentation to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). USCIS will determine the basis of your eligibility for your change of status request based on their review of your application and documents. Incomplete applications or applications missing documents may be returned or denied. If you have questions about your change of status application, contact ISS at iss@ku.edu. The change of status application is unpredictable and often takes 5 to 10 months to be approved by USCIS. ISS primarily advises students who are changing to an F or J category status. If you are planning on changing to a category other than F or J, you may visit with an ISS advisor for general information or you may consider contacting a qualified immigration attorney. 1. Gather all documentation for the application I am in F-1F-2J-1J-2H-1BH-4B-1B-2E-2 status now. I plan to change to F-1F-2J-1J-2B-2 status. Prepare clear photocopies of all of the below listed documents except for the proof of finances to submit with your application. USCIS prefers to work with your original financial document. Applicant's current F-1 I-20 Applicant’s current F-2 I-20 as a dependent Current F-1 spouse or parent's I-20 Current F-1 spouse or parent's I-94 Printout of I-94 electronic record or paper card (front & back) Current F-1 spouse or parent's visa used to enter the U.S. and any Change of Status I-797 Approval Notice obtained after entry, if applicable Current F-1 spouse or parent's passport page(s) showing name, photo, date of birth and expiration date CAUTION: If you are subject to the two-year home residency requirement, you are not eligible to change your status within the U.S. unless you are granted a waiver of this requirement! Applicant J-1’s copy of 2 year home residency waiver, if applicable [or advisory opinion stating not subject to 212 (e)] Applicant’s current J-1 DS-2019 Applicant’s J-2 2 year home residency waiver, if applicable [or advisory opinion-not subject to 212 (e)] Applicant’s J-2 DS-2019 as a dependent Current J-1 spouse or parent's I-94 Printout of I-94 electronic record or paper card (front & back) Current J-1 spouse or parent's visa used to enter the U.S. and any Change of Status I-797 Approval Notice obtained after entry Current J-1 spouse or parent's passport page(s) with name, photo, date of birth and expiration date Current J-1 spouse or parent's DS-2019 Applicant’s H-1B Approval Notice – Form I-797A Proof applicant H-1B is still employed e.g. letter from current employer verifying still in position or current pay stub Current H-1B spouse or parent's Approval Notice Form I-797 Current H-1B spouse or parent's most recent I-94 Attached to the bottom of the I-797, or retrieved if current H-1B spouse or parent re-entered the U.S. after receiving the I-797 approval notice Current H-1B spouse or parent's visa used to enter the U.S. and any Change of Status I-797 Approval Notice obtained after entry, if applicable Current H-1B spouse or parent's passport page(s) showing name, photo, date of birth and expiration date Proof current H-1B spouse or parent is still employed. e.g. current letter verifying H-1B is still employed in position as approved in I-797 or a current paystub CAUTION: You must maintain your B-1 status until the change of status is approved! You may need to also file an I-539 (with fee) for a B-1 extension if your current I-94 will expire before your change of status application is processed. Personal letter and supportive evidence The letter and evidence must show your intent to be a student changed after entering the U.S. and that your course of study has not yet begun CAUTION: You must maintain your B-1 status until the change of status is approved! You may need to also file an I-539 (with fee) for a B-1 extension if your current I-94 will expire before your change of status application is processed. Personal letter and supportive evidence The letter and evidence must show your intent to be a student changed after entering the U.S. and that your course of study has not yet begun Principal E-2’s Approval Notice Form I-797 Proof principal E-2 is still employed E.g. current letter verifying Principal E-2 is still employed in position as approved in I-797 or a current paystub If Applicant is in a dependent E-2 status, also include: Principal E-2 spouse or parent’s visa used to enter the U.S. and any Change of Status I-797 Approval Notice obtained after entry, if applicable Principal E-2 spouse or parent’s most recent I-94 Attached to the bottom of the I-797, or retrieved if re-entered the U.S. after receiving the I-797 approval notice Principal E-2 spouse or parent’s passport page(s) showing name, photo, date of birth and expiration date Applicant’s passport page(s) with name, date of birth and expiration date Applicant’s visa used to enter the U.S. and any Change of Status I-797 Approval Notice obtained after entry, if applicable Applicant’s most recent I-94 Printout of I-94 electronic record or paper card (front and back) Applicant's new F-1 I-20 (just pages 1 & 2; be sure to sign at the bottom of page 1) How to get your F-1 I-20 For students currently enrolled at KU Login to iHawk Click on 'ISS Services for All Students' Click on 'Change of Status to F-1 I-20 Request' and submit all forms in this e-form group. Forms 1 - 3 can be submitted in any order Form 4 becomes available only after forms 1 - 3 are submitted. Once you submit form 4, you must visit with an ISS immigration advisor in order to have your request reviewed and the change of status I-20 issued. For new students Apply for and be admitted to KU. On your application, make sure you indicate what status you are in now and what status you are requesting to be in during your studies at KU After you have been admitted (and after you have accepted your admission if you are a graduate student), you will receive an email from ISS asking you to complete several forms in iHawk Once you have completed the forms in iHawk, an ISS Document Specialist will review the E-forms and may contact you for additional information After a final review of all of your E-forms, documents and additional information, your I-20 will be issued Applicant's I-901 SEVIS fee receipt Pay the SEVIS fee at www.fmjfee.com Learn more about how to pay the SEVIS fee Evidence of financial support covering the minimum listed on the new F-1 I-20 Past 4 months of bank statements or proof of a GTA/GRA/scholarship are acceptable (a letter from the bank with current balance is insufficient) F-2 dependent I-20 (just pages 1 & 2; make sure F-1 signs at the bottom of page 1) How to get your F-2 I-20 if F-1 primary is a KU Student Your new primary F-1 (parent or spouse) must request to add you as their dependent F-2 by: Primary F-1 logs into their iHawk Primary F-1 clicks on ‘F-1 Student Services’ in the menu and then ‘I-20 Requests’ Click on ‘Start a New Request’ Click on ‘I-20 Add Dependents(s)' Complete the form. You will need to upload scans of the new F-2’s passport, and financial documentation that proves the F-1 can pay for the support of the F-2 in addition to the F-1’s academic expenses The F-1 must go to ISS to visit with an advisor after submitting the form and while the form is in the ‘Pending Review’ status An ISS advisor will create new I-20s for the primary F-1 and the new F-2 How to get your F-2 I-20 if F-1 primary is not a KU Student Contact the institution that issued the F-1 primary’s current I-20 for instructions on how to get an F-2 I-20. New primary F-1 parent or spouse's updated I-20 New primary F-1 parent or spouse's I-94 Printout of I-94 electronic record or paper card (front & back) New primary F-1 parent or spouse's visa used to enter the U.S. and any Change of Status I-797 Approval Notice obtained after entry New primary F-1 parent or spouse's passport page(s) with name, date of birth and passport expiration Proof of relationship between F-1 and F-2 (marriage or birth certificate; as appropriate) Applicant’s new, original DS-2019; be sure to sign exchange visitor certification I-901 SEVIS fee payment receipt Evidence of financial support covering at least the amount listed on the DS-2019 USCIS Form I-134 is recommended. Other evidence that may be sufficient: Past 4 months of bank statements (a letter from the bank is insufficient) J-2 dependent DS-2019 (have J-1 sign at the bottom before submitting) How to get your J-2 DS-2019 if J-1 primary's DS-2019 was issued by KU Your new primary J-1 (parent or spouse) must request to add you as their dependent J-2 by: New primary J-1 logs in to their iHawk New primary J-1 clicks on ‘J-1 Student Services’ in the menu and then ‘DS-2019 Requests’ Click on ‘Start a New Request’ Click on ‘DS-2019 Add Dependents(s)’ Complete the form. You will need to upload scans of the new J-2’s passport, and financial documentation that proves the J-1 can pay for the support of the J-2 in addition to the J-1’s academic expenses The J-1 must go to ISS to visit with an advisor after submitting the form and once the form is in the ‘Pending Review’ status An ISS advisor will create new DS-2019s for the primary J-1 and the new J-2 How to get your J-2 DS-2019 if J-1 primary's DS-2019 was not issued by KU Contact the institution that issued the J-1 primary’s current DS-2019 for instructions on how to get a J-2 DS-2019. Evidence of financial support for both the J-1 and J-2 without the J-2 having to work Past 4 months of bank statements or proof of a GTA/GRA/scholarship are acceptable (a letter from the bank with current balance is insufficient) New primary J-1 parent or spouse’s updated DS-2019 New primary J-1 parent or spouse’s I-94 (front and back) Printout of I-94 electronic record or paper card (front & back) New primary J-1 parent or spouse’s visa used to enter the U.S. and any Change of Status I-797 Approval Notice obtained after entry New primary J-1 parent or spouse’s passport page(s) showing photo, name, date of birth and expiration date Proof of relationship between J-1 and J-2 (marriage or birth certificate; as appropriate) Letter explaining interest in traveling, plans to go home and ties to home country (non-immigrant intent) Evidence of financial support Past 4 months of bank statements are acceptable (a letter from the bank with current balance is insufficient) Evidence of return air ticket home Download and print your change of status document guide 2. Apply to the USCIS for a change of status Prepare the Application and Biometric Fees You must pay two fees: Application Filing Fee: $370 per application Biometric Services Fee: $85 per person in application as an applicant or co-applicant To pay by money order or U.S. check (recommended), make check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. To pay by credit card (possible but not recommended due to a number of rejections causing a 1-month delay in processing), complete the fillable PDF, print and sign Form G-1450. Include payment on the top of your application materials. Complete the Change of Status Application Form I-539 Download Form I-539 "Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status". Type your responses on the form following USCIS instructions, then print the completed form and sign it. If applying with dependents, include Form I-539A completed and signed by each dependent. Optional: Complete the Form G-1145 to get electronic notification that USCIS has received your application Download Form G-1145 Type your responses on the form and include a printed copy with your application materials. Optional: Make a 1 hour appointment with ISS to have your application reviewed Include all prepared documentation as described above Mail your Application, Fee, and Documents to USCIS ISS suggests that you mail the application in a manner that guarantees proof of delivery (e.g. certified mail). The mailing address depends on the postal carrier you choose: For US Postal Service For Non-US Postal Service (such as UPS, Fed-Ex, etc.) USCIS P.O Box 660166 Dallas, TX 75266 USCIS ATTN: I-539 2501 S. State Highway 121 Business Suite 400 Lewisville, TX 75067 3. After you submit your application Check your status by clicking on the 'Services' tab and the 'Check your Case Status' link. If you move or change your address while your change of status is still pending: Notify USCIS. The U.S. Post Office will NOT forward any correspondence from USCIS even if you have a mail forwarding request on file. 4. If your change of status is approved You will be given a new I-94 for the new status and are eligible for all the benefits of the new status, but this does not change the visa in your passport. It is okay to remain in the U.S. in the new status with a visa in your passport from your old category, but if you travel outside the U.S. you will have to apply for a new visa in the new category in order to return to the U.S. in the new category. 5. Report change of status approval to ISS Bring proof of your change of status to ISS: If you are a new student, upload the approval notice through your pre-arrival checklist in iHawk before orientation. If you have already completed your new student ISS checkin, bring your approval notice and visit with an ISS advisor. If you are a currently enrolled (continuing) student, bring your approval notice and visit with an ISS advisor. Change Your Status by Traveling and Re-Entering the U.S. In order to change your status by traveling outside of the U.S. and re-entering, you must apply and interview for your new visa category at a U.S. embassy or consulate outside of the United States. The Consulate Officer at the embassy or consulate will consider issuing your requested visa stamp based on your visa application materials and your in-person interview. The amount of time this method will take varies by embassy. Check the visa wait times at your embassy. It is best to apply for your new visa in your home country, or in a country that accepts "third country national" applications if travel to your home country is not possible. Not all embassies and consulates will accept "third country national" applications, so make sure you check with the embassy where you plan to apply before you make your travel arrangements. Make sure you allow extra time for the visa application process, including sitting for the in-person interview and for any visa processing delays that you may encounter. ISS primarily advises students who are changing to an F or J category status. If you are planning on changing to a category other than F or J, you may visit with an ISS advisor for general information or you may consider contacting a qualified immigration attorney. 1. Gather all documentation for the visa application Each U.S. Embassy and Consulate has different requirements for the documentation you will be asked to present during your in-person interview. It is best to have all documentation prepared and with you at the interview, even if the Consulate Officer does not end up asking to review the document. Find the website for the embassy where you will be applying for a visa, and determine which documents your embassy will require you to present during the interview. I am in F-1F-2J-1J-2H-1BH-4B-1B-2E-2 status now. I plan to apply for a F-1F-2J-1J-2B-2 visa outside of the U.S. If you are subject to the two-year home residency requirement, it is possible to change your status by traveling outside of and re-entering the U.S., however you will still be due to fulfill the requirement in the future. Common documents you will be required to present at your visa interview: Applicant’s passport page(s) showing name, photo, date of birth and expiration date Confirmation page of the application form DS-160 A photograph of the applicant, taken within the last 6 months Any other documents required by your specific embassy or consulate F-1 I-20 (just pages 1 & 2; be sure to sign at the bottom of page 1) How to get your F-1 I-20 For students currently enrolled at KU Login to iHawk Click on 'ISS Services for All Students' Click on 'Change of Status to F-1 I-20 Request' and submit all forms in this e-form group. Forms 1 - 3 can be submitted in any order Form 4 becomes available only after forms 1 - 3 are submitted. Once you submit form 4, you must visit with an ISS immigration advisor in order to have your request reviewed and the change of status I-20 issued. For new students Apply for and be admitted to KU. On your application, make sure you indicate what status you are in now and what status you are requesting to be in during your studies at KU After you have been admitted (and after you have accepted your admission if you are a graduate student), you will receive an email from ISS asking you to complete several forms in iHawk Once you have completed the forms in iHawk, an ISS Document Specialist will review the E-forms and may contact you for additional information After a final review of all of your E-forms, documents and additional informatino, your I-20 will be issued I-901 SEVIS fee payment receipt Pay the SEVIS fee. Learn more about how to pay the SEVIS fee. Evidence of financial support: Past four months of bank statements or proof of GTA/GRA/scholarship are acceptable (a letter from the bank with current balance is insufficient) F-2 dependent I-20 (just pages 1 & 2; make sure F-1 signs at the bottom of page 1) How to get your F-2 I-20 if F-1 primary is a KU Student Your new primary F-1 must request to add you as their depenent F-2 by: Primary F-1 logs in to their iHawk Primary F-1 clicks on ‘F-1 Student Services’ in the menu and then ‘I-20 Requests’ Click on ‘Start a New Request’ Click on ‘I-20 Add Dependents(s)' Complete the form. You will need to upload scans of the new F-2’s passport, and financial documentation that proves the F-1 can pay for the support of the F-2 in addition to the F-1’s academic expenses The F-1 (and F-2?) must go to ISS to visit with an advisor after submitting the form and while the form is in the ‘Pending Review’ status An ISS advisor will create new I-20s for the primary F-1 and the new F-2 How to get your F-20 I-20 if F-1 primary is not a KU Student Contact the institution that issued the F-1 primary’s current I-20 for instructions on how to get an F-2 I-20. New primary F-1's updated I-20 New primary F-1's I-94 Printout of I-94 electronic record or paper card (front & back) New primary F-1's visa New primary F-1’s passport page(s) with name, date of birth and passport expiration Proof of relationship between F-1 and F-2 (marriage or birth certificate; as appropriate) New, original DS-2019; be sure to sign exchange visitor certification I-901 SEVIS fee payment receipt Evidence of financial support. USCIS Form I-134 is recommended. Other evidence that may be sufficient: Past 4 months of bank statements (a letter from the bank is insufficient) J-2 dependent DS-2019 (have J-1 sign at the bottom before submitting) How to get your J-2 DS-2019 if J-1 primary's DS-2019 was issued by KU Your new primary J-1 (parent or spouse) must request to add you as their dependent J-2 by: New primary J-1 logs in to their iHawk New primary J-1 clicks on ‘J-1 Student Services’ in the menu and then ‘DS-2019 Requests’ Click on ‘Start a New Request’ Click on ‘DS-2019 Add Dependents(s)’ Complete the form. You will need to upload scans of the new J-2’s passport, and financial documentation that proves the J-1 can pay for the support of the J-2 in addition to the J-1’s academic expenses The J-1 must go to ISS to visit with an advisor after submitting the form and once the form is in the ‘Pending Review’ status An ISS advisor will create new DS-2019s for the primary J-1 and the new J-2 How to get your J-2 DS-2019 if J-1 primary's DS-2019 was not issued by KU Contact the institution that issued the J-1 primary’s current DS-2019 for instructions on how to get a J-2 DS-2019. Evidence of financial support for both the J-1 and J-2 without the J-2 having to work Past 4 months of bank statements or proof of a GTA/GRA/scholarship are acceptable (a letter from the bank with current balance is insufficient) New primary J-1 parent or spouse’s updated DS-2019 New primary J-1 parent or spouse’s I-94 (front and back) Printout of I-94 electronic record or paper card (front & back) New primary J-1 parent or spouse’s visa used to enter the U.S. and any Change of Status I-797 Approval Notice obtained after entry New primary J-1 parent or spouse’s passport page(s) showing photo, name, date of birth and expiration date Proof of relationship between J-1 and J-2 (marriage or birth certificate; as appropriate) Letter-explaining interest in traveling, plans to go home and ties to home country (non-immigrant intent) Evidence of financial support- Past 4 months of bank statements are acceptable (a letter from the bank with current balance is insufficient) Evidence of return air ticket home Download and print your change of status document guide 2. Travel outside of the U.S. 3. Apply for your visa interview Complete the DS-160 online visa application. Print and keep the DS-160 barcode (confirmation) page. Find the embassy or consulate where you intend to apply for your visa. Follow the embassy's online instructions for scheduling a visa interview and paying the visa fee. Consult the embassy or consulate where you will apply as to what materials are required for your interview. 4. Attend your visa interview 5. Enter the U.S. with the new visa and any other applicable documents for the new category 6. Report your new status to ISS Bring proof of your change/new status to ISS: If you are a new student, upload the most recent entry I-94 in the new status through your pre-arrival checklist in iHawk before orientation. If you are a currently enrolled (continuing) student, bring your new I-94 in the new status and visit with an ISS advisor. KU Today Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » Contact International Support Services iss@ku.edu 785-864-3617 Routes through main campus 1450 Jayhawk Boulevard Strong Hall, Room 2 Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Emergency After Hours Phone: 785-380-8937 Technical issues with this webpage? email iss@ku.edu Issues with iHawk? email ihawk@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login