Jump to main content User menu Contact Directory Search form Search × AV Services Main menu Home Logistics and Customer Service Broadcast Center Broadcast Center Production Projects Classroom and Event Support AV Design News AV Services Virtual Support Room (available M-F 8:30a-4:30p ET) https://princeton.zoom.us/j/6092582000 Logistics and Customer Service Audio/Video Services' gateway for requesting and reserving on-site A/V Services support in campus spaces. Broadcast Center Explore our services, including on-location video production and live streaming, state of the art studios, and a direct link to national and global networks. Classroom and Event Technology Support Provides audio-visual support for Princeton classes and University events. News View All News Important: Service Request Update We recently transitioned support requests from Service Now (SN@P) to the EMS scheduling system. This link,... Read more > New AV Services Charges for the Classroom & Events Technology Team AV Services is developing new and exciting service offerings! Read more > Introducing the Logistics and Customer Service Group Audio/Video Services' gateway for requesting and reserving on-site A/V Services support in campus spaces. Read more > Video: Learning Space 2019 Renovations The AV Services Classroom and Events team worked with campus partners to renovate 32 learning spaces as part of the new... Read more > New Princeton Learning Space Initiative Princeton has started a new Learning Space Initiative that will address technology and infrastructure across all campus classrooms. Read more > Broadcast Center and McGraw Collaboration: Campus Technology Magazine The Broadcast Center and the McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning were recently highlighted in a feature article in Campus Technology magazine... Read more > Classroom Search Tool The University has several state-of-the art video conferencing facilities ideal for small professional meetings or teaching. Read more > AV Services Princeton University 1-E-13 Green Hall Princeton, NJ 08544 Phone: 609-258-3196 avservices@princeton.edu Secondary menu University Services Media Central Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University