Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) On This Page: Verify You Need a Reprint Obtain a New Travel Signature Replace a Lost or Missing DS-2019 Request a DS-2019 Reprint Related Resources and Contact Verify You Need a Reprint Use this page if you need to request a DS-2019: ✓ To obtain a new travel signature ✓ To replace a lost or missing DS-2019 Obtain a New Travel Signature What is a Travel Signature? A travel signature is relevant only to J-1 scholars (and their dependents) who are planning to travel abroad and return to the U.S. in J status. You do not need a travel signature to leave the U.S. Check to See if You Need a Travel Signature Now You will need an unexpired travel signature on the date you re-enter the U.S. You should use your most recently issued DS-2019 for travel. See below for how long your travel signature is valid: Scholar J-1 Scholar (DS-2019) Validity / Length A travel signature on page one on your DS-2019 is valid for 12 months or until the end date on your DS-2019, whichever is earlier. Follow the instructions below to request a DS-2019 reprint in Compass. See ISSO’s Documents Needed for Travel page for the complete list of documents you need when traveling. *Not enough time to receive the DS-2019 before your return to the U.S.? Our maximum processing time is 5 business days, however, our office makes every effort to process requests as quickly as possible. Go here for information about returning to the U.S. without all required documents and requesting an I-515A at the Port of Entry. Replace a Lost or Missing DS-2019 You forgot to bring your DS-2019 with you or lost it while traveling. Don’t panic! We can replace it. Follow the instructions below to request a DS-2019 reprint in Compass. Request a DS-2019 Reprint Log in to Compass to request your new DS-2019: ISSO Morningside / Manhattanville J-1 Scholars ISSO Medical Campus (CUIMC) J-1 Scholars Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Compass will require you to upload your most recent I-94 Arrival Record (NOT your travel history) Expand all Collapse all What to do if you have a problem retrieving your I-94 record If you have a problem retrieving your I-94 arrival record, call the immigration office at either JFK or Newark airport (regardless of where you arrived) to speak with Deferred Inspection. Be sure to have all of your documents ready when you make the call. Deferred Inspection can usually locate your record and make a correction (if needed) while you're on the phone, so that you can access and print the corrected record. JFK Airport (718) 553-3683 or (718) 553- 3684 Monday to Thursday, 9 a.m. - 2 p.m. Newark Airport (973) 565-8000, ext. 8010 or 8011 Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. - 11 a.m. We will email you when the DS-2019 reprint is ready We will notify you within 5 business days by email when your new DS-2019 with an updated travel signature is ready to be mailed. You should keep all copies of your DS-2019s but travel with the most recently issued one. Don't forget to check our Documents Needed to Travel page to be sure you have everything you need to re-enter the United States. Related Information Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada, Mexico, and the Adjacent Islands Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Travel Signatures for F-1 and J-1 Students Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close