Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Students Applying to Change Your Status in the U.S. Applying to Change Your Status in the U.S. On this page Before You Begin Eligibility How to Apply Traveling Abroad Before You Begin If you are currently in the U.S. in another status and need to change to F-1 student status, you have two options: Apply for your I-20 and travel outside the U.S. to apply for an F-1 visa. Apply for a Change of Status with USCIS (US Citizenship and Immigration Services) Expand all Collapse all We strongly recommend that you travel abroad to apply for your F-1 visa. Why we do not recommend Change of Status with USCIS The processing time is at least 10 months and cannot be expedited. You must be in a lawful non-immigrant visa status at the time of filing the change of status application. You are not in F-1 status until USCIS approves your application. Therefore, you are not eligible for any F-1 benefits, such as employment. If you leave the U.S. while your application is pending, USCIS will consider it “abandoned” and will deny it. USCIS may request additional information which will delay your application. If you are in B-1 or B-2 status you cannot enroll in classes until your application has been approved. If you are approved, your status in the US will change to F-1, but if you plan to travel outside of the U.S., you will need to obtain an F-1 visa in your passport in order to return. If you are unable to travel and need to apply for a change of status with USCIS: Contact an experienced immigration attorney Apply for an I-20 Meet eligibility requirements Eligibility ✓ You must be in a lawful status at the time of filing your application. ✓ Your most recent entry was not through the visa waiver program (ESTA) ✓ You are not subject to the J-1 two-year home residency requirement How to Apply for a Change of Status with USCIS Apply for your I-20 Follow our instructions for Applying for your I-20. Prepare required documents 1. Document Form I-539 completed for change of status Description Access I-539 instructions here. 2. Document Form G-1145 Description This form allows USCIS to notify you by email and/or text message that they have accepted your application. 3. Document $370 USCIS application fee. Additional $85 Biometrics fee for you and each dependent. (Fees are not required if you are on an A or G visa.) Description Pay with personal check from a U.S. checking account, cashier's check from a bank, or money order, payable to the "U.S. Department of Homeland Security." Write "USCIS I-539" in the memo line. We do not recommend using the Credit Card form G-1450 due to reported issues. 4. Document Letter of Explanation Description See a sample letter here. 5. Document Proof of SEVIS Fee Payment Description 6. Document Copy of visa stamp Description Or a copy of your I-797 Approval Notice if you previously changed status in the US 7. Document Your most recent I-94 arrival record Description 8. Document Additional documents related to your current status Description If you are: on a work visa, three of your most recent pay stubs on an A or G visa, your I-566 approval form 9. Document Photocopy of your I-20 Description Sign the bottom of page 1 of your I-20 or your application will be delayed. 10. Document Copies of financial documents used when you applied for the I-20 Description 11. Document Photocopy of your valid passport identification page Description 12 Document I-539A for each dependent who is here with you Description Each dependent requires an I-539A form, regardless of age. Access the I-539A instructions here. Also include a copy of each dependent's: most recent I-94 arrival record visa stamp and passport ID pages showing identity and expiration date documents related to their current status (e.g. I-20 for F-2, DS-2019 for J-2, I-797 approval for H-4) marriage certificate (spouse) birth certificate (child) 13. Document Photocopy of each dependent's I-20 Description Mail by certified mail or by courier to: USCIS ATTN: I-539 2501 S. State Highway 121 Business Suite 400 Lewisville, TX 75067 Email the ISSO Email your receipt number and a copy of your I-797 receipt to the ISSO for your campus. Morningside campus: [email protected] ISSO-CUIMC: [email protected] Attend your biometrics appointment You will receive a notice from USCIS with the date, time and location of your appointment Update the ISSO Notify us if you receive any other notices from USCIS or need to travel. Traveling Abroad While application is pending: If you leave the U.S. while your application is pending with USCIS, it will be considered abandoned and you'll need to obtain a new I-20 from us. You will need to apply for an F-1 visa at a U.S. consulate to return. After change of status is approved: If you travel after approval, you'll need to apply for an F-1 visa at a U.S. consulate to return. Related Information About Your Visa Applying for Your Visa Guidelines to Maintaining Status (Students) I-539, Application To Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status Sample Letter of Explanation I-94 Arrival Record Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close