Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Visa Sponsorship Overview Visa Sponsorship Overview Academic departments play a major role in bringing international faculty and researchers to Columbia. We acknowledge and appreciate the work you do in collaborating with us in getting members of this extraordinary talent pool to the university. On this page: Whom Do We Sponsor? J-1 Scholar J-1 Student Intern H-1B O-1 E-3 TN PR Whom Do We Sponsor? We provide visa sponsorship for specific titles. Titles eligible for sponsorship are determined by the academic unit in consultation with the Provost’s Office (Morningside or Manhattanville) or Office of Faculty Affairs (CUIMC). These include: Officer-level collaborative research appointments Officer-level instructional appointments Visiting Scholars invited by a faculty sponsor to use Columbia resources to conduct independent, non-collaborative research Research technicians at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) Officers of Administration under certain, limited circumstances which are governed by both federal regulation and University policy as described by visa type below. Questions about visa sponsorship eligibility? Hiring managers can contact ISSO on the Morningside/Manhattanville or CUIMC campuses for further guidance on sponsorship. Visa classifications and eligibility criteria are described below. J-1 Scholar Unlike other visa types, the J-1 Exchange Visitor Program has multiple purposes and categories. Learn more about J-1 Scholar Characteristics. J-1 Student Intern It is generally used for students who do not have the equivalent of a bachelor's degree and are currently enrolled in a degree program abroad. They are coming to Columbia to engage in research-based internships that are integral to the curriculum of the home-school degree program to which they will return. Federal regulations prohibit J-1 Exchange Visitor visa sponsorship for administrative or technical positions. Learn more information and how to sponsor or extend a J-1 Student Intern. H-1B Specialty Occupation H-1 B is frequently used for full-time instructional and research appointments. The position needs to qualify as a “specialty occupation” that requires a “theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialized knowledge, and attainment of a bachelor's or higher degree, or its equivalent, as a minimum requirement” at a wage that meets the higher of the prevailing wage or the actual wage, and the applicant must have a degree directly related to the offered position. This means both the position and the scholar must meet H-1B eligibility criteria. An administrative position does not qualify unless it can be demonstrated by the unit director/dean that it is critical to the functions of the department or the University. Learn how to sponsor or extend an H-1B. O-1 Extraordinary Ability O-1 status is for people who are recognized as being at the very top of their field within the sciences, arts, education, business or athletics and who will be employed at Columbia University in this area of extraordinary ability. An O-1 petition requires a great deal of evidence. Due to the extensive documentation requirements, it is used only when: there are no other appropriate visa options available the person already holds O-1 status and requires concurrent O-1 sponsorship from Columbia Learn how to sponsor or extend an O-1. E-3 for citizens of Australia E-3 status is for Australians in a full-time “specialty occupation” that requires a “theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialized knowledge, and attainment of a bachelor's or higher degree, or its equivalent, as a minimum requirement” at a wage that meets the higher of the prevailing wage or the actual wage. An administrative position does not qualify unless it can be demonstrated by the unit director/dean that it is critical to the functions of the department or the University. Learn how to sponsor or extend an E-3. TN for citizens of Canada and Mexico TN status is available to Canadian and Mexican citizens who are coming to the US to engage in specified professional activities under provisions of the NAFTA treaty. Learn how to sponsor or extend a TN. PR Permanent Residence The ISSO assists sponsoring schools, departments, institutes and their qualifying foreign national employees with the employment-based permanent residence process. All Columbia-sponsored employment-based permanent residence cases must be approved by, and coordinated through, the ISSO. Learn how to sponsor a Permanent Residency. Related Information J-1 Scholar Characteristics Sponsoring and Extending J-1 Student Intern Sponsoring or Extending an H-1B Sponsoring or Extending an O-1 Sponsoring or Extending an E-3 Sponsoring or Extending a TN Sponsoring Permanent Residency Allowable Payments by Visa Type I-9 Handbook for Employers Immigration Attorney List Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close