Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Students J-1 Academic Training (AT) J-1 Academic Training (AT) Academic Training is a benefit of J-1 student status that allows you to work —either paid or unpaid — for the purpose of applying knowledge and skills learned during your program of study. On this page Eligibility Before You Apply How to Apply What to do After Academic Training Has Been Approved Complete an Academic Training Evaluation Form Traveling on AT Eligibility You may use Academic Training during your program of study (Pre-Completion AT) or immediately following the completion of your degree program (Post-Completion AT). To be eligible, you must: ✓ Have an unexpired DS-2019 issued by Columbia. If you are under the sponsorship of any other J-1 Exchange Visitor program (ie.,IIE, AMIDEAST, etc.), you need to contact your sponsoring agency. ✓ Be in good academic standing with Columbia University ✓ Have completed one semester ✓ Have an offer of employment that is directly related to your major field of study, and confirmed by your academic adviser. Before You Apply Expand all Collapse all Duration of Academic Training Academic Training cannot exceed the period of time you spend in your academic program in J-1 student status. Your J-1 status begins on your arrival date or program start date, whichever is later. Degree Bachelors Work Length 18 months or the length of your program Notes Whichever is shorter Degree Masters Work Length 18 months or the length of your program Notes Whichever is shorter. For example, if you are in a nine-month degree program, such as the LL.M., your AT is limited to nine months Degree Doctoral Work Length 18 months with the possibility to extend up to 36 months. Notes You will need to submit a new application and trainee fee for the extension. When to Apply / Deadline You may apply for AT during and/or after the completion of your degree program. Time During your program When to Apply Two weeks before the employment begins Time After your program (Post-Completion AT) When to Apply Before you complete your program or before the program end date on your DS-2019 (whichever is earlier) Work Hours You may work only for a certain number of hours (as shown below). Any time that is authorized during your program will be deducted at a fulltime rate, regardless of hours, from the total amount of time allowed after you finish. When Summer, during your program Part-time (20 or less hrs/week) ✓ Full-time (more than 20 hrs/week) ✓ When Fall /Spring Semester, during your program Part-time (20 or less hrs/week) ✓ Full-time (more than 20 hrs/week) ✓ (Full-time allowed only if you are in a doctoral program and have finished all your requirements except for your dissertation) When After your program (Post-Completion AT) Part-time (20 or less hrs/week) ✓ (All AT is calculated at a full-time rate) Full-time (more than 20 hrs/week) ✓ How to Apply Are you applying for Pre-Completion AT? Skip Step #1--there is no Administrative Fee. Pay the $360 AT Administration Fee (for Post-Completion AT only) You remain in J-1 status under Columbia’s sponsorship with an active SEVIS record during post-completion AT. Doctoral students will pay a second fee if granted the 18-month extension. Gather your documents ✓ Letter of recommendation from your adviser Review our sample Adviser Recommendation letter ✓ Upload Your Employment Letter Review our sample AT Employer Letter ✓ Most recent I-94 Arrival Record This must show your most recent arrival in J-1 status admitted until "D/S" Log in to Compass to submit your application Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside J-1 Students Loading... ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) J-1 Students Loading... Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. We will contact you Allow up to 10 business days for us to review and process your application. We will notify you by email when your new DS-2019 and AT authorization letter is ready to be picked up. Review, sign and date your new DS-2019 Use it when you travel. The travel signature (endorsement) is valid for 12 months or until your program end date, whichever is earlier. Keep all previously issued I-20s and DS-2019s. You may need them in the future. What to Do After AT Has Been Approved Expand all Collapse all Before your start date Apply for a Social Security Number (if you don’t have one) On your start date Be prepared to show your employer: ✓ AT authorization letter ✓ Your passport ✓ DS-2019 ✓ I-94 arrival record as evidence of your J-1 status During the academic year (Pre-Completion AT) You must: ✓ Maintain full-time registration ✓ Continue to be in good academic standing After graduation (Post-Completion AT) You continue to be in J-1 status, and therefore must: ✓ Maintain health insurance coverage for yourself and any J-2 dependents throughout your Academic Training ✓ Submit a new AT application for any change in employer ✓ Let us know if you are ending AT employment earlier than the approved date and are leaving the U.S. ✓ Depart the US before the end of your 30-day grace period when your Academic Training period is over Complete an Academic Training Evaluation Form Complete an Academic Training Evaluation Form (for both pre-completion and post-completion AT) when you: Change employers End your employment on Academic Training Please click the appropriate link below to log in to Compass to complete and submit an evaluation form: ISSO Morningside J-1 Students ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) J-1 Students Traveling During Authorized AT Expand all Collapse all Pre-completion AT When you have Academic Training authorized during your academic program, it does not affect the documents you need to return to the United States. See our Documents Needed to Travel page for information on what you need as a student in J-1 status. Post-Completion AT While you are on Post-Completion AT, you remain in J-1 status even though you are no longer an enrolled student. If you have plans to travel abroad during this period, you need to know in advance what to have with you to return to the U.S. in J-1 status, so you don't jeopardize your AT authorization. Do not come back to the U.S. in any status other than J-1! Visit our Documents Needed to Travel page for information on returning to the U.S. with J-1 Post-Completion Academic Training. Related Information Social Security Number Application Link to Payment of AT Administration Fee I-9 Handbook for Employers Social Security Information for Employers Exemption from Social Security tax Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close