Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Students Guidelines to Maintaining Status (Students) Guidelines to Maintaining Status (Students) You have come to Columbia to pursue academic objectives and that’s where your focus belongs. By being aware of and complying with the following regulations, you will avoid problems that can interfere with your program of study. How to Maintain Your Lawful F/J Student Status Expand all Collapse all 1 Report your first arrival at Columbia with the SEVIS Report form Please follow the instructions at Reporting Your Arrival in the first week. This will activate your SEVIS record. It's mandatory! 2 Register for full-time enrollment every fall and spring semester If the summer term is a required part of your academic program, you must register full-time. If not, it is considered a vacation period and is optional. Use the scheduled registration dates on the Registrar's webpage Full-time enrollment may differ from school to school, but generally it is: 12 points for Columbia schools and programs that use the credit point system for registration (except for Law and Social Work, OR one residence unit for schools/programs using the RU system If you’re not sure if you’re enrolled full-time, check your enrollment status at Student Services OnLine (SSOL )or check with your school. Online classes: You can count only ONE online class toward your minimum number of credits required for your full-time enrollment. For example, you can take one online 3-credit course toward the 12-credit minimum. If you want to take an additional online class for a 15-point course load, it is permitted because it's beyond the minimum required for full-time status. If you only need one course to complete your program of study in your final term, the course cannot be online or distance learning. 3 Reduced Course Load (RCL): Exceptions to full-time enrollment There are limited exceptions that may allow you to be registered for a “Reduced Course Load” (RCL). Final Term of a Degree Program. You are allowed to be less than full-time in the final term of your degree program if you do not need a full-time course load to complete degree requirements-- unless your academic program has a minimum registration requirement each term for all its students. This does not require permission or further action. Other eligible exceptions based on academic or medical reasons require you to receive authorization from us before dropping below full-time, withdrawing from classes, or taking a leave of absence. Follow these instructions to Request a Reduced Course Load 4 Do not work without authorization The only type of employment that does not require an application and written authorization is on-campus employment, up to 20 hours/week. Working without authorization is considered a serious violation of your immigration status. Learn more about employment options. 5 Update your U.S address every time you move (within 10 days) Follow the instructions for Changing Your Address. 6 Keep your I-20 / DS-2019 up-to-date While in the U.S., you must keep your I-20 / DS-2019 up-to-date by informing us of any pertinent changes. Here are the changes you need to report: Apply for an extension before the end date if you need more time to complete your degree. Inform us if you are finishing earlier than the end date on your I-20 or DS-2019. We need to change the date, and you need to be informed of deadlines associated with the new completion date. Be sure you have a travel signature on your most recent I-20 or DS-2019 that will be less than 12 months old on the date you return from a trip abroad. Request a transfer of your SEVIS record to another school if you are going to continue your studies elsewhere. Inform us if you are beginning a new program at Columbia. You will need a new COE (I-20/DS-2019) for it. Inform us if you are leaving Columbia program before completing your program. Inform us if you are changing to another nonimmigrant status or if you become a permanent resident (“green card” holder). 7 Keep your passport unexpired for at least six months into the future Learn how to renew your passport here. 8 Be sure to have the correct documents with you when you travel It is very important that your travel documents are up-to-date to avoid any problems at your departure airport when you’re returning to the U.S. and at a U.S. port of entry when you arrive. Check our Documents Needed to Travel page well in advance of a planned trip. It is also important to access your electronic I-94 arrival record every time you enter the US. to check that your admission was recorded correctly as F or J until “D/S” (duration of status). 9 F-1 only: Be sure you follow OPT reporting requirements in a timely manner You risk losing your status if you don’t report Post-completion OPT and STEM OPT updates as described on our OPT Reporting webpage. The ISSO will send you reminder emails, so be sure to pay attention to them. 10 Leave the U.S. before your grace period expires Once you have completed your studies and any authorized post-graduation employment under F-1 or J-1 status, you have an additional grace period that allows you to remain in the U.S. to prepare for departure. F-1 status: 60 days J-1 status: 30 days Learn more about your grace period and other information relevant to your final term. 11 Comply with your U.S. Tax-filing Requirement IRS Form 8843 is required for F and J students and their dependents even if you had no U.S. income. ISSO provides you free access to Sprintax, a nonresident tax preparation system to complete the 8843 if you had no US income and a nonresident federal tax return in addition to the 8843 if you do have income to report. 12 Don't apply for or accept governmental Public Benefits When applying for a nonimmigrant visa, applicants have to document that they have the financial resources to support themselves and any family members with them. Accepting taxpayer-funded public benefits can jeopardize your legal status and future visa applications, change of status applications and admission to the U.S. if it is determined that you could become a public burden. Public benefits that count towards the "public charge inadmissibility" rule broadly include any Federal, State, or local cash assistance for income maintenance, SNAP (commonly known as food stamps), certain government housing programs, and Medicaid. Refer to the USCIS Public Charge Fact Sheet for additional information. And don't forget! Expand all Collapse all Keep a copy of all documents related to your immigration status You may need them in the future: to document your employment history and your compliance with U.S. immigration regulations for future USCIS and/or visa applications You have two statuses at Columbia As an international student, you have an academic status with your school of enrollment and an F or J immigration status. Immigration Essentials Watch our video for a summary of How to Maintain Your Status Guidelines to Maintaining Status Related Information Columbia Student Services Online (SSOL) Reporting Your First Arrival (F and J) Requesting a Reduced Courseload (RCL) Address Changes Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Travel Signatures and Passport Renewal Maintaining Status for Dependents Employment Options Study Abroad with Student Status Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close