Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Students Extending Your Current Program (F and J Students) Extending Your Current Program (F and J Students) F-1 and J-1 student regulations require you to be full-time every term and to make normal progress toward your degree, so it’s unusual to need more time. However, there may be extraordinary circumstances. Read on to see if you qualify and how to proceed. Expand all Collapse all Before You Apply Reasons for Extension ✓ You changed majors or programs or added a dual degree ✓ There was a significant change of your thesis/dissertation topic or you had research problems ✓ You need to make up for time you lost when you were authorized a reduced course load (RCL) for academic or health reasons ✓ You need to compensate for time missed during a leave of absence When to Apply Apply for your extension at least two weeks before your I-20 or DS-2019 expires. Your Certificate of Eligibility (I-20 or DS-2019) cannot be extended after the program end date. How to Apply to Extend Your Current Program Get your Academic Advisor's recommendation The letter (or printed email) must: be from your academic advisor or dean (or someone in a similar academic position who is aware of your situation) detail the specific reason(s) for requiring more time include your expected completion date Special procedures School SEAS M.S. Students Description Your department must send an extension request to the Office of Graduate Student Affairs (OGSA). If approved, the OGSA will email the approval for you to print for the application. School GSAS Doctoral Students Description Your letter may come from your dissertation advisor or the DGS (Director of Graduate Studies). The letter should include your expected completion date. Gather your documents ✓ Document Letter (or printed email) from your academic advisor or dean Description See step 1 above for requirements ✓ Document Financial Certification Form Description Save the form and edit from your computer. Do not edit in a website browser or you will lose all your data. If you have dependents include them in your application. ✓ Document Funding Documents as listed on your Financial Certification Form Description This should cover the tuition, fees and living expenses for the additional time. The form lists full academic year expenses. If you are extending for one semester, only calculate half the academic year. ✓ Document Most recent I-94 Arrival/Departure Record Description Click here to access your record. Log in to Compass with your UNI and password to submit your application Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside F-1 Students ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) F-1 Students ISSO Morningside J-1 Students ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) J-1 Students Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. We will contact you Allow up to 10 business days for us to review and process your application. F-1: If your request is approved, we will email your new digital Extension I-20 form for you to print with additional instructions. J-1: We will notify you by email when your new extended DS-2019 is ready to be shipped. Per Department of State J Regulations, digital DS-2019 forms are not permitted to be emailed. Review, sign and date your new I-20 / DS-2019 Use it when you travel. The travel signature on page 2 of your I-20 or page 1 of a DS-2019 is valid for 12 months or until your program end date, whichever is earlier. Keep all previously issued I-20s/DS-2019s. You may need them in the future. Related Information Applying for a Visa Documents Needed to Travel Reporting a Change of Address Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close