Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors Report Serious Situations (J-1) Report Serious Situations (J-1) Background on the J Exchange Visitor Program The U.S. Department of State (DOS) initiated and administers the J Exchange Visitor Program. Columbia University, at both its Morningside and Medical Center campuses, is proud to host more than 3,000 J exchange visitor research scholars, professors, student interns visiting from home country institutions, and students enrolled in a Columbia degree program. Serious Situations Both the Department of State and we at the university are concerned with the well-being and safety of our exchange visitors. We at the ISSO are here to assist the exchange visitor community with matters related to your J immigration status and the objectives that brought you to Columbia. Although unlikely, if at any point an exchange visitor becomes involved in a serious situation, we encourage them to reach out to us for assistance. Importantly, the same holds true for academic departments. We urge you to be alert to any severe or distressing incidents or situations that any of your students and scholars may experience and for which the ISSO should be made aware. Expand all Collapse all Examples of situations or incidents the ISSO should know about: Serious Illness or Injury (e.g., brain injury, severe burn, major surgery, communicable disease, serious mental health incidents, any condition requiring hospitalization of 48 hours or more, etc.) Missing Person Death Legal Issues (arrest, charges, law enforcement involvement, etc.) Violations of export control and intellectual property theft Lost or stolen passport Sexually-Related Incidents or Abuse (an incident or allegation involving sexual exploitation, harassment or abuse) Negative interactions in the workplace, such as any type of discrimination Other situations Impacting your visit or safety (e.g., natural disasters, civil unrest, outbreaks of violence) How to Report a Serious Situation There are a few ways the exchange visitor or academic department may contact us: Submit our Report form Call us Come to the ISSO to meet with an adviser We are always available to speak and assist in any way possible. Special Note In very serious situations, Columbia University, as a J-1 Exchange Visitor Program sponsor, may be obligated to report your situation to the Department of State. The DOS requires J-1 Exchange Visitor Program sponsors to report serious incidents involving J-1 students and scholars within 24 hours of an occurrence. Department of State Reporting Information More information about the reporting process to the DOS: Department of State Website DOS direct contact: [email protected] Contacting Other Offices Expand all Collapse all Emergency Contact Morningside's Public Safety Office 1- 212-854-5555 (24 hrs/day) CUMC's Public Safety Office 1- 212-305-8100 (24 hrs/day) Department of State 1-866-283-9090 (24 hrs/day) Additional Assistance on Columbia's Campuses Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Focused on promoting a workplace that is free of Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence and Stalking. Employees are encouraged to report such incidents. http://eoaa.columbia.edu Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Focused on promoting a workplace that is free of Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence and Stalking. Employees are encouraged to report such incidents. http://eoaa.columbia.edu Department of Public Safety http://publicsafety.columbia.edu/ Department of Public Safety http://publicsafety.columbia.edu/ University Compliance Hotline http://www.compliance.columbia.edu/hotline.html University Compliance Hotline http://www.compliance.columbia.edu/hotline.html The Ombuds Office Offers a confidential place to discuss workplace issues and academic concerns. http://ombuds.columbia.edu/ The Ombuds Office Offers a confidential place to discuss workplace issues and academic concerns. http://ombuds.columbia.edu/ Office of the University Chaplain Addresses issues of campus life in a diverse community of various religious backgrounds, beliefs, cultures, identities and values. http://ouc.columbia.edu/ Office of the University Chaplain Addresses issues of campus life in a diverse community of various religious backgrounds, beliefs, cultures, identities and values. http://ouc.columbia.edu/ Related Information ISSO Incident Report Form More information about the reporting process to the DOS Know Your Rights While Working in the U.S. Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Department of Public Safety University Compliance Hotline The Ombuds Office Office of the University Chaplain Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close