Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Students F-1 OPT (Optional Practical Training) During Your Degree Program F-1 OPT (Optional Practical Training) During Your Degree Program F-1 OPT (Optional Practical Training) During Your Degree Program Are you looking to gain practical experience during your time as a student? OPT (Optional Practical Training) is the most common way students in F-1 status obtain permission to work. On this Page question-circle icon What is OPT? check-square icon Eligibility clock icon Before You Apply listl icon Application Process calendar icon After You Submit Your Online USCIS Application id-card icon After You Receive Your EAD What is OPT? OPT (Optional Practical Training) is a benefit of F-1 student status that allows you to work off-campus in your field of study to gain practical experience. Eligibility ✓ You must be in active F-1 status in the U.S. at the time of application. The terms “active” and “initial” refer to your status in the SEVIS database, not to your enrollment in an academic program. Your SEVIS record is in “initial” status until you enter the U.S. and report your arrival to the ISSO, after which your SEVIS record is updated to "active". ✓ You must be enrolled in a full-time degree or qualifying certificate program in active F-1 status for at least one academic year (two consecutive semesters). You must arrive in the U.S. within 30 days from the start of classes during your first semester of entry in order for that term to count toward practical training eligibility. ✓ You have not used all 12 months of OPT at the same degree level. Before You Apply Expand all Collapse all When you can use OPT You may use OPT during and/or after your degree program if it is longer than one academic year (2 semesters). OPT during your program is referred to as Pre-Completion OPT. Obtaining OPT employment authorization is a two-part application Part 1. Submit an online application to the ISSO to obtain a new I-20 with the OPT recommendation printed on it. Part 2. Submit your OPT application with fee to USCIS (Citizenship and Immigration Services). It may take USCIS three months (or maybe more) to process your EAD (Employment Authorization Document), so you need to plan ahead--and apply as soon as possible. See "When to Apply" below. When to apply By, regulation, the earliest you may apply for pre-completion OPT is 90 days before your requested OPT start date. We recommend requesting a start date a few weeks earlier than the actual date you want to begin employment because of the unpredictable processing time of the EAD by USCIS. An earlier submission and an earlier approved start date builds in more time for any delay. We encourage you to apply to the ISSO as early as possible for the OPT I-20 because you need it for the OPT application you will submit to USCIS. You must be in the U.S. at the time you submit your OPT application to USCIS F-1 regulations require you to be in the U.S. in F-1 status at the time you apply for OPT. Your most recent I-94 admission record is among the required documentation. You have a maximum amount of OPT time for each degree level You get 12 months of OPT for each higher degree level you complete (Bachelor's, Master's, and PhD Degree). If you’re a student in in certain STEM fields (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math), you may be eligible for an extension of OPT for an additional 24 months. OPT time used during your program is deducted from post-graduation OPT Pre-Completion OPT is deducted from the 12 month total at graduation. For example: Part-time OPT is deducted at half the rate. For example: On-campus employment does not get deducted from OPT after graduation If you find on-campus employment, you don’t need to apply for OPT. Your F1 status allows you to work on-campus, regardless of whether it’s related to your field of study, and is not deducted from the time you’re allowed to work under OPT. Review our information on On-Campus Employment. You do not need an offer of employment to apply You do not need a job offer to apply for OPT but if you don't work you forfeit the authorized OPT time. Time Limits (Part-time and full-time) Part-Time is 20 hours or fewer per week. You are limited to part-time hours during the fall and/or spring term. You are also limited to part-time during the summer if: your program has a required summer term OR summer is your final term Full-Time is more than 20 hours per week. You may be full-time during the summer vacation period only if you will be continuing in the fall and summer is not a required term. Application Process Gather Your Documents and Information Use Compass to Submit ISSO Application We Will Contact You Receive Your OPT I-20 Submit your OPT Application Online to USCIS Application Process Gather Your Documents and Information for ISSO Application These are the documents you will upload when you log in to Compass to submit your application for the OPT I-20. Expand all Collapse all ISSO Application Document and Information Checklist 1. Copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record (not your travel history), which is evidence of F-1 status. Make sure the record indicates you were admitted until "D/S." 1. Copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record (not your travel history), which is evidence of F-1 status. Make sure the record indicates you were admitted until "D/S." 2. Copies of EAD cards from previous OPT applications, if any. If you are missing a copy of your EAD card(s), please include a short explanation. You may edit this sample letter for missing EAD cards. 2. Copies of EAD cards from previous OPT applications, if any. If you are missing a copy of your EAD card(s), please include a short explanation. You may edit this sample letter for missing EAD cards. 3. Your requested OPT start and end dates. Choose your dates carefully because any OPT time used during your program is deducted from the amount of time you have left when you graduate. You cannot apply more than 90 days in advance of your requested OPT start date, and your requested dates for an OPT I-20 cannot be changed. 3. Your requested OPT start and end dates. Choose your dates carefully because any OPT time used during your program is deducted from the amount of time you have left when you graduate. You cannot apply more than 90 days in advance of your requested OPT start date, and your requested dates for an OPT I-20 cannot be changed. Back to Application Process Use Compass to Submit Your Application Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside F-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC F-1 Students Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Back to Application Process We Will Contact You We will send a message to your Columbia email address when your digital OPT I-20 has been processed, which you will need for your USCIS application. Please note that 10 business days is the maximum processing time, not the average, and we will process your request as quickly as possible. Back to Application Process Receive Your OPT I-20 Review page 2 to verify the OPT dates you requested, then print and sign on page 1. You must submit your application within 30 days after the date this OPT I-20 was issued or it will be denied. Always use your most recent I-20 when you travel. The travel signature on page 2 is valid for 12 months or until your program end date, whichever is earlier. Keep all previously issued I-20s. You may need them in the future. Back to Application Process Submit Your OPT I-765 Application online through your USCIS account. After you have your OPT I-20, the online application is easy to use. Watch this short video on the many advantages of filing online as compared to mailing a paper application. ISSO highly recommends that you file online, but if you prefer to send a paper application, here is the checklist of documents and USCIS mailing address. The ISSO provides the following tips regarding the OPT application, however, please keep in mind that you are responsible for the accuracy of your application to USCIS and following their step-by-step instructions. Expand all Collapse all 1 Create or Log in to Your USCIS Account Follow instructions for creating a USCIS Online Account or log in to your USCIS account if you already have one. Select “File a Form Online” and choose “Application for Employment Authorization (I-765)”. Follow the instructions and complete each step in the order they are presented to you. 2 ISSO Tips for the Online Application You will find that the online application is user-friendly, but come back to check if you're not sure about any of these questions. “What is your eligibility category?” Choose ONLY “(c)(3)(A) Student Pre-Completion OPT”. “What is your reason for applying?” Choose the option “Initial permission for employment”. “U.S. Mailing Address” Be sure your U.S. mailing address on the I-765 will be valid for at least four - five months. If you do not have an address that will be valid for four - five months, you can enter the name and U.S. address of a friend or family member under “In Care Of Name (if any).” “Previously Authorized CPT or OPT” For CPT: Upload copy of your CPT I-20(s). For OPT: Upload copy of your EAD card(s). If you are missing I-20(s) or EAD card(s), upload a letter (template here). “I-94 Arrival and Departure Record” Copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record (not your travel history). Make sure the record indicates “Class of Admission: F1" and “Admit Until Date: D/S,” which stands for duration of status. “Status at last arrival” Scroll down to “F1 - F1 - Student, Academic Or Language Program.” “What is your A-Number?” This number is listed on your most recent EAD card, under “USCIS #.” If you do not have one or lost it then click the box “I do not have or know my A-Number”. “What is your USCIS Account Number?” If this is your first online application to USCIS, you will not have a USCIS Account Number yet. Click the box “I do not have or know my USCIS Online Account Number”. "Evidence: Proof of Enrollment" Academic Certification requested from your SSOL account. An academic certification is an official document provided by the University Registrar verifying dates of attendance, award of degree, and/or student status (full-time or part-time) by semester. “Application Fee” Pay the required application fee. Remember that once you pay the fee, there can be no changes to your application as it will be considered submitted. “Review and Submit” Check that that you are within the 30-day window after the date your Pre-Completion OPT I-20 was issued. Do not submit if it is outside this timeframe, and contact the ISSO for assistance. Verify that all information is correct and digitally sign and submit your application. 3 Linking a paper application to a USCIS account If you have already filed a paper application with USCIS, it is possible to link it to a USCIS account. This will enable you to view your case status and history, and have the options to send secure messages, view notices, upload additional evidence, and respond to Requests for Evidence. After mailing in your application to USCIS, you will receive an I-797 Notice of Action. This is your receipt notice which will contain the receipt number of your case. After receiving this notice and creating a USCIS account, click on “My account,” then “Add a paper filed case.”, and then enter your receipt number. Alternatively, if you did not file your case online but received a “USCIS Account Access Notice,” you will be able to use the Online Access Code indicated on the notice to add the case to your account. Back to Application Process After You Submit Your OPT Application Follow USCIS guidelines for tracking EAD card delivery. Monitor your application status via your USCIS account and sign up for USPS informed delivery to track the delivery of your documents. Normally, you will receive 2 updates from USCIS before the EAD. You do not need to contact us when you receive these two updates. If you receive other communication that requires follow up, contact the ISSO for assistance. 1. I-797 Receipt Notice with a case number. You will receive a case number immediately after submitting the online application.Check for accuracy in case there’s an error in your name or other information that needs to be corrected. 2. I-797 Approval Notice * USCIS is extending flexibilities to OPT applicants whose applications were received between October 1, 2020, through October 31, 2021, and experienced excessive delays in in processing. See our OPT FAQs. Expand all Collapse all USCIS Processing Time and EAD Delivery FAQs How long will my application take? The USCIS processing time of OPT applications can vary. Check USCIS Case Processing Times to find out how long I-765 applications are currently taking. If your case has been pending outside USCIS's listed case processing time for I-765 applications, submit an inquiry to USCIS via your online account. What do I tell my employer if they want me to start working as soon as possible? Unfortunately, it is not possible to know exactly when your OPT application will be approved, and you need the EAD in hand to begin employment. You may need to be flexible in regard to your OPT start date. Can I work without pay while waiting for my EAD card? Any activity that could be considered OPT employment cannot begin until you have your EAD card and are within the approved dates on the EAD card. You cannot work, paid or unpaid, for an employer until your EAD card arrives. Still job-hunting? Review the types of employment that are allowed for OPT. What happens if my OPT is approved after the start date I requested on my I-20? Generally, USCIS will adjust the start date on your EAD card to the date that USCIS approved your OPT. Can I travel while my OPT application is pending? Since you are currently enrolled and will return to the U.S. as a continuing student before the program end date on your I-20, your OPT application has no impact on your travel. It makes no difference whether the OPT application is pending or has already been approved. You need the usual documents that an F-1 student needs to return from a trip abroad. See our Documents Needed to Travel page for F-1 students. What if USCIS case status indicates that my EAD card is delivered but I did not receive it? Try one of these two methods: Use USPS’ Missing Mail and Lost Package Form to locate your envelope. Visit your local US Post Office and ask them for detailed scanning information about where and when your package was scanned. If USPS lost the EAD, attach a letter from the US Postal Service on official letterhead, stating that the USPS is responsible for the lost EAD, including the contact person from the US Post Office to send an email to the ISSO. Morningside: [email protected] CUIMC: [email protected] After You Receive Your EAD Expand all Collapse all Make a copy (front and back) of your EAD You should have already made a copy of your application materials before submitting your application to USCIS. Now add a copy of the EAD. You may need them for future immigration or visa applications. Apply for a Social Security Number (if you don't have one) If you do not already have an SSN, you are now eligible to apply on or after the start date on your EAD card. Related Information Social Security Number Application On-Campus Employment Unpaid Internships and Volunteering I-9 Handbook for Employers Exemption from Social Security Tax Social Security Information for Employers Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close