Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Students Study and Research Abroad with Student Status Study and Research Abroad with Student Status If you are about to embark on a study abroad program, or are leaving the U.S. for doctoral field work or MFA thesis project, learn how to maintain your status to avoid problems when you return to your program of study at Columbia. Expand all Collapse all Make sure you have the correct visa You may need to apply for a visa to enter the country in which you will study. Please check with the consulate of your destination for their visa requirements. Review Columbia's Global Travel website This GlobalTravel website centralizes information and tools for all members of the Columbia community whose study, research, or teaching involves international travel. Keep full-time enrollment through Columbia Make sure your registration record is up to date at the end of the first two weeks of the semester. This applies to students in Columbia study-abroad programs, and MFA and doctoral students conducting research toward their thesis/dissertation degree requirement. Check your registration record in SSOL to be sure you are registered for the term. Get a travel signature from us before leaving the U.S. This will maximize the time in which you can return to the U.S. without it expiring. A travel signature on your I-20 or DS-2019 is valid for 12 months from the date it is signed. Learn how to get a travel signature. Get a new I-20 or DS-2019 (if necessary) If you need a new travel signature while you are abroad, go to our webpage on Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints and follow instructions for obtaining an I-20/DS-2019 reprint with an updated travel signature. Do not break your student status by entering the U.S. in visitor status. Employment Eligibility When You Return to Columbia Expand all Collapse all F-1 and J-1 On-Campus Employment When you return to Columbia and are enrolled for the term, you continue to be eligible for on-campus employment, part-time during the academic year and full-time during a recess period. F-1 Summer OPT During Your Academic Program If you are abroad in the spring term, it may be difficult to get pre-completion OPT authorization for the summer because of timing issues. 1) The earliest you can apply is 90 days in advance of your requested start date 2) It can take 3 months or sometimes more for USCIS to process an application. You may want to consider working outside the U.S. instead. F-1 Post-Completion OPT If you are abroad in your final term, keep in mind that you will not be able to enter the U.S. after your I-20 program end date to apply for OPT. Return to the U.S. before the program end date and apply while you're here. 1) The earliest you can apply is 90 days in advance of your completion date. 2) It takes 2-3 months for USCIS to process an application. Refer to our webpage on Travel During OPT to learn about the documents you need to re-enter the U.S. J-1 Academic Training (AT) You are eligible for Academic Training when you come back to Columbia if you maintained your J-1 status with full-time enrollment while abroad. If you are abroad in your final term, you cannot return to the U.S. in J-1 status after the program end date of your DS-2019. You may need to travel back to the U.S. during your final term before the program end date to apply for AT, which will extend your DS-2019. Taxes If you are abroad during the spring term, you still need to comply with your tax filing obligations if you spent time in the U.S. during the previous calendar year. If you have income to report, the deadline for the tax return to be received by the tax authorities is generally April 15th. If you had no U.S. income you will need to send the IRS form 8843 to the IRS (Internal Revenue Service) by June 15th. Don't worry! We provide free access to Sprintax, a nonresident tax preparation software for your federal tax return. If you need to file a state tax return as well, you may choose to use Sprintax for an individual fee. Related Information Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints Maintaining Your Status U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Your Non-Resident Tax Forms (F and J) UEMS Shipping Information Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close