Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Department Responsibilities Department Responsibilities Working Together to Ensure Compliance We’ve created this page to help you better understand your responsibilities as a department. We need to work with you to follow University policy and ensure compliance with federal regulations, both at the institutional level and to safeguard each scholar's status. For Sponsorship of All Scholars Direct all immigration-related questions to us The ISSO is the only University office authorized to provide advice on immigration matters. Please direct all questions to us regarding appropriate visa classification (do not follow the guidance of the scholar or external counsel), a scholar’s employment eligibility, transfer of visa sponsorship, and eligibility for remuneration for future incidental activities. Follow university policy and comply with federal regulations All academic appointments (paid or unpaid) require U.S. work authorization. You at the departments, schools, and institutes are the crucial points of contact with our international scholars and faculty. Your oversight is essential. Before Initiating Visa Sponsorship Verify that the position is eligible For all positions, refer to our overview of scholar sponsorship page. Expand all Collapse all Scholars With Academic Appointments Verify that: the position is eligible for visa sponsorship the terms of an academic appointment comply with University policy. Consult with Human Resources, your department administration, and the Office of the Provost for Academic Appointments, as appropriate your scholar has been informed in the offer letter of the terms of the invitation or appointment including the title, dates, fees, and any Columbia funding or benefits eligibility J-1 Specific Additional Obligations Verify that: your J-1 Scholar or Student Intern possesses the English language proficiency necessary to successfully participate in the program and function on a day-to-day basis in an English-speaking environment. This is achieved through an objective assessment. the faculty sponsor has completed a DS-7002 Training/Internship Placement Plan (if you are bringing a J-1 student-intern) Scholars Designated as Visiting Scholars/Scientists Verify that: the research is independent and non-collaborative as described in the Faculty Handbook the faculty sponsor will assist in integrating the scholar into the Columbia community. The faculty sponsor is not a mentor or advisor, but rather an important personal and professional resource. J-1 Specific Additional Obligations Verify that: your J-1 Scholar or Student Intern possesses the English language proficiency necessary to successfully participate in the program and function on a day-to-day basis in an English-speaking environment. This is achieved through an objective assessment. the faculty sponsor has completed a DS-7002 Training/Internship Placement Plan (if you are bringing a J-1 student-intern) Initiate an application via the appropriate webpage A list of all scholar visa types are linked on our services page. Before Your Scholar Arrives Contact us if delays or travel changes occur Contact us if your scholar will be delayed more than 30 days beyond the intended start date will not be coming When Your Scholar Arrives J-1 Only: Orient your scholar Help us by: encouraging your scholar to attend one of our Orientation Sessions reminding your scholar to complete the SEVIS registration so we can activate the scholar’s SEVIS record (only if the DS-2019 was issued by Columbia University). During Your Scholar's Program Contact us if there are any changes Contact us immediately if there are changes in the terms of the visit including: funding title duties and/or location We may need to take immediate action to maintain the scholar’s visa sponsorship. Be aware of the following additional provisions specific to the visa status below: Expand all Collapse all J-1 Scholars If there is concern about the scholar’s health, wellness or performance; refer to our guidance on Reporting a Serious Situation If your scholar will be completing the program more than 30 days in advance of the original end date, as we need to shorten the DS-2019 to reflect this change H-1B Contact us immediately regarding any changes listed below, as these may require us to file an amended H-1B petition a change in academic appointment or a change in job duties a change in the worksite, including an additional worksite or working from home a change in the academic department a reduction in salary or FTE below what has been reported on the H-1B petition any paid or unpaid leave: H-1B employees must be paid the salary stated in the LCA & I-129 petition during their entire period of employment. However, should an H-1B employee wish to take a leave of any kind (e.g. research, maternity, FMLA), the scholar and hiring department must first contact the ISSO before the leave is approved. This must be thoroughly documented in advance per U.S. Department of Labor regulations. termination: If employment is terminated prior to the expiration of the I-797 Approval Notice, the employer must offer to pay the return transportation to the worker’s last place of residence outside the U.S. This does not include the cost of return transportation for family members or personal property. Refer to our H-1B termination form. Initiate extension requests at the correct time J-1: Initiate extension requests prior to the DS-2019 end date All other scholars: at least three months in advance of their I-94 expiration date Find instructions on how to initiate an extension via the appropriate webpage linked on our services page. Related Information J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Student Intern J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment Sponsoring or Extending an H-1B Sponsoring or Extending an O-1 Sponsoring or Extending an E-3 Sponsoring or Extending a TN Sponsoring Permanent Residency Site Visit Guidance H-1B Termination Form Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close