Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Sponsoring or Extending: Sponsoring or Extending an O-1 Sponsoring or Extending an O-1 The approval of an O-1 petition requires a substantial amount of evidence. O-1 sponsorship is generally not considered unless other options such as J-1 or H-1B are not possible or the scholar already holds O-1 status and requires concurrent O-1 sponsorship. O-1 employment is is job-specific and employer-specific. The petition is adjudicated by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). On this page Eligibility Before You Sponsor / Petition Overview How to Sponsor / Extend Before You Extend How to Extend Eligibility O-1 status is reserved for those who are among the small percentage of experts who have risen to the top of their field, and therefore it is generally not appropriate for post-doctoral scholars and scientists, or other training programs. The O-1 petition needs to demonstrate extraordinary ability by documenting at least three of the following: ✓ Evidence of authorship of scholarly books or articles --including first authorship-- in professional journals, peer-reviewed research publications, or major media with international circulation in the academic field. ✓ Evidence of major prizes or awards which are nationally or internationally recognized and given for excellence in the field. This has very high standards (e.g. Nobel Prize, Pulitzer Prize, etc.) Prizes and awards earned as a student generally do not qualify. ✓ Evidence of memberships in associations in the field that require outstanding achievements of their members. (e.g. National Academy of Science). ✓ Evidence of published material written by others in professional or major trade publications and newspapers/media about the scholars’ work in the field. This can also include citations in book chapters and commentary on the scholar’s work in high-impact premier written media. ✓ Evidence of participation as the judge of the work of others either individually or on a panel, in the same, or an allied, academic field. This includes peer review for academic journals. ✓ Evidence of original scientific or scholarly research contributions of major significance in the academic field. This can include items such as letters of recommendation by those prominent in the field, invited talks at major national or international conferences, and approved patents. ✓ Evidence of employment in a critical capacity for organizations and institutions that have a distinguished reputation in the field. Expand all Collapse all Before You Sponsor / Petition Overview The O-1 is for employment of scholars who... ✓ demonstrate extraordinary ability and have risen to the top of their field within one of the five broad fields of the sciences, arts, education, business or athletics ✓ demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim in their field ✓ will be employed at Columbia University in their area of extraordinary ability Duration of O-1 Sponsorship There is no limit to the time an individual can be in O-1 status. The first petition can be up to three years; thereafter, the extension, with updated documentation, is for one year at a time. Petition Timeline Due to the long process of collecting evidence, it is recommended that you begin the new O-1 application or extension more than six months in advance of the intended start date. It can take USCIS four months or more to adjudicate a petition. You may expedite the final step of the petition processing to a turn-around of 15 calendar days from the date USCIS receives it for an additional optional Premium Processing fee. Petition Fees Amount $460 Description Basic USCIS fee for the I-129 petition Amount $2,500 Description Premium Processing fee Recommended to expedite the USCIS adjudication to 15 calendar days as opposed to four months or more. Amount $370 Description Form I-539 fee for dependent Required only if spouse/children are in the U.S. and need to change or extend O-3 dependent status. This fee may be paid by the scholar with a personal check. How to Sponsor / Extend Expand all Collapse all Initiate your application process Morningside/Manhattanville Departments Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) to initiate an online application for O-1 sponsorship This must be initiated by the department, not the scholar. Contact us if you are a department administrator requesting access to the SSP. CUIMC Departments Contact Liz Basile who is responsible for O-1 petitions for all Columbia campuses. Gather your documents and checks You need to compile the following documents and checks for the USCIS fees for the petition and collect the required documentation from your prospective O-1 scholar. Expand all Collapse all Documents for All Applicants Offer letter Attach letter of offer of employment. Certification Regarding the Release of Controlled Technology or Technical Data to Foreign Persons in the U.S. Print on department letterhead the Certification Regarding the Release of Controlled Technology or Technical Data to Foreign Persons in the U.S., and complete and sign. Letter from the sponsor This letter must be signed in ink, quite detailed, and include certain items. You may use the sample letter as a guide. Affirmative action approval must be granted before an O-1 application is submitted. Check(s) payable to US Department of Homeland Security When preparing a Check Request to submit to Accounts Payable, use the ARC supplier "US Dept. of Homeland Security, USCIS Service Center, 38 River Road, Essex Junction, VT 05479-0001." Request check(s) payable to U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Do not use enclosure text--use only "hold for pickup" when requesting these checks. The processing fees are: $460: I-129 petition $370: I-539 change of status/extension of stay application for dependents $2,500 Premium Processing fee, effective October 19, 2020. Optional fee to expedite the USCIS adjudication process to 15 calendar days rather than the usual 3-4 months (or more) processing time. All fees must be on separate checks. Collect the required documentation from your prospective O-1 scholar. O-1 Applicants in Academic Teaching and Research O-1 Applicants in the Performing Arts Expand all Collapse all Additional Documents for Teaching and Research Applicants 1 Complete the Data Sheet for O-1 Applicants Data Sheet for O-1 Applicant 2 Your CV Provide your C.V., including a list of publications. 3 Evidence of the highest degree earned (diploma and transcript) Provide a copy of a diploma and transcript in the original language. If the original language is not English, provide a copy of copy of certified translations of diplomas and transcripts. If the degree does not appear to be equivalent to a comparable U.S. degree, it must be evaluated by an outside agency to determine U.S. equivalency. Two firms that provide this service are Trustforte Corp or Morningside Evaluations. They can also translate your documents. 4 At least five letters from experts in the field with their CVs Letters from prominent individuals who can confirm applicant’s original scientific or scholarly contributions of major significance to the field. Provide at least 5 letters from your “peer group” attesting to your outstanding qualifications. All letters must be accompanied with the CV for each expert as evidence of their statue in the field of expertise. The case is strengthened by letters from outside the Columbia community and outside the United States. See sample letter and guidelines for peer letters. 5 Proof of having received an internationally recognized award or proof of at least three of the following: a. Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. Provide photocopies of 1-3 award certificates or copies of letters with the award notification. b. Membership in associations in the field which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized experts in the field. Provide copies of 1-3 appointing letters. c. Evidence of authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional journals, or other major media. Provide copies of 8-10 most-cited articles. d. Published material in professional or major trade publications or major media about applicant’s work. Provide copies of 1-3 publications. e. Evidence of participation on a panel, or as a judge of the work of others in the field. Provide photocopies of 1-3 letters of appointment to editorial boards or letters of invitation to review the work of others. f. Evidence of employment in a critical or essential capacity for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished reputation. Provide a statement from the former/current employer on letterhead stating in as much detail as possible that the individual's role was critical or essential. 6 Your passport ID page Provide a copy of your passport ID page with a validity date at least six months into the future. 7 If currently in the U.S., a copy of your I-94 record If you are currently in the U.S., attach a copy of your electronic I-94 arrival record 8 Copies of previous DS-2019 forms, if applicable If you previously spent time in the U.S. in J-1 status, provide copies of any DS-2019 forms you were issued. 9 For applicants with dependents, I-539 and I-539A forms If you have dependent(s) currently in the United States who is applying for a change of status or extension with you, they must complete and sign USCIS form I-539. Refer to I-539 instructions here. In addition, each dependent requires an I-539A form, regardless of age. Refer to I-539A instructions here. The filing fee for form I-539 is $370. Include 1 copy of each dependent's I-94 arrival record, visa stamp and passport pages. Include 1 copy of either a marriage certificate (spouse) or birth certificate (child) Expand all Collapse all Additional Documents for Applicants in the Arts 1 Complete the Data Sheet for O-1 Applicants Data Sheet for O-1 Applicant 2 Your C.V. Provide a copy of your C.V., including a list of publications 3 Written consultation (advisory opinion) from a labor union, peer group or management organization regarding the nature of the work to be done and the applicant's qualifications The consultation must be from an organization with expertise in the specific field involved, must state that the position requires a person of extraordinary ability and must give facts as to why this is so. Refer to the list of organizations that will write peer evaluations for information on those who can attest to the applicant's outstanding qualifications. This is necessary for performers. If no union/association exists: Provide at least five letters of support from senior people (peers) in the field of specialization outside of Columbia attesting to the scholar's “demonstrated extraordinary ability” and highlighting significant contributions to the field. 4 Evidence of having received a major internationally recognized award or at least three of the following examples: a. Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. Provide photocopies of 1-3 award certificates or copies of letters with the award notification. b. Achieved national or international recognition for achievements. Provide copies of 1-3 appointing letters. c. Evidence of performance as a lead, starring or critical role for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished reputation. Provide copies of 1-3 copies of playbills, reviews, programs or any other written proof. d. Evidence of having received significant recognition for achievements from organizations, critics, government agencies, or other recognized experts in the field in which the alien is engaged. Provide copies of reviews, awards, articles written in periodicals, interviews, or any other written proof of recognition. e. Evidence of commanding a high salary or other substantial remuneration for services in relation to others in the field. This category does not usually apply to those performing at universities. 5 Your passport ID page A copy of your passport ID page with a validity date at least six months into the future. 6 If currently in the U.S., a copy of your I-94 record If you are currently in the U.S., attach a copy of your electronic I-94 arrival record 7 Copies of previous DS-2019 forms, if applicable If you previously spent time in the U.S. in J-1 status, provide copies of any DS-2019 forms you were issued. 8 For applicants with dependent(s), I-539 and I-539A forms If you have dependent(s) currently in the United States who is applying for a change of status or extension with you, they must complete and sign USCIS form I-539. Refer to I-539 instructions here. In addition, each dependent requires an I-539A form, regardless of age. Refer to I-539A instructions here. The filing fee for form I-539 is $370. Include 1 copy of each dependent's I-94 arrival record, visa stamp and passport pages. Include 1 copy of either a marriage certificate (spouse) or birth certificate (child) While we are working remotely, please coordinate delivery of the complete application with Liz Basile. Liz is responsible for O-1 petitions for all Columbia campuses. We will contact you Allow up to 10 business days for us to review and process your application. We will notify you if additional information or documentation is required. Extending an O-1 Expand all Collapse all Before You Extend Duration of Extensions The initial O-1 petition can be filed for a 3-year period. Thereafter, extensions are limited to one year at a time. There is no limit to the number of extensions that may be filed. Extensions Require the Same Types of Documentation as the Initial The petition to extend O-1 status requires the same documentation as the original petition, but updated (e.g. updated CV, additional publications, awards, etc.). Application Timeline Due to the long process of collecting evidence, begin the extension process at least six months in advance of the intended new start date. It can take USCIS four months or more to adjudicate a petition. Expedite Through Premium Processing Premium Processing guarantees a USCIS action on the case within 15 business days from the date they receive it. Using Premium Processing for an additional fee is optional, but recommended. How to Extend Follow the same steps above because an extension requires the same documentation as the original petition. CUIMC departments should contact Liz Basile, responsible for O-1 petitions for all Columbia campuses. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close