Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Students On-Campus Work (F and J Students) On-Campus Work (F and J Students) On this page Overview for both F and J students J-1 students only: Mandatory Authorization After you find an on-campus job Overview On-campus employment is permitted "incident to your status" as an F or J student. This means you are eligible as soon as you have obtained F or J status and does not require an application. On-campus work is done for, and paid by, Columbia University, with an exception for work for a commercial firm on the campus if it provides direct services to all Columbia students. Expand all Collapse all Information for both F and J students Limitation on number of hours you may work You may work on-campus up to 20 hours per week during the academic year (fall and spring semester) when classes are in session, and unlimited hours during any recess periods, such as winter break or summer vacation. If your program requires you to be enrolled during the summer term, it is not considered a vacation period and you would be restricted to part-time hours. On-Campus employment is not deducted from other types of work The time you spend working on-campus is not deducted from the amount of time you are allowed for other types of work, such as F-1 Optional Practical Training or J-1 Academic Training, and does not need to be related to your field of study. You are not eligible for jobs classified as “Work-Study” This is because Work-Study jobs are subsidized by federal financial aid for domestic students. Where to look for on-campus jobs There is no one central place where all on-campus jobs are listed. Some places to look are: Lionshare for students served by Center for Career Education (CCE) CCE how to get a job on-campus Other Career Centers Bulletin boards in campus buildings Libraries (employment office in 519 Butler) Expand all Collapse all For J-1 Students only Mandatory request for ISSO authorization J-1 exchange visitor regulations require sponsor authorization of on-campus employment. If your Form DS-2019 was issued by Columbia University, make this request to the ISSO /ISSO-CUIMC by clicking on the appropriate link below. ISSO Morningside J-1 Students ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) J-1 Students Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Want to see more? Watch from 00:00 - 1:49 to get a quick overview of on-campus work! Watch 00:00 - 1:49 for a short overview on On-Campus employment. After You Find an On-Campus Job Apply for a Social Security Number (if you don't have one) You must apply in person to the Social Security Administration, a federal agency, for a Social Security Number (SSN). Learn exactly what you need to do for an SSN application. Follow instructions for getting on payroll Visit the New Student Employees page on the Human Resources website. The office that hires you will give you instructions for completing an I-9 Employment Verification Authorization Form, tax withholding forms (federal IRS W-4 and NY state/city IT-2104), and possibly IRS Form 8233 if you are from a country eligible for a tax treaty benefit. W-4 special instructions for "nonresident aliens" Tax Treaty exemption eligibility questions? While the relevant Human Resources office is working remotely due to of COVID-19, please call the HR Service Center at 212-851-2888 or submit this ServiceNow Form. W-2: By January 31st of the following tax year, you will be sent a W-2 form, also known as the Wage and Tax Statement, . The W-2 reports your annual wages and the amount of taxes withheld from your paycheck. At Columbia, Payroll in the Finance Division is responsible for the W-2. Access an electronic copy of your W-2 here. Related Information Social Security Number Application U.S. Tax Treaties (IRS Publication 901) Columbia Payroll Information on W-2 and 1042-S 1042-S Inquiries F-1 Curricular Practical Training (CPT) J-1 Academic Training (AT) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close