Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home News Archive Tax Filing Information Tax Filing Information March 29, 2022 IRS Requires Form 8843 Even if You Had No Income IRS Requires Form 8843 from all Fs and Js (including their F-2 and J-2 dependent spouses and children) who are nonresident aliens for federal tax purposes and were physically in the U.S. at any time in 2021, even if you had no U.S. income in 2021. April 18, 2022 is the deadline for a tax return if you had US income. June 15, 2022 is the deadline if the 8843 is the only form you need to mail to the IRS because you had no income. Log in to Sprintax nonresident tax software from our website to complete the forms you need. What to Do Review U.S. Income Tax Basics for Fs and Js. The overview includes information on nonresident and resident alien tax status, 8843, W-2 and 1042-S forms, what is taxable income, and NY State and NYC taxes. Go to our Filing Your Nonresident Forms with Sprintax webpage and log in with your UNI and password to complete your required tax forms. Sprintax is an easy-to-use nonresident tax preparation software designed for international students, scholars, alumni and their dependents in the U.S. Use The first thing it does is determine whether you are a nonresident or resident for federal tax purposes. Sprintax is free for all your federal nonresident tax forms when you log in from our web page. There is an individual fee for a state tax return. If Sprintax determines that you were a resident for federal tax purposes in 2021, refer to our page on Resources for Filing a Resident Tax Return. Sprintax Tax Webinars April 1, 2022 at 12 pm is the 4th and final Sprintax webinar for Columbia. Watch the recording here. General Sprintax Student/Scholar Workshops *These workshops will refer to a code you need to get from your school, but Columbia doesn't use codes. You get the discount when you log in from our website with your UNI and password. Thursday, Apr 14, 2022 @ 9:00 AM EDT – Register Here Thursday, April 14th @ 12pm EST – Register here News March 29, 2022 Tax Filing Information February 25, 2022 President Bollinger's Statement on the Invasion of Ukraine January 27, 2022 Travelers to the U.S. Require Proof of Vaccination December 28, 2021 Waiver of Visa Interviews Through December 31, 2022 December 28, 2021 Biden Revokes Travel Restrictions from 8 Countries in Southern Africa Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close