Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Students Social Security Number Application Social Security Number Application Social Security Update Social Security offices are now open for in-person service for those with and without appointments. They recommend that you go on Wednesdays or Thursdays to avoid longer lines on other days. Important health safety measures in place. Everyone must complete a self-assessment checklist before allowed entry. Everyone must wear a mask, regardless of vaccination status. Learn what else to know before you go to an office. It is still possible to phone the Social Security Card Center to schedule an in-person appointment if you prefer to visit at a designated time. If you live in Manhattan the number of the Card Center is 866-657-3406 from 9 am- 4pm. We have been told Wednesday to Friday afternoons have lower call volumes than mornings and other days of the week. If you live elsewhere, enter your zip code here to find your local Card Center and phone number. Follow the instructions below to prepare the documents you need before you go. On this page Overview Eligibility When and How to Apply Replacing a Lost Social Security Card Useful links Overview A Social Security Number (SSN) is used primarily by employers and employees for tax-reporting purposes only. The employer needs to withhold taxes on your earnings using your unique number, and you need your social security number when you file a tax return. A Social Security Number (SSN): ✓ must be applied for in person from the Social Security Administration, a federal agency. A Columbia University issued number is not an SSN, and is for internal use only. ✓ is not a work permit. An SSN is used only for tax-reporting purposes. ✓ is not required to open a bank account, rent an apartment, start a mobile phone contract, or get a credit card. ✓ is yours for life. You don't need to apply for another one if you already have an SSN from a previous stay in the United States. Eligibility In general, international students and scholars need to have authorized employment to apply for a Social Security Number (SSN), with the following exceptions: J-1 students, research and short-term scholars are eligible to apply for an SSN without employment F-1 doctoral fellowship stipend recipients who do not work the first year but will later have teaching and research responsibilities. Fellowship student who are already in a teaching position should follow the instructions for on-campus employment. When and How to Apply Gather your documents Check the list below for the documents you need to gather to apply for a Social Security Number (SSN). Expand all Collapse all F-1 Students F-1 On-Campus Employment When You may apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) as early as 30 days in advance of your employment start date. *If you are a new student, you will not be able to submit this request until after you have reported your arrival with the ISSO. Please allow 1 to 2 business days for your record to be updated before proceeding with the steps below. How There are 6 items that comprise your SSN application that you take to the Social Security Card Center when you have secured an appointment. Step 1. Obtain the On-Campus Employer Letter completed by your supervisor Share the On-Campus Employer Letter link with your supervisor who will complete and sign the fillable form. The form must be: printed on the hiring department's official letterhead signed in blue ink with the supervisor's original signature The supervisor signature must be less than 30 days old on the day you have an appointment to go to the Social Security Card Center to apply for an SSN Step 2. Apply for the ISSO Social Security Letter In addition to the On-Campus Employer letter, you will need a copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record and your UEMS order number to apply for the ISSO Social Security letter through Compass. While we continue to work remotely, we will need to ship the letter to you. Follow these directions for free UEMS shipping and save your order number which you will need for your application. Log in to Compass with your UNI and password to request your ISSO Social Security Letter. Click on the link for your campus. ISSO Morningside: F-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC: F-1 Students After you submit the form, ISSO will email you when your ISSO Social Security letter has been processed and ready for shipping. Your ISSO letter must be dated within the 30 days before your appointment. Step 3. Take original documents 1-6 to the Social Security Card Center . 1. On-Campus Employer Letter (dated within 30 days before your Social Security appointment) 2. ISSO Social Security Letter (dated within 30 days before your Social Security appointment) 3. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record 4. Unexpired passport. Valid until at least 6 months into the future. 5. Most Recent I-20. Program end date on I-20 has to be at least 14 days into the future on the date of your SSN application. SSA has confirmed that a digital I-20 printed then signed in ink by you will be accepted during the COVID-19 emergency in accordance with SEVP guidance on COVID-19 modifications. If the SSA agent says it cannot be accepted, ask to speak with a supervisor. 6. SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. F-1 Doctoral Fellowship When You may apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) as early as 30 days in advance of your I-20 program start date. *If you are a new student, you will not be able to submit this request until after you have reported your arrival with the ISSO. Please allow 1 to 2 business days for your record to be updated before proceeding with the steps below. How These instructions are for recipients of doctoral fellowship stipends. If you are already in a teaching position, please follow the instructions for on campus employment. There are 6 items to take to the Social Security Card Center when you apply for an SSN. Please follow these instructions: Step A. Find a copy of your official fellowship award letter that referred to future teaching/research responsibilities OR obtain a letter from your department's Graduate Coordinator or your academic adviser that confirms the terms of the fellowship regarding future teaching or research responsibilities. Whichever letter you choose must have an original signature. Step B. Apply for your ISSO Social Security Letter You will need a copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record and your UEMS order number in addition to the fellowship letter. While we continue to work remotely, we will need to ship the letter to you. Follow these directions for free UEMS shipping and save your order number that you will need for your application. Log in to Compass with your UNI and password to request your ISSO Social Security Letter. Click on the link for your campus: ISSO Morningside: F-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC: F-1 Students After you submit the form, ISSO will email you when the ISSO Social Security Letter has been processed and is ready for shipping. Step C. When you have documents 1 - 6, go to the Social Security Card Center. 1. Copy of official fellowship award letter that must refer to future teaching/research responsibilities OR Letter from your department's Graduate Coordinator or your academic adviser that confirms the terms of the fellowship regarding future teaching or research responsibilities. Whichever letter you choose, it must have an original signature. 2. ISSO Social Security letter 3. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record. 4. Unexpired passport. Valid until at least 6 months into the future. 5. Most recent I-20. Program end date on I-20 has to be at least 14 days into the future on the date of your SSN application. SSA has confirmed that a digital I-20 printed then signed in ink by you will be accepted during the COVID-19 emergency in accordance with SEVP guidance on COVID-19 modifications. If the SSA agent says it cannot be accepted, ask to speak with a supervisor. 6. SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. F-1 Curricular Practical Training (CPT) When You may apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) as early as 30 days in advance of your CPT employment start date printed on page 2 of your I-20. How Take the original 4 items that comprise your SSN application to the Social Security Card Center: 1. Most recent I-20 with CPT authorization printed on page 2. SSA has confirmed that a digital I-20 printed (recommended in color) and signed in ink by you will be accepted during the COVID-19 emergency in accordance with SEVP guidance on COVID-19 modifications. If the SSA agent says it cannot be accepted, ask to speak with a supervisor. 2. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record 3. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 4. SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT) If you applied for a Social Security Number (SSN) through the I-765 OPT application, you do not need to follow these instructions to apply in person. Generally you will receive the SSN in the mail a few weeks after you receive the EAD. When If you do need to apply for an SSN in person, you may apply on or after the OPT start date on your EAD card. How Take the 5 original documents that comprise your SSN application to the Social Security Card Center: 1. EAD card authorizing OPT 2. Most recent I-20. SSA has confirmed that a digital I-20 printed (recommended in color) and signed in ink by you will be accepted during the COVID-19 emergency in accordance with SEVP guidance on COVID-19 modifications. If the SSA agent says it cannot be accepted, ask to speak with a supervisor. 3. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record 4. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 5. SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. Expand all Collapse all J-1 Students, Scholars, and Dependents J-1 Students Currently Enrolled All students in J-1 status are eligible to apply for a Social Security Number without being employed, including students with a doctoral fellowship. When You may apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) as early as 30 days in advance of your DS-2019 program start date. *If you are a new student, you will not be able to submit this request until after you have reported your arrival with the ISSO. Please allow 1 to 2 business days for your record to be updated before proceeding with the steps below. How There are 5 items that comprise your SSN application that you take to the Social Security Card Center. Please follow these instructions. Step A. Apply for an ISSO Social Security Letter You will need a copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record and your UEMS order number. While we continue to work remotely, we will need to ship the letter to you. Follow these directions for free UEMS shipping and save your order number that you will need for your application. Log in to Compass with your UNI and password to request your ISSO Social Security Letter. Click on the link for your campus: ISSO Morningside: J-1 Students ISSO - CUIMC: J-1 Students After you submit the request, ISSO will email you when your ISSO Social Security Letter has been processed and is ready for shipping. Step B. Take these original 5 documents that comprise your SSN application to the Social Security Card Center. 1. ISSO Social Security letter 2. Unexpired DS-2019 3. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record 4. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 5. SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. J-1 Student Academic Training (AT) When You may apply for an SSN as early as 30 days in advance of your Academic Training employment start date. How There are 5 items that comprise your SSN application that you take to the Social Security Card Center: 1. Academic Training letter from the ISSO that you received with your Academic Training DS-2019 2. Unexpired Form DS-2019 which was issued for your Academic Training 3. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record 4. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 5. SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. J-1 Student Intern When You may apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) as early as 30 days in advance of your DS-2019 program start date. If you are newly-arrived, wait two business days after you have reported your arrival online to ensure that your SEVIS record can be verified as "active". How There are 5 items that comprise your SSN application that you will take to the Social Security Card Center. Please follow these instructions. Step A. Email a request for an ISSO Social Security letter for a J-1 Student Intern to the ISSO Scholar Services of your campus. Attach a copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record and use "Social Security Letter" in the subject line. Morningside/Manhattanville ISSO-CUIMC (medical campus) ISSO will email you when your ISSO Social Security letter has been processed and is ready for shipping. Step B. When you have documents 1 - 5, take your application to the Social Security Card Center. 1. ISSO Social Security letter for J-1 Interns 2. Unexpired Form DS-2019. Student intern is the category under item 4 3. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record 4. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 5. SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. J-1 Scholar (Professor/Researcher) When You may apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) as early as 30 days in advance of your DS-2019 program start date. If you are newly-arrived, wait two business days after you have reported your arrival online to ensure that your SEVIS record can be verified as "active". How There are 4 items that comprise your SSN application that you take to the Social Security Card Center. You do not require anything from the ISSO. 1. Unexpired Form DS-2019 2. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record 3. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 4. SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. J-2 Dependents If you applied for a Social Security Number (SSN) through the I-765 application for J-2 work permission, you do not need to follow these instructions to apply in person. Generally you will receive the SSN in the mail a few weeks after you receive the EAD. When If you do need to apply for an SSN in person, you may apply on or after the "valid from" date on your EAD card. How There are 5 items that comprise your SSN application that you take to the Social Security Card Center: 1. EAD 2. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 3. Unexpired DS-2019 4. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record 5. SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. Expand all Collapse all Other Columbia Employees H-1B/O-1 When You may apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) on or after the "valid from" date on your I-797 Approval Notice How There are 4 items that comprise your SSN application that you take to the Social Security Card Center: 1. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 2. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record 3. I-797B Approval Notice 4. SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. TN/E-3 When You may apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) on or after the start date on the TN or E-3 sponsor's letter offering employment How There are 4 items that comprise your SSN application that you take to the Social Security Card Center: 1. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 2. Printout of your most recent I-94 arrival record 3. Letter from Columbia employer 4, SSN Application Form. Complete SSN application form SS-5 on page 5. Use our sample form as a guide. Go to the Manhattan Social Security Card Center and bring your original documents 123 William Street New York, NY 10038 (7:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., Monday to Friday) *Until the Card Center re-opens after being closed due to COVID-19, it is by appointment only, arranged with an SSA representative by phone at 866-657-3406. *Many subway lines including the #2, #3, and A lines go to Fulton Street station. Follow the signs for the William St. exit. Wait 1-2 weeks to receive your SSN in the mail After you receive your SSN, we advise you not to carry the Social Security Card with you, but to memorize the number or make a note of it elsewhere and put the card in a safe place with your other important documents. We all need to be careful to avoid identity theft. Don't lose your card! Replacement is tricky. Replacing a Lost Social Security Card The SSA will replace your card (and will give you the same number) only if you are currently eligible to get one. However, you may continue to use your Social Security number if you know it and your card is not requested. Check the document requirements under the category for your current eligibility. The SSN application has a question asking if you have ever filed for or received an SSN card before. Related Information I-94 Arrival Record F-1 On-Campus Employer Letter SSN application form SS-5 (on page 5) Sample of complete SSN form SS-5 Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close