Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home ISSO-CUIMC, Student and Scholar Services ISSO-CUIMC, Student and Scholar Services Contact Us We're here to help. HOW TO GET ANSWERS TO YOUR QUESTIONS We are working remotely and are fully operational. We respond to emails, process online applications, have phone and zoom appointments and mail documents that would normally be picked up in our office. We are with you virtually! bullhorn icon Office Closing CUIMC Is closed on all University holidays at icon Email Assistance Monday through Friday, 9 AM - 5 PM Please write to us from your Columbia email address. CUIMC F-1 and J-1 Students [email protected] Include your UNI or PID in the subject line. CUIMC J Scholars (Professors/Researchers) [email protected] CUIMC H-1B/E-3/TN Employees [email protected] CUIMC O-1 Employees [email protected] CUIMC PR Inquiries [email protected] phone icon Phones Office Line 212-305-8165 (recorded information) O-1 & PR inquiries Only 212-853-1414 Emergency CUIMC's Public Safety Office: 212-305-8100 (24 hours/day) TRY OUR SEARCH FEATURE Your question might already be answered on our website. Search Now Who We Are Watch the video to learn about our team and click on the team member to get their phone and email. Ximena Corley Ximena is part of the office that provides documentation services for, and advisement to, the international community of students, faculty and scholars on the Columbia University Medical Campus (CUIMC). Email: [email protected] Tomasz R. Tuleja Tomasz works for the American Language Program (ALP) of the School of Professional Studies. He provides visa documentation services and advisement for students enrolled in courses for English as a Second Language. Tomasz coordinates with the Compliance team in the transition of students from ALP to academic programs at Columbia. Stacey E. DiMarino Stacey is part of the office that provides documentation services for, and advisement to, the international community of students, faculty and scholars on the Columbia University Medical Campus (CUIMC). Simone Long As a member of the Student Advising Team, Simone is part of the busy Riverside Drive office that assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Seong Hwan Jeon As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Seong Hwan is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Samantha Lu Samantha oversees the Student Advising team at the Riverside Drive location for the Morningside campus. She also serves as the main point of contact for academic departments. The advising team assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including but not limited to, visas, employment, enrollment, travel, and tax-filing obligations. The team provides information sessions at orientation programs and offers employment-related workshops throughout the academic year. Rosaceli Malek As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Rosaceli is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Regina Degnan As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Regina is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists the very large number of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to employment, visas, enrollment and travel. Noelle Willecke As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Noelle is part of the Riverside Drive office that serves the large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Nadia Rizvi As a member of the Compliance Team Nadia assists Associate Director Maria Reynoso in processing visa documents and database management. She works with colleagues on the Student Advising Team in other matters related to student compliance issues. Mimian Morales Mimian Morales is Executive Assistant to the Associate Provost and Director of the ISSO. In this capacity Mimian provides strategic communications, operational, and executive support to the ISSO Director and his team, and views herself as a “professional problem solver.” Mimian has an M.S. in Strategic Communication from Columbia University (SPS ’13) and a B.A. in Theatre from the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Michelle Desikan As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Michelle is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists the very large number of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to employment, visas, enrollment and travel. Michael D. Goslin As Associate Director of Information Technology, Michael is responsible for all the multiple, challenging and complex information technology needs of our three locations. Mazaher Tejani As a member of the Compliance Team, Mazaher assists Associate Director Maria Reynoso in processing student visa documents and database management. He works with colleagues on the Student Advising Team in other matters related to student compliance issues. Maria Y. Reynoso Maria directs the Compliance Team at the Nash Building location. They are responsible for the issuance of student visa documents, totaling more than 5000 just for incoming students for summer and fall term. Working with the advising team, the compliance team helps students to maintain their status by following the regulations that govern their stay. They are also responsible for university compliance with federal regulations. Marcia Stark Marcia’s responsibilities are too numerous and varied to list and describe. She manages all administrative aspects of the Riverside Drive and Nash Building locations. Marc Mejia As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Marc is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Lana Alkhatib Lana is the Assistant Director for Information Technology. She's part of a team of two kept busy serving all the technology needs of our three locations. Kathleen Mcveigh Kathy directs the office that provides documentation services for, and advisement to, the international community of students, faculty and scholars on the Columbia University Medical Campus (CUIMC). Jordan Munro-Rankin As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Jordan is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Jordan Febbraro As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Jordan is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Jennifer Soler Jennifer is part of the Student Advising team. She serves as the main point of contact for academic departments on the Morningside campus. The advising team assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including but not limited to, visas, employment, enrollment, travel, and tax-filing obligations. The team provides information sessions at orientation programs and offers employment-related workshops throughout the academic year. Jennifer C. Douglas As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Jennifer is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists the very large number of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to employment, visas, enrollment and travel. Jasmine Sarryeh-Jemeršić As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Jasmine is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Jane Acton Jane is the Associate Director for Faculty and Scholar Services. She leads the Scholar Advising Team, located in the Nash Building, that serves the Morningside and Manhattanville campus schools. They work with academic departments in bringing international faculty and researchers to the university and overseeing their stay. The scholar team is responsible for the university's compliance with the J-1 Exchange Visitor program for researchers, professors and student interns, and files nonimmigrant petitions with USCIS (Citizenship and Immigration and Services) for other visa types used by our academic community. They provide orientation programs for J-1 scholars and workshops and one-on-one training for department staff members with whom they work. Email: [email protected] Phone: +1 212 854 6356 Hadija Wilson Hadija is part of the office that provides documentation services for, and advisement to, the international community of students, faculty and scholars on the Columbia University Medical Campus (CUIMC). Gwyneth A. Smith Gwyneth is part of the office that provides documentation services for, and advisement to, the international community of students, faculty and scholars on the Columbia University Medical Campus (CUIMC). Gabriel Saravalli-Burchfield Gabriel is part of the Scholar Advising Team in the Nash Building providing services to Columbia’s Morningside and Manhattanville scholar communities. They work with academic departments in bringing international faculty and researchers to the university, provide orientation programs for J-1 scholars and workshops and one-on-one training for department staff members with whom they work. Email: [email protected] Phone: +1 212-853-1749 Ellen Cohen Ellen is currently the Associate Director for Communications. She has worked at the International Students and Scholars Office in a variety of roles over many years. She works closely with Assistant Director Ben Canning-Pereira, in keeping the international community who come to Columbia to study, teach and conduct research — and the university members who admit, appoint, employ, teach and work with them — informed through a variety of media. They update and maintain the ISSO website, which they launched in July, 2016. Ellahdia Ang As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Ella is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Elizabeth K Basile Liz is responsible for the development, coordination, processing and delivery of advising and related support services for University-sponsored O-1 petitions and permanent residence for the Morningside, Manhattanville and CUIMC campuses. She serves as an expert resource for faculty, researchers, scholars and staff on a wide range of employment-based issues including how nonimmigrant visa status factors into the permanent residence process. Email: [email protected] Phone: +1 212 853 -1414 Dawn Hoffman As a member of the Compliance Team, Dawn assists Associate Director Maria Reynoso in processing visa documents and database management. She works with colleagues on the Student Advising Team in other matters related to student compliance issues. David Austell David B. Austell, Ph.D. is Associate Provost and Director of the International Students and Scholars Office at Columbia University in New York City where he is also an Associate Professor of International Education in Teachers College-Columbia University (adjunct). David has over thirty years of executive leadership experience in International Education, and is a frequent writer and presenter in his professional field. David has undergraduate and graduate degrees in English Literature from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he also completed his Ph.D. in Higher Education, focusing on International Education; his doctoral dissertation, The Birds in the Rich Forest, concerned Chinese students in the United States during the Student Democracy Movement. David was a Fulbright Fellow in Japan and Korea in 1992. He is also a poet, and his third book of poetry, The Tin Man regarding the life of St. Joseph of Arimathea, was published by Nirala Press in April 2018. Colleen Weiss Colleen is part of the Scholar Advising Team in the Nash Building providing services to Columbia’s Morningside and Manhattanville scholar communities. They work with academic departments in bringing international faculty and researchers to the university, provide orientation programs for J-1 scholars and workshops and one-on-one training for department staff members with whom they work. Email: [email protected] Phone: +1 212 853 1415 Claire Rehbock As a member of the Compliance Team, Claire assists Associate Director Maria Reynoso in processing visa documents and database management. She works with colleagues on the Student Advising Team in other matters related to student compliance issues. Carolina Acosta-Gutierrez As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Carolina is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Ben Canning-Pereira Ben Canning-Pereira’s primary role is to assist Ellen Cohen in maintaining all communications-related materials for the ISSO. His responsibilities include maintaining this website, as well as managing email marketing, user testing, and online communications. His job is to put the “user” first — this means the international community who come to Columbia to study, teach and conduct research — and the university members who admit, appoint, employ, teach and work with them! Amanda Ortiz As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Amanda is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists our large population of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to visas, enrollment, employment, and travel. Alexis M. Akagawa As a member of the Morningside Student Advising Team, Alexis is part of the Riverside Drive office that assists the very large number of international students in matters relating to their immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including, but not limited to employment, visas, enrollment and travel. Sort Department Group Function Expertise Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close