Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Getting Started For Students Reporting Your Arrival (F and J Students) Reporting Your Arrival (F and J Students) Welcome to Columbia University! We're happy you arrived. If you're an F or J student, you need to report your arrival to us by submitting the online SEVIS Report form within a week of your arrival. It is very important! This action will activate your SEVIS record. Expand all Collapse all Before You Apply Who Needs to Submit the SEVIS Report Form You need to submit this form if you are: ✓ a new student with a Columbia I-20/DS-2019 who arrived in the U.S. in F-1/J-1 status ✓ a new student with a Columbia I-20 who transferred your SEVIS record from another American school ✓ returning from a leave of absence with a new I-20/DS-2019 ✓ re-entering the U.S. with a new Columbia I-20/DS-2019 to regain status When to Complete the Form Complete the following steps within your first week after arriving at Columbia for the first time with this Columbia I-20/DS-2019. How to Report Gather your documents and information Not an F-1/J-1 student? J-1 scholars (researchers/faculty) should go to this webpage for information. 1. Document Your passport 2. Document Your Form I-20 or Form DS-2019, if issued by Columbia. 3. Document Your electronic I-94 Arrival Record that was created when you entered the U.S. Having a problem locating your I-94 Record through the I-94 website? Learn how to retrieve it. Are you coming with dependents? Their F-2/J-2 SEVIS record(s) are automatically activated with yours. Check to see that their I-94 Arrival Record is accurate. They should be admitted with the notation of "F-2 until D/S" or “J-2 until D/S". D/S refers to "duration of status". 4. Document Your local address (including your zip code), even if it is temporary. Remember to update your address in Student Services OnLine (SSOL) as well. Log in to Compass with your UNI and password to report your arrival Please click the link below that matches your Columbia campus. ISSO Morningside Campus Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Morningside F-1 Students F-1 Students Morningside J-1 Students J-1 Students ISSO - CU Medical Center Campus (CUIMC) Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. CUIMC F-1 Students F-1 Students CUIMC J-1 Students J-1 Students Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Related Information Guidelines to Maintaining Legal Status Your First Week Resources for New Students I-94 Arrival Record Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close