Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors Sponsoring and Extending a J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment Sponsoring and Extending a J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment To bring a J-1 Scholar, you will need to apply to our office for a Form DS-2019 (J-1 Certificate of Eligibility) which will be used by the scholar to obtain J-1 status. On this page: Before You Sponsor How to Sponsor Before You Extend How to Extend Department User Guides CUIMC: Compass User Guide Morningside/Manhattanville: Overview of SSP (Scholar Sponsorship Portal) and SSP User Guide Expand all Collapse all Before You Sponsor Positions that Qualify for a J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment The J-1 Exchange Visitor visa is used most frequently for research appointments (including post-doctoral research positions) and instructional appointments that are not tenure-track. Application Timeline Submit application 3 months before the start date. This allows time for the scholar to obtain or renew a passport if needed and apply for a visa at a U.S. consulate. How to Sponsor Gather the documents Expand all Collapse all Morningside Departments 1. Cover Sheet 2. Acceptable evidence to prove English language proficiency 3. Appointment letter on department letterhead. Must include appointment start date, Columbia title of appointment, and salary. 4. CV 5. J-1 passport biographical data page 6. J-2 passport biographical data page(s) for accompanying family member(s) 7. Copy of any previous Form(s) DS-2019 from previous J-1 programs, if applicable 8. Funding documentation. If Columbia University will not be financially supporting your scholar, the scholar must document the ability to cover living expenses, as follows: J-1 Scholar - $2,800 per month; J-2 Spouse - $1,000 per month; Each J-2 child - $500 per month. (Refer to the Funding Documents Checklist for acceptable documents) CUIMC Departments 1. Appointment letter on department letterhead. Must include appointment start date, Columbia title of appointment, and salary. 2. CV 3. J-1 passport biographical data page 4. J-2 passport biographical data page(s) for accompanying family member(s) 5. Funding documentation: If Columbia University will not be financially supporting your scholar, the scholar must document the ability to cover living expenses. J-1 Scholar - $2,800 per month; J-2 Spouse - $1,000 per month; Each J-2 child - $500 per month. (Refer to the Funding Documents Checklist for acceptable documents) 6. Copy of any previous Form(s) DS-2019 from previous J-1 programs, if applicable Expand all Collapse all Submit your application Morningside Departments Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to submit all three parts of your application This application consists of 3 parts. All 3 parts must be completed before we receive your application. Contact us if you are a department administrator requesting access to the SSP. Part 1 Completed by the department (contact us if your UNI and password isn't working) Part 2 Completed by the scholar (per the scholar’s email address entered in Part 1) Part 3 Completed by the department (the department user will get an email when the scholar completes Part 2) Need more help? For a description of the process, visit our SSP Overview page. Visit our SSP Department Guide for technical assistance. CUIMC Departments This application consists of three (3) parts. All 3 parts must be completed in order to submit your application. If you do not already have access to Compass, please complete the Departmental Access Request Form here. Otherwise, proceed to the CUIMC Department Compass User Guide for detailed instructions. Part 1 Three (3) forms are completed by the scholar: Exchange Visitor Information, Health Insurance Attestation, Dependent Spouse & Children Part 2 Three (3) forms are completed by the department: Exchange Visitor Program Details, Site of Activity, English Language Proficiency Verification Part 3 Two (2) forms for review and certification by the Faculty Sponsor and the Departmental Administrator/HR Director. These forms must be initiated by the department. We will contact you Allow up to 10 business days for us to review and process your application. We will notify you by email when the Form DS-2019 is ready. Extending a J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment Expand all Collapse all Allowable duration of extensions Appointment J-1 Research Scholar Appointment Maximum Extension Duration 5 consecutive years Appointment J-1 Short-Term Appointment Maximum Extension Duration 6 months How to Extend Gather the documents Expand all Collapse all Morningside Departments 1. Cover Sheet 2. Reappointment letter on letterhead stating dates, title, and salary 3. Funding documentation: If Columbia University will not be financially supporting your scholar, the scholar must document the ability to cover living expenses. J-1 Scholar - $2,800 per month; J-2 Spouse - $1,000 per month; Each J-2 child - $500 per month. (Refer to the Funding Documents Checklist for acceptable documents) CUIMC Departments 1. Reappointment letter on letterhead stating dates, title, and salary 2. Funding documentation: If Columbia University will not be financially supporting your scholar, the scholar must document the ability to cover living expenses. J-1 Scholar - $2,800 per month; J-2 Spouse - $1,000 per month; Each J-2 child - $500 per month. (Refer to the Funding Documents Checklist for acceptable documents) Expand all Collapse all Submit your extension application Morningside Departments Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to submit all three parts of your application. This application consists of 3 parts. All 3 parts must be completed before we receive your application. Contact us if you are a department administrator requesting access to the SSP. Part 1 Completed by the department (contact us if your UNI and password isn't working) Part 2 Completed by the scholar (per the scholar’s email address entered in Part 1) Part 3 Completed by the department (the department user will get an email when the scholar completes Part 2) Need more help? For a description of the process, visit our SSP Overview page. Visit our SSP Department Guide for technical assistance. CUIMC Departments Log in to Compass (Hyperlink) If you do not already have access to Compass, please complete the Departmental Access Request Form here. Otherwise, proceed to the CUIMC Department Compass User Guide for detailed instructions. We will contact you Allow up to 10 business days for us to review and process your application. We will notify you by email when the extended Form DS-2019 is ready. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close