Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Students Transferring Your F-1 SEVIS Record to Another School Transferring Your F-1 SEVIS Record to Another School If you're going to attend another school next term, ask us to release your electronic SEVIS record to the new school on a date that you choose. The next school cannot generate an I-20 for you until the SEVIS release date. On this page: Eligibility How to Transfer Your SEVIS Record Travel with an F-1 SEVIS Transfer Eligibility To transfer your SEVIS record, you must currently be in F-1 status and meet one of the following: You are currently enrolled at Columbia. You are currently enrolled at Columbia. You have completed your program, but are still within your 60-day grace period. You have completed your program, but are still within your 60-day grace period. You’re currently on a post-completion OPT (including a STEM or Cap-Gap OPT extension) or within the 60-day grace period following the expiration of your OPT. You’re currently on a post-completion OPT (including a STEM or Cap-Gap OPT extension) or within the 60-day grace period following the expiration of your OPT. How to Transfer Determine Your SEVIS Transfer Release Date There are several factors to consider when determining the date on which you would like your SEVIS record released to your next school. Contact us if you have any questions about this. Expand all Collapse all Release Date Considerations Traveling Abroad? If you’re traveling abroad, you will need to have the new school’s I-20 in hand when you return from your trip. This means you need the release date to be early enough for them to process your application for an I-20. OPT in the Summer? If you are going to work on OPT in the summer after your current program before enrolling in the fall at the new school, your release date must be after the last date of work or you will lose the employment eligibility. Currently on Post-Completion OPT or the STEM OPT Extension? If you are currently on post-completion OPT or the STEM OPT extension you need to choose a transfer release date after you stop working. OPT authorization will automatically end on the release date. Gather your documents and information 1. Your new school's admission letter (copy of electronic letter is accepted) 2. Your new school’s SEVIS code 3. Your most recent I-94 arrival record 4. Requested release date. Please note: If you are currently on OPT, be aware that you cannot continue to work after the release date. 5. Paper Transfer-in form. Only if your new school uses a transfer-in form. 6. Electronic Transfer Request. If your new school uses an electronic transfer procedure, you also need to provide them with the following Designated School Official (DSO) contact information: Students transferring out of Morningside campus: Samantha Lu, [email protected] Students transferring out of CUIMC Medical campus: Gwyneth Smith, [email protected] Log in to Compass to submit your application Please click the appropriate link below. ISSO Morningside F-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC Medical Campus F-1 Students Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. We will review your application We will email you when your request has been processed and approved, usually with 10 business days. We will release your SEVIS record Once approved, we will release your SEVIS record to your new school on the agreed upon release date. On this date your new school will have ownership of your SEVIS record and we will no longer have access to it. Check with your new institution on what you need to obtain your new “transfer” I-20. Travel with an F-1 SEVIS transfer If the F-1 visa in your passport is still unexpired, you may continue to use it with your new school’s I-20. You will keep the same SEVIS number and you are considered to be a returning student. If you need to apply for a new visa, you do not need to pay a new SEVIS fee because it is a continuation of the same SEVIS record. Expand all Collapse all Summer Travel If you travel abroad in the summer before starting a program in the fall, you can re-enter the U.S. any time once you have the new school’s transfer-in I-20. If you have further questions concerning your I-20, please contact your new school. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close