Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Students Current Students FAQs Current Students FAQs Updated January 19, 2022 We review this information regularly and update as needed. For the most up-to-date immigration and ISSO information, follow us on our social media channels and view our news updates: Instagram Twitter Facebook ISSOnews (Newsletters) News (Articles) On this page Student FAQs Coming to Campus Immigration status Travel OPT Employment (General) Related Resource EVP COVID-19 Information (Exchange Visitor Program, for students in J-1 Status) NAFSA: Association of International Educators COVID-19 Guidance Sources ISSO FAQs for Admitted Students ISSO Updates and Resources COVID-19 Resource Guide fro the Columbia Community Student FAQs Expand all Collapse all Coming to Campus 1 What is Columbia’s policy for returning to campus during the pandemic, and what are the COVID-19 vaccination and testing requirements to enter the U.S.? (Updated Dec. 6) Refer to Columbia University's COVID-19 Resource Guide, information on the Vaccine Page and the Vaccine FAQs that are updated frequently as new information becomes available. Stay informed by regularly checking University Communications in the University's COVID-19 Resource Guide. Effective November 8, 2021 all nonimmigrant adult travelers to the U.S. are required to show proof of full vaccination and effective December 6, all air travelers aged 2 and older must show a negative result to a COVID-19 test taken within 1 calendar day before departure. Limited exceptions apply. For more detailed information, open this link. Expand all Collapse all Immigration status 1 What are the enrollment requirements for continuing students? Columbia University has resumed in-person instruction and activities. The University expects all students to take in-person courses. Review registration requirements for maintaining F/J status. 2 Are digital (PDF) I-20s and DS-2019s considered valid? F-1 I-20: ISSO is issuing digital I-20s only (in PDF Format) for students and their dependents, per SEVP Guidance. Once you are emailed your I-20, you must print and sign it by hand in ink. This printed I-20 is an original and valid document J-1 DS-2019: The Department of State administers J-1 regulations, and has not provided guidance that permits digital DS-2019 forms. ISSO will continue to ship original DS-2019 forms, signed in ink, to J-1 students and their dependents. Expand all Collapse all Travel and Visas 1 Where can I find up-to-date information on all travel restrictions to the U.S.? On our website, please refer to both our News and Travel Resources sections. In addition, NAFSA maintains a helpful summary of the COVID-19 Travel and Visa Restrictions including the vaccine and negative COVID-19 test requirement for all air travelers eligible to enter the U.S. in effect since November 8, 2021. We also recommend that you review the COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community for the university’s guidance pertaining to travel. Expand all Collapse all OPT Employment (General) 1 Am I allowed to apply for Optional Practical Training (OPT) from outside the U.S.? Unfortunately, F-1 regulations still require you to be physically in the U.S. at the time you submit your OPT or STEM OPT Extension application to USCIS. Post-completion OPT - If you are abroad make sure you return to the U.S in F-1 status before the end of your final semester. Refer to the OPT Application process on our website. STEM OPT Extension - You must return and apply before the expiration of your current OPT. Refer to the STEM OPT Extension application information here. 2 Can I file my OPT application (Form I-765) online? Yes, it is possible to apply online by creating a USCIS Online Account. USCIS maintains the requirement that you are in the U.S. when you submit the application. Full application instructions are on our OPT webpages. Pre-Completion OPT Post-Completion OPT STEM OPT Extension 3 Am I allowed to go home after submitting my OPT application to USCIS from the U.S.? If so, will I be permitted to return to the U.S. to work once my application is approved? You are allowed to leave the U.S. when an OPT application is pending at USCIS, but there has always been an element of uncertainty. The basic risk factor is that USCIS may contact you requesting additional information. You will need to be able to respond in a timely manner. That has always been true and in these extraordinary times it remains to be true. In the best case scenario, if your application is processed smoothly, your EAD is delivered to a valid U.S. address, where someone is checking your mail. If they take an image of your EAD and email it to you for you to print, you may be able to enter the U.S. with your travel documents (I-20, EAD print out and valid visa). If you are outside of the U.S. with an approved OPT application but without the EAD in hand, it may be a problem reentering the U.S. If your application is denied while you are abroad, please contact the ISSO for guidance. An additional risk factor in the time of COVID-19 is that international travel and visa restrictions are unpredictable. 4 Can I work fewer than 20 hours per week because of the COVID-19 situation? US government guidance indicates that for the duration of the COVID-19 emergency, students who are working on Post-Completion OPT and the STEM OPT Extension fewer than 20 hours per week are still engaging in OPT and are NOT accumulating any days of unemployment. The guidance did not specify a minimum number of hours that must be worked. 5 Am I allowed to work remotely while on OPT/STEM due to COVID-19? Yes, you may work remotely for a U.S. employer while on OPT and you do not need to do a second report that the employment has become remote. If you are currently engaged in the STEM OPT Extension, you don’t have to submit a new I-983 if working remotely. 6 Can I update my EAD if I did not receive the full 12 months? If your application was received on or after October 1, 2020 through October 31, 2021, inclusive, and you lost some allowable OPT time on your EAD because of a long USCIS processing delay, you may request a correction due to USCIS error. USCIS will issue a corrected EAD with a new end date, as requested, to cover the full amount of OPT time recommended in the original application. Go to this USCIS page on EADs and refer to the information in the tab "Replace an EAD" and follow the instructions for "If your EAD contains incorrect information because of a USCIS error..." Before you return your incorrectly shortened EAD to USCIS, be sure you have met your employer’s requirements for the onboarding/hiring process which may require viewing your actual card, not a copy. Make a copy of all documents submitted to USCIS for your own records. Related Resources SEVP COVID-19 FAQs - (Student & Exchange Visitor Program for students in F Status) EVP COVID-19 Information (Exchange Visitor Program, for students in J-1 Status) ISSO FAQs for Admitted Students NAFSA: Association of International Educators COVID-19 Guidance Sources ISSO Updates and Resources COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Expand all Collapse all Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close