Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Students Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal If you are considering a leave of absence (LOA) or withdrawing, please speak with us in advance to see how it will affect your immigration status and employment eligibility when you return. If you have been suspended from your academic program, please speak with us about the effect on your immigration status. On this page Before You Apply How to Apply Returning from a Leave FAQs Expand all Collapse all Before You Apply What happens to your F-1/J-1 SEVIS record Your current F-1 or J-1 SEVIS record will be terminated after the official notification, and you will have to leave the U.S. in 15 days. Your current I-20 or DS-2019 form will no longer be valid and may not be used for future travel to the U.S. but should be kept for your records. When to apply for a new I-20/DS-2019 You’ll need to apply for a new I-20 or DS-2019 form 2-3 months in advance of returning to resume your full-time studies. This will be created in a new SEVIS record and you will need to pay a new SEVIS fee. Eligibility for Practical Training (F-1 students) An F-1 student returning from a leave must be enrolled for two consecutive full-time semesters before being eligible for Practical Training authorization. Impact on Student Health Insurance coverage Medical leaves and non-medical withdrawals are treated differently for maintaining insurance coverage. Learn more from Columbia Health. If a leave of absence, suspension, or withdrawal is necessary, complete the following steps: Have the absence approved by your school, department, or academic advisor A LOA, suspension or withdrawal must originate or be approved by your school. Notify us for proper and timely advice We need to know the terms and conditions. If you received your approval of the LOA from your school through an email, letter, or form, please forward it to us. Leave the U.S. Leave within 15 days of your leave being approved. Returning From a Leave To request a new I-20/DS-2019 to return to Columbia after a leave, complete the following steps: Gather your documents and information ✓ Evidence that your school is expecting you back and when you are expected to complete your program This can be an email from your school to you ✓ The identification page of your passport If it has changed since you first arrived ✓ Financial Certification Form This should be with financial documents no more than 3 months old to cover tuition, fees and living expenses for an academic year unless you need only one semester to complete your program. ✓ Funding Documents As listed on your Financial Certification Form Login to Compass with your UNI and password to submit your application Please click on the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside F-1 and J-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC F-1 and J-1 Students Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. We will contact you Allow up to 2 weeks for us to review your application. F-1: If your request is approved, we will email your new digital initial I-20 form for you to print with additional instructions. J-1: We will notify you by email when your new initial DS-2019 is ready to be shipped. Pay a new SEVIS fee Only do this after you receive the new I-20/DS-2019 because you need the new SEVIS number. Apply for a new F-1/J-1 entry visa if applicable Apply for a new visa if your current visa has expired. Submit the Online SEVIS Report form within 7 days after your arrival Submit this form within 7 days after your arrival. Enter the U.S. no more than 30 days in advance of your start date. Although this is not your first time at Columbia, reporting this arrival is necessary to activate your new SEVIS record. Expand all Collapse all Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Can I come back to the U.S. during my leave? Yes, you may make short, temporary visits but not in F or J status. You would have to come in B-2 visitor status or with a visa waiver (ESTA) if you qualify. Can I use F-1 Optional Practical Training or J-1 Academic Training to work while I’m on a leave? No. Optional Practical Training (OPT) or Academic Training (AT) are directly linked to your student status. If you have not yet graduated, you need to be enrolled full-time to be eligible for part-time work on or off-campus. If the purpose of your leave is to pursue employment in the United States you would need to be able to change to a different visa status that supports employment. Speak with one of our advisers before you finalize your plans. Do I need to get a new entry visa when I return from a leave? If you have an unexpired F-1 or J-1 visa, you may continue to use it with your newly-issued I-20/DS-2019. Can I use F-1 OPT as soon as I return? No. The OPT clock is reset. Once you resume your studies with a new SEVIS record and a new I-20, you will not be eligible for practical training until you have completed one academic year (2 semesters) in F-1 status. Be aware that if you only have one semester left to complete your program, you will not be eligible for post-completion OPT. What if my leave of absence is due to health issues and I need to continue medical treatment in the U.S.? Please contact us for additional guidance. Related Information Reducing Your Courseload Transfer Your SEVIS Record to Another School Applying for a Visa Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close