Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Students Your Final Term and Beyond Your Final Term and Beyond Your Final Term and Beyond Congratulations on your upcoming graduation! There are a lot of things to think about and to do as you finish up the last semester of your program. On This Page calendar icon I-20/DS-2019 Program End Dates hourglass icon Grace Period to Remain in the U.S. Before Departure graduation-cap icon Inviting Family and Friends for Graduation building icon Moving Out of Columbia Housing book icon Staying in the U.S. for Further Studies briefcase icon Staying in the US to Work in F or J Status clipboard icon Obtaining and Filing Tax Forms After You Leave globe icon Stay Connected to Columbia I-20/DS-2019 Program End Dates arrow-circle-left icon Graduating earlier than the program end date on your I-20 /DS-2019? Let us know if you will be graduating earlier than the program end date on your I-20 /DS-2019. We need to update your record and you need to be aware of deadlines. Contact us via email: Morningside/Manhattanville CUIMC arrow-circle-right icon Need more time to complete your program? You must request this extension before your current I-20/DS-2019 expires. Follow the instructions at Extending Your Current Program. Grace Period to Remain in the U.S. After I-20/DS-2019 Program End Date clock icon Leave the U.S. before your grace period expires The grace period allows you to remain in the U.S. past your program end date to get ready to leave, travel within the U.S or apply for a change to another status. You may not engage in any form of employment during your grace period. F-1 Grace Period: 60 Days Does not apply while your OPT application is pending with USCIS. You may remain in the US for as long as it takes USCIS to adjudicate your request. You will have a 60-day grace period after your authorized OPT expires. J-1 Grace Period: 30 Days Does not apply if you have applied for J-1 Academic Training. You will have 30 days after your Academic Training expires to prepare for departure. plane icon Leaving and Returning to the U.S. during Grace Period If you are have not applied for F-1 Optional Practical Training or J-1 Academic Training, you cannot return to the U.S. in F or J status status during the grace period. If you need to return during the grace period, you may be able to return as a visitor in B-1/B-2 status or under ESTA, but in this case you would no longer be eligible to apply for F-1 OPT or J-1 AT upon your return because of entering the U.S. in a different status. Inviting Friends & Family to Graduation When you invite your family and friends to visit you for graduation or at any other time while you're at Columbia, they might need your help getting a visa. Check if your guests are eligible to apply for the visa waiver program (ESTA). If they are not, they may apply for the B-2 visitor visa. For more details and information, including a list of documents you need, check our page below. Learn More Moving Out of Columbia Housing Moving out can be as stressful as moving in. Review the information below to be prepared for what you need to do and when. Most housing agreements end May 31. Morningside CUIMC Undergraduate Residence Hall N/A Graduate Student Apartments Student Apartments Staying in the U.S. for Further Studies search-plus icon Extending Starting a new academic program at Columbia. Extend your F-1 or J-1 status by applying for a new I-20/DS-2019 for the new program before the end of your grace period. Follow the instructions at Beginning a New Program. font-awesome icon Transferring Starting a new academic program at another U.S. school. Transfer your SEVIS record before the end of your grace period. See instructions at: (F-1)Transferring out of Columbia (J-1)Transferring out of Columbia Staying in the U.S. to Work in F or J Status As a graduating student in F or J status you may be eligible for 12 months or more of authorization to work in the U.S in your field of study after the completion of your program. Learn how to apply and how to comply with the terms of your status. listl icon Apply for OPT or AT Learn how to apply in your final term for employment authorization in your field of study to begin after graduation: F-1: Optional Practical Training J-1: Academic Training address-card icon Comply with F-1 OPT/STEM OPT Requirements Reporting: Be mindful of your OPT reporting requirements. Travel: Review Travel During OPT for documents you need if you leave and return to the US during OPT. Apply online for a new travel signature, if needed. F-1 OPT I-20 travel signatures are valid for 6 months, not 12, during OPT. address-card icon Comply with J-1 AT Requirements Evaluation: Submit an Academic Training Evaluation form upon completion of the training. Travel: Review Documents Needed for Travel if you leave and return to the US during Academic Training. Apply online for a new travel signature. If needed. The Travel Signature on your DS-2019 is valid for 12 months or until the end date of your DS-2019, whichever is sooner. Obtaining and Filing Tax Forms After You Leave You can continue to use Sprintax tax software as a Columbia graduate for a free nonresident federal tax return when you log in from our website with your UNI and password. You are a “nonresident alien” for your first 5 tax years in F/J status in the U.S. Check our tax pages in late February/early March. The deadline for a tax return is usually April 15th. question-circle icon Did you work this year? If you worked in the past year, give your address to your department or payroll (and any other employers) to get the W-2 that you’ll need to file your tax return, usually by the end off January. We recommend you arrange for an electronic copy of the W-2. Check this list of Year End Tax Reporting Documents to see if there is anything else to follow up on. dollar icon Did you receive a stipend or travel grant from Columbia this year? If you received a fellowship/scholarship stipend or travel grant from Columbia, learn about the 1042-S form you may receive by March 15th next year. Contact the Human Resources Service Center by submitting this ServiceNow Form or by calling the HR Service Center at 212-851-2888. check-square icon Check back on Taxes! Log in to Sprintax with your UNI and password from our website for a free nonresident federal tax return. If you are still a nonresident, don’t file a resident tax return through TurboTax or similar software and commit tax fraud in error! If Sprintax informs that you have become a "resident alien". check our webpage on resources for Filing a Resident Tax Return. Staying Connected to Columbia copy icon Official Transcripts It may be advantageous to get extra transcripts while you are still in the United States. Request them through Columbia Student Service Online (SSOL). Be sure to clear your student account so your diploma and transcripts can be released and you don’t accrue late fees. newspaper icon ISSO Stay current on immigration and other news through ISSO. The ISSOnews is sent to enrolled students, and graduating students are kept on the mailing list for 60 days after their completion date, but you can keep up in these ways: ISSOnews posted on our website every week Video Library News Items Follow us on Instagram and Twitter envelope-square icon Your Columbia Email Address Morningside: LionMail email accounts do not expire for graduates of non-medical programs. There are also options for an Alumni Association email account and email forwarding. Learn More CUIMC: Student accounts "@cumc.columbia.edu" are deleted 90 days after graduation, but Columbia offers alumni a lifetime email address and email forwarding, Learn More address-book icon Columbia Alumni Association Join the Columbia Alumni Association for social and networking opportunities in NYC and around the world! institution icon Columbia Library for Life! Be sure to return library books. Alumni enjoy free lifetime access. Learn more at Columbia Libraries website. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close