Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Sponsoring or Extending: Sponsoring or Extending an E-3 Sponsoring or Extending an E-3 E-3 status is for Australians in a full-time “specialty occupation” that requires a “theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialized knowledge, and attainment of a bachelor's or higher degree, or its equivalent, as a minimum requirement” at a wage that meets the higher of the prevailing wage or the actual wage. The E-3 requirements are similar to H-1B but does not require a petition. On this page: Eligibility Before You Sponsor How to Sponsor / Extend Before You Extend How to Extend Eligibility E-3 sponsorship requires that the scholar meet the following criteria: ✔ must be an Australian citizen ✔ must be in a full-time position as an Officer of Research or Officer of Instruction ✔ the salary meets Department of Labor prevailing wage requirements Expand all Collapse all Before You Sponsor E-3 sponsorship is the best visa option for: 1 Australians seeking an alternative to H-1B 2 Allowing dependent family members to apply for employment authorization There are two ways for the scholar to obtain E-3 status: 1 By applying directly for a visa at a U.S. consulate in Australia 2 Through a Columbia University petition filed by ISSO with USCIS Timeline Begin the process immediately, once the position has been offered. Processing time will depend on whether E-3 status is obtained by travel or inside the U.S. Visa application at a U.S. consulate is recommended over a petition within the U.S. Application by I-129 petition to the USCIS inside the U.S. USCIS processing time is unpredictable, lengthy, but as of 2/24/21 a petition may be expedited through Premium Processing for an additional $2500 fee to USCIS. How to Sponsor / Extend CUMC departments should contact ISSO-CUMC. Gather your documents We need these documents for the Department of Labor (DOL) component of the E-3 application. ✓ Document Cover Sheet ✓ Document Curriculum Vitae, needed for us to select appropriate specialized field. (No CV needed for extensions of the same position) ✓ Document Prevailing Wage Request Form ✓ Document Actual Wage Calculation & Agreement of Notification of Change in Employment sheet ✓ Document A copy of the job description. If the job was posted in RAPS, we need a copy of that description. Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to initiate an online application for E-3 sponsorship This must be initiated by the department, not the scholar. Contact us if you are a department administrator requesting access to the SSP. We will contact you Wait for us to confirm that the position meets Department of Labor eligibility. Receive the LCA When we receive the certified Labor Condition Application (LCA) from the Department of Labor, we will email you for pick-up at our office, in the Nash Building, 3280 Broadway, Suite 510. The processing time is dependent on the individual application, but generally within 20 days. Prepare a letter for your scholar’s visa application This for the prospective E-3 to take to a consulate, preferably in Australia. The letter should: ✓ be printed on department letterhead ✓ state the job title ✓ state the requirements for the position including the degree and field of study needed ✓ state the job duties ✓ state the dates of employment (up to two years) ✓ state the salary (the salary has to meet the prevailing wage on the LCA) Refer the prospective employee to our guidance on how to obtain a visa. Expand all Collapse all During Sponsorship Notify us of any substantial changes in employment This includes: ✓ a new or additional location ✓ different duties ✓ change in title ✓ change in amount or source of funding ✓ resignation ✓ termination Failure to notify us may result in fines imposed on the University and the barring of one year of the hiring of E-3 employees. Extending an E-3 Expand all Collapse all Before You Extend Length of Stay E-3 status can be granted for a two-year period at a time. Although there is no time limit for E-3 status it does require "nonimmigrant intent" and the individual may face increasing scrutiny if they continue to extend over a period of years. How to Extend Follow the same instructions listed above for the extension. CUIMC departments should contact ISSO-CUIMC. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close