Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Students About Your Visa About Your Visa What is a visa? A U.S. visa is an entry document. You can apply for an entry visa only at a U.S. embassy or consulate outside the United States. It is placed on a page in your passport and certifies that the consular officer has found you eligible to apply for admission at a U.S. port of entry in a particular classification, such as F-1 student, J-1 research scholar, or H-1B assistant professor. The CBP (Customs and Border Protection) officer makes the final decision on whether you are eligible to enter the U.S. with the visa and determines the length of time you may stay. Expand all Collapse all Things to know about a U.S. visa 1 The visa expiration date doesn't indicate how long you may stay The visa expiration date is the date until which you can re-enter the U.S. in the same classification with valid, unexpired supporting documents. The period of time you may remain in the U.S. is connected to the end of an academic program, or an authorized period of research or employment. Your visa may expire while you’re in the U.S. If your visa expires while you are in the U.S. it has no effect whatsoever on your status. However, if your visa is expired when you leave the U.S. to travel abroad, you will need to renew your visa at a U.S. consulate or embassy to return in the same status. 2 The length of a visa’s validity is based on reciprocity agreements between your country and the U.S. The reciprocity agreements address both the duration and the number of entries that are allowed. A consular officer, after review of an individual’s visa application, has discretion in the application of the reciprocity agreement. What to know more? Learn about the reciprocity agreements. 3 You can continue to use an unexpired visa in an expired passport when: it is in an expired passport and you travel with both your expired and valid passports it was issued for a previous school you attended and you travel with a Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 from Columbia it was issued for a previous or concurrent employer and you travel with an approved petition from Columbia (H-1B; O-1) 4 If you lose your passport, you cannot replace the visa in a new passport in the U.S. After you have your passport replaced, you can apply for a new visa only at a U.S. consulate or embassy abroad. 5 You can have more than one visa in your passport, but you can enter the U.S. in only one status. If you have visited the U.S. for different purposes, you may have more than one visa in your passport. However, you can have only one status while you are in the United States. The visa which is used for your admission to the U.S. becomes the status you will hold. How to read and understand a visa The following image is taken from the travel.state.gov website. Review their Frequently Asked Questions page for additional visa information. What is status? One of the most common sources of confusion is the difference between your visa and your status. Your visa is an entry document. When you present your passport, visa and supporting documents at a U.S. port of entry, you are admitted in a nonimmigrant status that matches the classification of the visa in your passport. This is also referred to as "immigration status" or “visa status”. The status in which you are admitted by a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officer is stamped in your passport and generates an electronic I-94 Arrival Record. You may also obtain a new status in the U.S. through approval of a change of status application by USCIS. Once you have obtained your status, you need to be aware of what you need to do---and not do-- to maintain your legal nonimmigrant status as a student or a scholar. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close