Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Taxes Filing Your Non-Resident Tax Forms using Sprintax (F and J) Filing Your Non-Resident Tax Forms using Sprintax (F and J) File Your Nonresident Tax Forms Use Sprintax to process the required Form 8843 if you were in the U.S. in F/J status at any time in 2021 but didn't have any U.S. income. If you had U.S. income in 2021, Sprintax can prepare your nonresident tax return that will include the 8843. The deadline is April 18, 2022. ON THIS PAGE calendar icon Tax Webinars clock icon Before You File question-circle icon About Sprintax listl icon How to File Taxes Using Sprintax commenting icon Special Situations external-link icon Related Information Sprintax Tax Webinars Sprintax hosted virtual tax webinars to provide information on the nonresident tax-filing process for Columbia international students and scholars in F/J status. Watch the Sprintax/Columbia Tax Webinar for 2021 Tax Year (April 1, 2022) Before You File Have you reviewed the information on our U.S. Tax Basics page? Form 8843 Requirement for All Fs and Js If you are in F or J status who is a "nonresident alien" (NRA) and you were physically in the U.S. at any time between January 1 – December 31, 2021, you are obligated to send IRS Form 8843, even if you had no U.S. income to the Internal Revenue Service. If you did have U.S. income, your full nonresident tax return will include form 8843. ISSO Cannot Provide Individual Tax Advice U.S. and state income tax laws are complex and each individual's situation is unique. Learn more at our U.S. Income Tax Basics. Due to the complexities of U.S. tax law and legal restrictions,university staff are neither qualified nor permitted to advise on taxes. Don't Panic! Sprintax Is Here to Help! The ISSO provides access to Sprintax for you to use at no cost for federal forms so you don’t have figure out the forms you need and how to fill them in. Sprintax is a tax preparation software designed for international students, scholars, their dependents and alumni to prepare your required Form 8843 and nonresident federal tax return. Don't Use TurboTax or Other Resident Tax Software! If you are a nonresident for federal tax purposes, you must file a nonresident tax return. Do not commit tax fraud by mistakenly filing a resident tax return. Sprintax helps you determine your federal tax status. About Sprintax You don’t have to navigate complicated U.S. tax regulations if you use Sprintax. Simply answer a series of questions about the time you have spent in the U.S., the immigration status(es) you held, and any U.S. source payments you have received. What does Sprintax do? Determines your federal tax residency status (“nonresident alien” (NRA) or “resident alien”). If it determines you are a resident alien, you cannot continue to use Sprintax and should refer to Resources for Filing a Resident Tax Return page for information. Applies all relevant allowances, deductions, and tax treaty provisions. Generates your required completed form(s) as PDFs, including an 8843 for each of your dependents, for you to print and sign, along with mailing instructions. Informs you if you have a state tax liability and offers the option of completing a state tax return for an individual fee. Support If you need help while using Sprintax, you can : use 24/7 Live Chat Help refer to their FAQs email at [email protected] call 1-866-601-5695 If you choose to complete Form 8843 on your own instead of using Sprintax, be aware that the IRS mailing address is on page 3 and the ISSO cannot answer any questions about how to fill it out. How to File Taxes Using Sprintax Review Documents and Information You May Need Follow Sprintax Instructions to Complete Federal Tax Forms Complete Your State Tax Return, If Applicable Log In and Create a Sprintax Account Mail Your Completed Tax Forms By the Deadline Sprintax Process Read all the steps before logging in to Sprintax in Step 4. Review Documents and Information You May Need Determine which forms and documents from the list below that are relevant to you. If you had U.S. source income, you will receive one or more forms (W-2, 1042-S, 1099) indicating the type, source and amount of income received. Learn more about income types at our U.S. Income Tax Basics page. 1. Passport 2. Visa/Immigration status information, including Form I-20 (F status) or Form DS-2019 (J status) 3. U.S. entry and exit dates for current and past visits to the U.S. In addition to passport stamps, you can review or print your U.S. travel history here 4. Social Security or Individual Taxpayer Identification Number. This is required if you have U.S. income to report, but NOT needed if you had no income and the 8843 is the only form you have to file. 5. W-2. This form reports your wage earnings if you worked. If you had more than one employer you should get a W-2 from each employer. It is issued by the end of January for the previous year. Make sure the Human Resources of any off-campus employers (CPT, OPT, STEM-OPT, Academic Training) have an up-to-date address for you and contact them if you did not receive a W-2. If you worked for Columbia, go to Access Your W-2 Information to get an electronic copy. If you need a corrected W-2 or if you still have questions on your W-2, you can submit a question via completion of this ServiceNow Form or call HR Service Center at 212-851-2888. 6. 1042-S. This form is issued to report: (1) stipend, scholarship, fellowship income and travel grants. Tuition exemption or reduction is NOT taxable income and is not included on the 1042-S. (2) income covered by a tax treaty (3) payment for other types of services that are paid by the semester (e.g. note-taker). The 1042-S is generally issued by HR in the first 2 weeks of March. If you believe you should have received a 1042-S from Columbia, check by submitting this Human Resources Service Center form or call them at 212 851-2888. If you received a U.S. source fellowship from another grantor, contact them. Generally, with a few exceptions for tax-exempt income based on treaties, only Nonresident Aliens receive this form. If your tax status changed last year to a Resident Alien because of having spent more than 5 years in the U.S. you may not get a 1042-S. If you're not sure of your tax status, log in to Sprintax to check. 7. 1099. This form reports various types of income. A 1099-INT could be interest on bank accounts, stocks, bonds, dividends. Interest on U.S. savings and checking accounts is not taxable for nonresidents. a 1099-MISC may report earning through free-lance or independent contractor employment. ✘ 1098-T. This form is NOT needed and can NOT be used on a nonresident tax return because NRAs are not eligible to claim education expense tax credits. If, however, you have become a resident for federal tax purposes, you can find 1098-T information on the Student Financial Services website. ✘ 1095-A, 1095-B, 1095-C. These forms report different types of healthcare coverage and are not needed for a Nonresident tax return. Follow the Instructions in Sprintax to Complete Federal Tax Forms If You Did Not Have U.S. Income: Sprintax will generate a completed Form 8843 for you and each of your dependents. (Each dependent must mail their own 8843 in a separate envelope.) If You Had U.S. Income: Sprintax will generate: a completed Form 8843 for you (and each of your dependents.) a federal tax return, with either a 1040NR-EZ or form 1040NR, depending on your circumstances. a W-7 application for an ITIN if you do not have an SSN or an ITIN. See Special Situations below Complete Your State Tax Return, If Applicable After you finish your federal return, Sprintax will inform you if your income necessitates a state tax return as well. If so, you may choose to use Sprintax for an individual fee of $39.95. It is optional, however, and you may want to complete a NY State or other state tax return on your own. Remember that each state has its own income tax regulations, forms, and definitions of tax status. New York State residency rules are different than those of the Internal Revenue Service. You may be a nonresident alien for federal tax purposes but be a resident for state tax purposes. Learn more about a NY State Tax return at our U.S. Income Tax Basics page. Log In and Create a Sprintax Account Do not file your 2021 tax return until you have all of your income statements! Some students and scholars get both a W-2 and a 1042-S. depending on the type of income. The 1042-S is generally issued in the first two weeks of March. When you log in through the Columbia Portal below with your UNI and password, it will take you to the Sprintax/Columbia page where you need to create a Sprintax account with a new username and password. Log In to Sprintax No longer at Columbia? Find out how to use Sprintax under "Special Situations" below. Submit Your Completed Tax Forms By the Deadline Remember to read the detailed mailing instructions that Sprintax provides, and mail by the deadline*: April 18, 2022 if you have a tax return reporting income. This is an extension by the IRS from the usual deadline of April 15th; June 15, 2022 if you had no income and your 8843 is the only form you are obligated to file. If you have dependents, each one must mail their own 8843 in a separate envelope. *Your envelope must be date-stampd by the post office or receipted by a courier service such as FedEx by the deadline. Special Situations Expand all Collapse all 1 Do you have a J-2 spouse who worked and has to file their own tax return? A J-2 spouse with employment authorization who had income will need to file their own tax return because nonresidents cannot file a joint tax return. Request a Sprintax code by email from the ISSO that serves your campus. You can use the personal email address of a scholar adviser you have had contact with, or if not: ISSO Morningside campus: [email protected] ISSO-CUIMC: [email protected] After you get the code, you will need to go to https://www.sprintax.com to create a Sprintax account with a username and password. At the end of the process, you will get to a "checkout" page. Enter the code to have the charge for the federal forms removed. 2 How to use Sprintax when you're no longer at Columbia Students: if you're a student who graduated, otherwise left a program, or are on a leave of absence, log in to Sprintax in Step 4 with your UNI and password, regardless of whether you are living in the U.S. or abroad. Scholars who are no longer at Columbia and no longer have a valid UNI should email their ISSO Scholar Services office linked below to request a Sprintax code. After you get the code, you will need to go to https://www.sprintax.com to create a Sprintax account with a username and password. At the end of the process, you will get to a "checkout" page. Enter the code to have the charge for the federal forms removed. ISSO Morningside / Manhattanville Faculty and Scholar Services ISSO-CUIMC Faculty and Scholar Services 3 How to get your passport certified for your W-7 ITIN Application When filing a W-7 with a tax return, IRS requires your passport to be certified (not notarized by a notary public) . Valid certification: Identification documents must be certified in order to be accepted by the IRS for processing. The acceptable certification methods are: An IRS Taxpayer Assistance Center (TAC) can verify your passport and authenticate your W-7 application. An appointment is required. Take your original tax return and W-7 application and original documents. Read more here. Find a NY TAC here. Certification by the issuing agency - the body (governmental office or department) which released the document. Depending on your country of citizenship, it may be possible to have your passport certified at your Consulate in NY US consular officer certification 4 Are you eligible for a FICA refund? If Social Security/Medicare taxes (referred to as FICA) were withheld in error by Columbia, you can contact HR to request a refund by submitting this ServiceNow Form or by calling the HR Service Center at 212-851-2888. If another employer withheld this tax, you can ask them to process the refund. If they do not want or are unable to do this, you can file a claim for a refund from the IRS. Sprintax can prepare the forms for you for a fee, or you can file Form 843. You will need to refer to form 843 instructions and page 44 of IRS publication 519 under "Refund of Taxes Withheld in Error". 5 Do you need a 6-month extension to file your tax return? If you are due a refund, there is no penalty for filing late. If you owe money you have to file for the 6-month extension by April 15th but you need to pay at the same time. The extension will go through October 15th. The links to e-file an extension are below: Federal Tax Return Extension NY State Tax Return Extension 6 Do you need to file an amended return? If you realize that you made an error on this year's or a prior year's tax return, or you filed a resident tax return when it should have been a nonresident alien tax return, you can file an amended return. Sprintax can do it for you for a fee. Alternatively, you can try to do it yourself by following IRS instructions for IRS Form 1040-X, in which you compare the amounts in the original form you filed with the new correct form. 7 IRS COVID Stimulus Payments The first IRS COVID $1200 stimulus payment for US citizens and "resident alien" tax filers was enacted by Congress in April 2020, and the second $600 payment in December 2020. Learn whether you were eligible to receive and keep them here. Related Information U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Resources for Filing a Resident Tax Return Social Security Number Application ISSO Tax Workshops Access Your W-2 Information 1042-S Information TL-11A - Canadian Tuition Receipt Student Service Center Contact Information Student Financial Services IRS Form 8843 (Note that the IRS mailing address is on page 3 of the instructions) Electronic Toolkit for Nonresident Aliens (IRS) Publication 519: U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens Federal Tax Return Extension NY State Tax Return Extension I-94 Travel Records Sprintax FAQs Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close