Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Employment Outside of Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia If you are already at Columbia, holding a visa status sponsored by Columbia that allows you to conduct research or teach, you are allowed to accept additional employment in very limited situations (as listed below). Expand all Collapse all J-1 Overview Employment authorization for J-1 research scholars is limited to the activity described on your DS-2019 form, except for occasional engagements outside Columbia such as a lecture, participation in a symposium or a short-term consultation. The activity must be directly related to the objectives of your J-1 Exchange Visitor program and not delay its completion. Letter of Permission You must request a letter of permission from us in advance of the activity that allows you to receive remuneration from a third party. Expand all Collapse all H-1B and E-3 Overview Both H-1B and E-3 status are employer-specific and employment-specific. This means you may work only for Columbia and only for the job duties specified when your employment status was approved. Your hiring department must inform the ISSO for your campus (ISSO Morningside or ISSO-CUIMC) immediately of any proposed changes in the terms and conditions of employment including changes in salary, job location, title, job duties and responsibilities, since such changes may require us to file amended paperwork with the U.S. Department of Labor and the U.S. Citizenship & Immigration Services (USCIS). Honoraria and Consultation Fees Your H-1 B or E-3 status does not allow you to accept honoraria and consultation fees paid by another employer. You may be reimbursed for expenses for talks and presentations at other institutions, but no other payment may be accepted. Furthermore, Columbia University policy prohibits remuneration from external sources to be routed through the university. Concurrent Employment If the terms of your Columbia employment allow for concurrent employment with another employer, it must be authorized by USCIS. In this instance, the prospective employer must file an I-129 petition for concurrent H-1B or E-3 employment on your behalf. Part-time Employment Please note that Columbia University does not sponsor part-time employment (including for adjunct faculty) for either H-1B or E-3 visa holders. Refer to policy set by University Provost. Expand all Collapse all O-1 Overview O-1 status is employer-specific and employment-specific. This means you may work only for Columbia and only for the job duties specified when your employment status was approved. Your hiring department must inform the ISSO for your campus (ISSO Morningside or ISSO-CUIMC) immediately of any proposed changes in the terms and conditions of employment including changes in salary, job location, title, job duties and responsibilities, since such changes may require us to file amended paperwork with the U.S. Citizenship & Immigration Services (USCIS). Honoraria and Consultation Fees Your O-1 status with Columbia does not allow you to accept honoraria and consultation fees paid by another employer. You may be reimbursed for expenses for talks and presentations at other institutions, but no other payment may be accepted. Furthermore, Columbia University policy prohibits remuneration from external sources to be routed through the university. Concurrent Employment If the terms of your Columbia employment allow for concurrent employment with another employer, it must be authorized by USCIS. In this instance, the prospective employer must file an I-129 petition for concurrent O-1 employment on your behalf. Expand all Collapse all TN Overview TN status for both Canadian and Mexican nationals is both employer-specific and employment-specific. Your hiring department must inform the ISSO for your campus (ISSO Morningside or ISSO-CUIMC) immediately of any proposed changes in the terms and conditions of employment including changes in salary, job location, title, job duties and responsibilities, since such changes may require us to file amended paperwork with the U.S. Citizenship & Immigration Services (USCIS). Honoraria and Consultation Fees Your TN status does not allow you to accept honoraria and consultation fees paid by another employer. You may be reimbursed for expenses for talks and presentations at other institutions, but no other payment may be accepted. Furthermore, Columbia University policy prohibits remuneration from external sources to be routed through the university. Concurrent Employment If the terms of your Columbia employment allow for concurrent employment with another employer, it must be authorized by USCIS. In this instance, the prospective employer must file an I-129 petition for concurrent TN employment on your behalf. Postdoctoral Incidental Career Development Activities The Office of Postdoctoral Affairs has policy guidance on incidental career development activities. Those holding postdoctoral titles, regardless of visa immigration status, must follow their guidelines and obtain all approvals required by that office. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close