Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Sponsoring or Extending: Sponsoring or Extending H-1B Sponsoring or Extending H-1B The H-1B position needs to qualify as a “specialty occupation” that requires a “theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialized knowledge, and attainment of a bachelor's or higher degree, or its equivalent, as a minimum requirement” at a wage that meets the higher of the prevailing wage or the actual wage, and the applicant must hold the required degree in the field of employment. This means both the position and the employee must meet H-1B eligibility criteria. On this page H-1B Requirements Before You Sponsor / Petition Overview How to Sponsor / Extend Before You Extend How to Extend Related Resources (incl. Site Visit Guidance) Department User Guides CUIMC: Compass Guide and Training Webinar Morningside/Manhattanville: Overview of SSP (Scholar Sponsorship Portal) and SSP User Guide H-1B Requirements ✓ The position needs to qualify as a “specialty occupation” and the applicant must hold the required degree in the field of employment. In academia, this is usually not an issue. For example, an Assistant Professor in Economics will have a PhD in Economics and not another field of study. ✓ The position needs to be paid by Columbia for at least the prevailing wage set by the Department of Labor (DOL). ✓ Employment is specific to the H-1B petitioner and allows compensation only from the employer for the work described in the petition. Inform us in writing of any substantial changes in the employment such as change in end date, employment location, title, duties, source of funding. An amended petition may be required. ✓ Export Control Compliance--Per federal regulations, Columbia University must certify as part of the H-1B petition whether the University needs a license from the federal government in order to allow the prospective employee to access certain controlled technology or technical data. ✓ Columbia’s H-1B petitions must be filed by Columbia’s international office--no outside attorneys are permitted. Expand all Collapse all Before You Sponsor / Petition Overview Positions that qualify for H-1B sponsorship ✓ Full-time research positions at the Associate Research level or higher. ✓ Postdoctoral and Staff Associate position eligibility must be determined by ISSO on a case-by-case basis. ✓ Tenure-track faculty ✓ Full-time clinical faculty ✓ Full-time lecturing positions ✓ Other full-time research or lecture positions in situations listed below: J-1 sponsorship is not possible (time cap on J-1 already reached) J-1 sponsorship is not possible because of the 12 or 24 month bar Permanent residency petition is pending The prospective employee currently holds H-1 status elsewhere ✓ Administrative positions at a Level 14 (Morningside/Manhattanville) and Grade 106 (CUIMC) or higher. It must qualify as a "specialty occupation" with the candidate holding the specialized degree the position requires Part-time positions do not qualify per University Policy. Length of Stay H-1B status is generally limited to six years, with each petition not greater than for 3 years. Typically, the initial petition is for 3 years, with an extension for another 3 years. Contact us at least six months in advance of the 6-year mark to discuss eligibility for an additional extension or alternative options for visa status. Timeline Initiate H-1B sponsorship 6 months in advance to ensure timely filing and adjudication of the petition, allow time for the applicant's visa application (if needed), and facilitate international travel. An H-1B petition involves processing time by two government agencies, the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). You may expedite the final step of the petition with an additional Premium Processing fee, which guarantees USCIS action on the petition within 15 calendar days from the date they receive the petition. H-1B vs. J-1: Differences to Consider J-1 visa status may be preferable to H-1B for many non tenure-track positions, because it: ✓ allows changes in funding sources (grants/salary/personal funds) ✓ allows remuneration for occasional lectures or short-term consultations, incident to status ✓ maximizes scholar’s time as a nonimmigrant before acquiring H-1B status ( if using J-1 status for up to 5 years) ✓ allows J-2 spouses to apply for employment authorization to the USCIS ✓ is a much faster process, taking only days for the ISSO to issue a J-1 certificate of eligibility for the scholar to use to apply for a J-1 visa. ✓ carries no cost to academic departments, but H-1B government filing fees must be paid by academic departments ✓ may be beneficial regarding income tax Learn more about J-1. How to Sponsor / Extend Gather these documents Open one of the links below for information specific to your campus. Expand all Collapse all Morningside/Manhattanville Departments To learn how to begin the process, watch our short video Sponsoring an H-1B Visa at Columbia. We need these documents to verify that the position is appropriate for H-1B status and for the Department of Labor (DOL) component of the H-1B petition. ✓ Cover Sheet ✓ Curriculum Vitae. Needed for selection of the appropriate specialized field., but not needed for extension. ✓ A copy of the job description, from RAPS if posted there. ✓ Copies of all the employee's previous J-1 or J-2 documentation, if applicable ✓ Prevailing Wage Request Form ✓ Actual Wage Calculation & Agreement of Notification of Change in Employment sheet CUIMC Departments We need this information and documentation to verify that the position is appropriate for H-1B status and for the Department of Labor (DOL) component of the H-1B petition. You will be prompted to provide information about the position when you log in to Compass and respond to the questions. ✓ Documents and information needed Appointment or continuing employment letter including: job title, brief job description, salary information, proposed dates of employment, and work locations (on-campus and any off-site locations) ✓ Documents and information needed Job posting from RAPS or TalentLink ✓ Documents and information needed CV of prospective employee ✓ Documents and information needed Details about the position and comparable salaries ✓ Documents and information needed All current immigration documentation of prospective employee, if applicable Submit your application Open one of the links below for instructions specific to your campus. Expand all Collapse all Morningside/Manhattanville Departments Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to initiate an online application for H-1B sponsorship. This must be initiated by the department, not the employee. Contact us if you are a department administrator requesting access to the SSP. Refer to our SSP Department Guide for detailed instructions including an SSP overview. CUIMC Departments Log in to Compass to submit this part of the application. Refer to our CUIMC Department User Guide or Training Webinar for detailed instructions. Please complete the Request Access to Compass form if needed. This application consists of four (4)steps: Step 1 Department submits H-1B Position Details and Comparable Wage Information, and waits for ISSO-CUIMC approval. Once approved, the department gives access to the H-1B employee. Step 2 H-1B employee completes information and uploads documents. Step 3 Department compiles two identical hard copy sets of all supporting documents and completes Deemed Export Control Attestation. Step 4 Department delivers paper documents and USCIS checks to ISSO-CUIMC and completes the Departmental Final Attestation. Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Gather documents and checks for USCIS fees Open one of the links below for information specific to your campus. Expand all Collapse all Morningside/Manhattanville Departments Both the department and the H-1B applicant provide documentation The department is responsible for the documents and checks listed in items 1 - 5 on the table below, and for collecting items 6 - 11 from each prospective employee items 12 - 18, depending on the employee's current status A complete set of application materials is comprised of both sets of documentation. 1. Documents and checks Cover Sheet. Place this on top of all the documents when you hand-deliver the application materials Who's responsible Department 2. Documents and checks Offer letter Who's responsible Department 3. Documents and checks Certification Regarding the Release of Controlled Technology. This must be printed on department letterhead. Who's responsible Department 4. Documents and checks Sponsor letter: must be quite detailed and include certain items. Please be sure to include the degree and area of specialization required for the position, especially if the employment is not a teaching position. You may use the Sample Teaching Letter or Sample Research Letter as a guide. Attach the original with ink signature and 2 photocopies of the letter from the sponsor. Who's responsible Department 5. Documents and checks USCIS Fees. Your department must pay all required fees for the H-1B petition. When preparing your check request fin ARC the Payee should be "U.S. Dept of Homeland Security", USCIS Service Center, 38 River Road, Essex Junction, VT 05479-0001. Use only "hold for pick-up". All fees must be on separate checks. [1] $460 I-129 Petition. [2] $500 Fraud Prevention and Detection Fee (for new H-1B employment at Columbia only). [3] $2500 - Premium Processing fee (effective Oct. 19, 2020). Optional fee which guarantees USCIS action on the petition within 15 calendar days from receipt. [4] $370 - I-539 Change of status/extension of stay application for dependents (If no spouse or children dependents, this is not a required fee. Who's responsible Department 6. Documents and checks Data Sheet completed by H-1B employee Who's responsible Employee 7, Documents and checks CV. Submit three (3) only if it was not provided in Step 1. Who's responsible Employee 8. Documents and checks Highest Diploma:Three (3) copies of the highest diploma earned in the original language and the transcript (may be unofficial transcript).If a transcript is not available, a statement from the university registrar confirming the area in which the degree was conferred is required Who's responsible Employee 9. Documents and checks Diploma Translation: Three (3) copies of a certified translation of non-English diploma. Two reputable translation firms are Trustforte Corp or Morningside Evaluations. Who's responsible Employee 10. Documents and checks Degree Evaluation: Three (3) copies of a degree evaluation for degree not earned in the U.S. Trustforte Corp or Morningside Evaluations can provide evaluations of your documents. Who's responsible Employee 11 Documents and checks Unexpired Passport: Three (3) copies of passport ID page valid for 6 months beyond prospective travel date to the U.S. Who's responsible Employee 12. Documents and checks Visa: Three copies of most recent visa stamp, if the applicant has been to the U.S. before Who's responsible Employee 13. Documents and checks I-94 if currently in the U.S. Three (3) copies of I-94 arrival record Who's responsible Employee 14. Documents and checks DS-2019 forms: If now or previously in the U.S. in J-1/J-2, all previously issued DS-2019 forms and visa stamps from Columbia and any prior institutions. If subject to the two-year home residency requirement, provide the waiver granted by USCIS is required. Who's responsible Employee 15. Documents and checks I-20 and EAD cards: If currently in the U.S. in F-1 status, all previously issued I-20 forms and EAD cards. Who's responsible Employee 16. Documents and checks I-797 approval notices: If now or previously in the U.S. in H-1B or O-1 status, all I-797 approval notices that have been issued. Who's responsible Employee 17. Documents and checks Three (3) most recent pay statements if currently employed in the U.S. USCIS requires evidence of the maintenance of H-1B status and proof of employment until the day the Columbia H-1B petition is filed. Who's responsible Employee 18. Documents and checks If accompanied by spouse/child dependents: A completed USCIS Form I-539 must be included if they will apply for a change of status to H-4 (the dependent status of H-1B) or an extension of H-4 status. Note that the name of the applicant in Part 1 of the I-539 is that of the "primary" dependent, and the dependent signs the I-539 form, not the H-1B. Access the I-539 instructions here. In addition, each dependent must also complete an I-538A. Also include a copy of each dependent's: I-94 arrival record visa stamp and passport ID pages showing identity and expiration date documents related to their status (e.g. I-20 for F-2, DS-2019 for J-2, I-797 approval for H-4) a marriage certificate (spouse); birth certificate (child) If the dependents are outside the U.S., the I-539 is not required. The dependent will apply for an H-4 visa abroad after the H-1B has been approved. Who's responsible Employee CUIMC Departments USCIS requires that the petition include hard copies of the supporting documents. Therefore, the department must send 2 sets of the following documents to ISSO-CUIMC. Hard copies may be delivered to the CUIMC Mailroom. If this is not possible, please contact us for an alternative arrangement. 1. Document / Information Letter of support. Use our Letter of Support samples as a guide. Print on letterhead and upload to Compass. Officer of Research / Clinical Research Coordinator/Staff Associate / Computer Position / Support Staff Union Position / Physician/Clinician Position 2 Document / Information If the employee will have clinical responsibilities, provide evidence of passing all 3 parts of the USMLE exams, ECFMG certificate and NYS medical license. 3. Document / Information The department must pay all required fees for the H-1B petition. When processing your check request in ARC the Payee should be "U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security” USCIS Service Center, 38 River Road, Essex Junction, VT 05479-0001. Use only "hold for pick-up." DO NOT MAIL THE CHECK DIRECTLY TO VERMONT. The check(s) must be enclosed with the petition sent by the ISSO-CUIMC. Per Controller’s Office COVID 19 contingency plan, when completing check request please select “CUIMC.” This will result in the check(s) being sent interoffice to the Black Building Mailroom address (Room 1-420). Please pick up checks from the CUIMC Mailroom and include them in the 2 sets of H-1B supporting documents. The address is intended for your reference only. All fees must be paid on separate checks. The address is intended for your reference only. All fees must be on separate checks. $460 I-129 petition. $500 Fraud Prevention and Detection Fee (for new H-1B employment at Columbia only) $370 I-539 change of status/extension of stay application for dependents applying for H-4 status. (Department is not required to pay dependent fees.) $2,500 Premium Processing fee (effective Oct. 19, 2020). Optional fee to expedite the USCIS adjudication processing time to 15 calendar days rather than 6 months or more for regular processing. 4. Document / Information Employee's CV 5. Document / Information Highest diploma earned in the original language and the transcript (may be unofficial transcript). If a transcript is not available, a statement from the university registrar confirming the area in which the degree was conferred is required. 6, Document / Information Certified translation (if diploma is not in English). Two reputable firms to contact for translations are Trustforte Corp or Morningside Evaluations. 7. Document / Information Degree evaluation (if degree was not earned in the U.S.). Educassess.com (Connie Wilson), Trustforte Corp or Morningside Evaluations can provide evaluations. 8. Document / Information Unexpired passport ID page. 9. Document / Information I-94 arrival record, if currently in the U.S. 10. Document / Information If now or previously in the U.S. in J-1/J-2 status, all previously issued DS-2019 forms from Columbia and any prior institutions. Do NOT include the "instructions to students" information page of each DS-2019. If applicant was subject to the two year home residency requirement, the Approval Notice of the I-612 Waiver granted by USCIS must be submitted. 11. Document / Information If now in the U.S. in F-1 status, copies of all previously issued I-20 forms and EAD cards. Do not include the "instructions to students" information page of each I-20. If on OPT/STEM OPT, evidence of continuous employment must be shown. Provide a W2 for every year employed as well as all pay stubs for the current year since no W2 is yet available. 12. Document / Information If now or previously in the U.S. in H-1B or O-1 status, all I-797 approval notices (page 1 only) that have been issued. 13. Document / Information If currently in the U.S. in J-1 Scholar or H-1B status, USCIS requires evidence of continued employment until the day the Columbia H-1B petition is filed. Provide three of the most recent pay stubs. 14. Document / Information If H-1B applicant has dependents, copy of I-539 (for primary dependent applicant, usually spouse) and I-539A (child/children), if applicable. Here are I-539 instructions and I-539A instructions, if needed. In addition, all dependent supporting documents: marriage certificate for spouse, birth certificate for child/children with English translation; passport ID page; evidence of current immigration status, e.g. I-797 Approval Notice, I-20 Forms, etc. If ever previously in J-1 or J-2 status, copy of DS-2019(s) [page 1 only]. Deliver the complete application to ISSO and wait for USCIS approval. If you need to make an alternative arrangement, contact the ISSO scholar adviser with whom you're working at ISSO Morningside or ISSO-CUIMC. Expand all Collapse all Morningside/Manhattanville Departments Remember to include the checklist on top. Our office is located in the Nash Building at 3280 Broadway (between 132-133rd St.) in Suite 510 on the 5th floor. Document drop-off hours are 9am - 5pm weekdays. Check our Contact Us page for any scheduled office closings. Wait for Approval Notice We will file the H-1B petition with USCIS and will inform you when the approval notice is ready to be picked up by your department. The envelope will also contain copies of petition documents for your employee. CUIMC Departments While we are working in a hybrid model, mail or drop off documents to the CUIMC Mailroom, Black Building, 1st Floor, Room 1-420. Please address the package to ISSO-CUIMC, 650 W. 168th St, Box 57B, New York, NY 10032. Wait for Approval Notice. ISSO-CUIMC will file the H-1B petition with USCIS. When adjudicated, we will inform the H-1B beneficiary via email with a copy to the department. The approval notice will be sent via FedEx to the H-1B beneficiary. Alternatively, we may be able to arrange for it to be picked up at our office. Expand all Collapse all During sponsorship, keep the following in mind Notify us of any substantial changes in employment, including: ✓ a new or additional location ✓ change in duties ✓ change in title ✓ change in amount or source of funding ✓ resignation ✓ termination Failure to notify us may result in fines and penalties imposed on the University and the revocation of the petition/visa approval. Extending an H-1B Expand all Collapse all Before You Extend Length of Stay H-1B status is generally limited to six years, with each petition not greater than for 3 years. Typically, the initial petition is for 3 years, with an extension for another 3 years. Contact us at least six months in advance of the 6-year mark to discuss eligibility for an additional extension or alternative options for visa status. Timeline The earliest we may file an extension is six months in advance of the requested start date, unless there has been or will be a change to the H-1B beneficiary’s position from the original H-1B filing, as an amended petition may be filed at any time as needed. We strongly recommend you prepare the application materials as early as possible. An H-1B petition involves processing time by two government agencies, the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). Initiating the extension 6 months before the expiration of the current status ensures timely filing and adjudication of the petition, time for the applicant's visa application at a U.S. consulate (if needed), facilitates international travel, and averts a lot of unnecessary anxiety for both the department and the individual. You may expedite the final step of the petition with an additional Premium Processing fee which guarantees action on a petition within 15 calendar days from the date USCIS receives the petition. How to Extend Departments should follow the same steps above except: Do not include the $500 Fraud Prevention and Detection Fee for an extension of an employee who is currently under Columbia's H-1B sponsorship. Do include the $500 fee if it is the first H-1B petition with Columbia University as the employer. If your applicant is already in H-1B status with another employer but is now going to be sponsored by your department, the petition does require the Fraud Prevention and Detection Fee because it is Columbia's first petition on their behalf. Open the link to your campus below for further information. Expand all Collapse all Morningside Departments Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to initiate an online application for H-1B sponsorship This must be initiated by the department, not the scholar. Contact us if you are a department administrator requesting access to the SSP. Refer to our SSP Department Guide for detailed instructions including an SSP overview. CUIMC Departments PLEASE NOTE: H-1B employee profiles can only be seen by the Departmental User who created the Compass profile. If you are the Departmental User who created the initial profile for the employee and you are now extending, , you have two choices: You can click on Departmental Services Overview and select the employee in the Current Cases/Past Cases list or, You can click on H-1B Employee Extension and search for the employee in the Lookup International Record by inputting their University ID and DOB. If you are not the Departmental User who created the initial profile for the employee you are now requesting an H-1B extension, or if the profile was created by the ISSO-CUIMC based on a paper application previously submitted, you will need to request the University ID from ISSO-CUIMC via email at [email protected] TIP: The University ID is not the UNI, it is an ID generated by Compass. Refer to the CUIMC Department User Guide for the procedure. Related Information Site Visit Guidance H-1B Termination Form Immigration Attorney List PR Presentation (Morningside and Manhattanville) Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close