Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Dependents (Spouse/Children) J-2 Work Permission J-2 Work Permission Spouses of J-1 students or scholars in J-2 status are eligible to apply for work permission. On this page: How to Apply for J-2 Work Permission Once you have your J-2 EAD How to Apply for J-2 Work Permission J Exchange Visitor regulations allow a J-2 dependent to apply to USCIS (Citizenship and Immigration Services) for a work permit. The EAD card (Employment Authorization Document) allows you unrestricted work, full-time or part-time. You must be in the U.S. in J-2 status when you submit the application. The purpose for applying for permission to work cannot be to to support the expenses of the J-1 principal. Rather, the income must be for other reasons such as J-2 career advancement, or for family's recreational and cultural activities. Want to learn more? For an overview of the process and documents, watch our short video below! J-2 Work Permission Video Transcript If you are in J-2 immigration status, it is possible to apply to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services-- USCIS for short-- for an employment authorization document, commonly referred to as an EAD card. The purpose of J-2 work permission is NOT to fund your spouse’s living expenses, but rather to allow you to pursue your own personal or professional interests, as well as cultural opportunities for your family. The processing times at USCIS can be significant and you cannot begin working until you have received your EAD. So let’s get started! First, you must be in the U.S. and in J-2 status at the time you apply for work authorization. You will need to complete two government forms along with seven supporting documents. Don’t worry! The document checklist and other relevant information are all on ISSO’s website. And I can speak from personal experience that when my wife applied for J-2 work permission, she found all the information she needed there for a successful application. The first document is an original Form G-1145, which allows USCIS to notify you when they have received your application. The second document you will need is an original Form I-765 application. With this form, you can also request a U.S. Social Security Number. if you don’t already have one. You will need an SSN in addition to the EAD to begin employment. Next we’ll briefly review your supporting documents. You can refer to all specific instructions on the ISSO website. You will first need copies of all current and previous Forms DS-2019 for both you and your J-1spouse. Be sure that you have signed the bottom of each form. You must also send copies of the passport biographic data pages for you and your J-1 spouse. Both passports must be valid for at least 6 months into the future. The next items are photocopies of your most recent J-1 and J-2 visa pages (If you are from Canada, you will not have these because you are visa exempt). You will also need copies of your and your spouse’s most recent Form I-94 arrival record. USCIS will also need two U.S. passport style photos for you only. The photos cannot be more than 30 days old when you send the application. In addition, you’ll need a brief cover letter that explains why you are applying for permission to work. Check out a sample letter on our website. Last but not least, you must pay a fee to the USCIS. You can pay by personal check, certified bank check or money order. The ISSO does not recommend using a credit card because of reported issues. Check our website for the specific fee amount. Before sending your application to USCIS, double-check that you have everything! USCIS can deny your application if your application is not complete in every way, including missing pages and/or signatures. The ISSO strongly advises using a courier like FedEx or UPS, which will guarantee delivery and provide you with a tracking number. And don’t forget -- check back to the ISSO website for information on what to expect after you send your application. Application Process Mail your Employment Authorization application to USCIS via FedEx or UPS. If you would like to ensure your application and forms are complete, one of our advisors can review your application materials and answer any questions you may have. J-2 Employment Authorization Application Checklist ** Be very careful that your application is complete before you mail it! USCIS can deny your application if it's missing any required documentation without sending you an RFE (Request for Evidence) Read more. Want a printable version? Download our J-2 Employment Authorization Application Checklist. 1. Original Form G-1145 to allow USCIS to notify you when they accept your application (not a copy) 2 Use our sample form (new sample in progress) as a guide to complete your I-765 Application for Employment Authorization. Always download the I-765 from this USCIS link for the current version. USCIS will reject applications with older versions of the I-765. When you’re finished, print and sign with dark blue or black ink. 3. $410 USCIS fee. Pay with personal check from a U.S. checking account, cashier's check from a bank, or money order, payable to the "U.S. Department of Homeland Security." Write "USCIS I-765" in the memo line (use our sample personal check as a guide). We do not recommend using the Credit Card form G-1450 due to reported issues. 4. Copies of Forms DS-2019 (current and all previous) of both you and the J-1 student or scholar. 5. Copy of Passport biographical data for both you and the J-1 student or (valid at least 6 months into the future) 6. Photocopies of your most recent J-1 and J-2 visa pages (Canadians are exempt). If you changed your status to J-1/J-2 in the U.S. and don't have a visa, include your Change of Status approval notice. 7. Copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record and the J-1 student or scholar's I-94 record (click “Get Most Recent I-94” at i94.cbp.dhs.gov) 8. Two U.S. passport style photos using standards from the Department of State website and be aware that [1] photos cannot be more than 30 days old when you send the application and [2] you should write your name on the back of each photo in pencil. [3] You can take your photos at UPS Stores (603 West 115th Street & 42 Tiemann Place), among other places. 9. A brief cover letter to explain why you are applying for permission to work. Here is a Sample Letter you may use as a guide. 10. Photocopy of both sides of any previously issued EAD card(s). (Only if re-applying for J-2 work permission.) Mailing Instructions To avoid mailing problems, send your application by FedEx or UPS to the appropriate USCIS Lockbox facilities. If you list a mailing address on the I-765 in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, or Pennsylvania must send the application to: USCIS, Attn: AOS 2501 S. State Hwy. 121, Business Suite 400 Lewisville, TX 75067 Expand all Collapse all If you use a mailing address in another state Send your application to the Dallas lockbox. If you live in: Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, U.S. Virgin Islands, or West Virginia, USCIS Attn: AOS 2501 S. State Hwy. 121 Business Suite 400 Lewisville, TX 75067 Send your application to the Phoenix lockbox. If you live in: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin, Wyoming, Guam, or the Northern Mariana Islands, USCIS Attn: AOS 1820 E. Skyharbor Circle S Suite 100 Phoenix, AZ 85034 Waiting for your EAD USCIS can take 3 - 5 months or more to process an EAD application. You will receive three documents during this time: Within 2-4 weeks you will receive a form I-797 Notice of Action which is a receipt notice. Use this receipt number to check the status of your application online at uscis.gov Form I-797 Notice of Action. This is your approval notice informing you that your EAD has been approved and will be sent to you separately by the U.S. Postal Service, so check your mail! Employment Authorization Document (EAD card). Be sure to check that all the information is correct and if there are any errors, contact USCIS immediately. Once You Have Your J-2 EAD You cannot work after the EAD card has expired The length of the EAD usually matches the end date on your Form DS-2019 (but will not exceed 4 years). You may be able to extend your EAD Extensions of the EAD are possible, up to the end date of your J-1 spouse’s program on the Form DS-2019. Please note that the extension process also takes an average of 3-5 months, so plan ahead. You cannot work if your spouse discontinues their program If your spouse discontinues his or her program at Columbia or changes to another immigration status, your J-2 status and your work authorization are terminated. Your J-2 status is always dependent on the valid J-1 status of the principal. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close