Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Students OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) On this page Post-Completion OPT Post-Completion OPT Reporting Requirements How to Report During Post-Completion OPT STEM OPT STEM OPT Reporting Requirements How to Report During STEM OPT SEVP Portal The SEVP Portal allows you to access your SEVIS OPT record. You may use the portal to review your employer information, but you are still required to submit OPT reports to the ISSO. ISSO recommends using the SEVP Portal as a viewing tool only. OPT Reporting Now that your OPT has been approved, keep the following things in mind. Expand all Collapse all You are limited to a total of 90 days without employment You begin to count days without employment from the start date on your EAD. It will include any days before the start date of your employment and any days between jobs. Review the types of employment, paid or unpaid, that is allowed on OPT. All OPT employment must be directly related to your field of study If possible, obtain a signed letter from your hiring official, supervisor, or manager stating how your degree is related to the work performed. Obtain proof of employment from all employers Keep a record of all your employment. For each job, maintain evidence of the job title, dates of employment, contact information for your supervisor, and a description of the work. It is useful to have these personal records available in case any questions arise during OPT or in a future employment-based application, such as H-1B. How to Report During Post-Completion OPT Report OPT employment and other changes no later than 10 days after the change. You must report the following: ✓ The start and end date of all your employment. The start date is the date you begin employment, not the date you receive or accept an offer of employment. ✓ Any change of your name or your residence and/or mailing address. If a change of your US address is the only change you need to report, go to the Change of Address page. ✓ The name and address of all your OPT employers ✓ If you decide not to use or continue OPT and depart the U.S. ✓ If you change to another immigration status in the U.S. Log in to Compass for Post-Completion OPT Reports This section is only for Post-Completion OPT. If a change of your US address is the only change you need to report, follow instructions on our Change of Address page. To report during your 24-month STEM OPT extension, scroll down the page to log in to Compass in the STEM Reporting section below. The ISSO does not automatically provide an I-20 after OPT is approved or after OPT employment is reported because it is not a requirement for F-1 status or travel. Some employers may request an updated I-20 for HR (Human Resources) or other purposes. If needed, you may request an updated I-20 that shows your approval and employer information, follow the instructions on our I-20 Reprints page. ISSO Morningside F-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC F-1 Students STEM OPT Reporting Requirements You and your employer have STEM OPT reporting obligations throughout your STEM OPT training period. You must submit a report every 6 months from your STEM EAD start date even if your employment information has remained the same. Expand all Collapse all 1 Report changes within 10 days You need to report any change to your name, address, place of employment or end of employment within 10 days. If a change of your US address is the only change you need to report, follow instructions on our Change of Address page. 2 Submit a STEM OPT report every 6 months You must submit a report every 6 months from your STEM EAD start date even if your employment information has remained the same. Refer to Types of STEM OPT Reports in Step 1 below. 3 You are limited to a total of 150 days without employment The total of 150 days includes any days of unemployment that accrued during your period of Post-Completion OPT 4 All STEM OPT employment must be directly related to your STEM degree Keep a record of all your employment. Maintain evidence — for each job — of the position held, proof of the duration of that position, the job title, contact information for the your supervisor or manager, and a description of the work. If possible, obtain a signed letter from your hiring official, supervisor, or manager stating how your degree is related to the work performed. It is useful to have these personal records available in case any questions arise during OPT or in a future employment-based application, such as H-1B. 5 All STEM OPT employers must be enrolled in E-Verify Check here for information about E-Verify. How to Report During STEM OPT Gather your documents and information Expand all Collapse all Types of STEM OPT Reports 6-Month Report You must submit a report every 6 months from your STEM EAD start date even if your employment information has remained the same. ✓ Confirm personal address and employer information 12-Month Evaluation ✓ Confirm personal address and employer information ✓ Top half of page 5 of form I-983 STEM OPT Training Plan (Evaluation on Student Progress) 18-Month Report ✓ Confirm personal address and employer information New Employer ✓ Bottom half of page 5 of form I-983 STEM OPT Training Plan (Final Evaluation) for employment that is ending Loading... ✓ Pages 1-4 of form I-983 for new employer Additional Employer ✓ Information about additional employer ✓ Pages 1-4 of form I-983 STEM OPT Training Plan for new employer Employment Ended / STEM OPT Ending ✓ Last date of employment ✓ Bottom half of page 5 of form I-983 STEM OPT Training Plan (Final Evaluation) Departed U.S. ✓ Date of departure ✓ Bottom half of page 5 of form I-983 STEM OPT Training Plan (Final Evaluation) New Immigration Status ✓ Effective date of new status ✓ Evidence of new status (e.g. I-94 arrival record with new status; I-797 change of status approved; green card) ✓ Bottom half of page 5 of form I-983 STEM OPT Training Plan (Final Evaluation) Material Changes to I-983 ✓ Employer Identification Number (EIN) ✓ Compensation ✓ Hours per week ✓ Change of employer's name or address ✓ New I-983 Training Plan Pages 1 - 4 Log in to Compass This form is only for reporting while on the 24-month STEM OPT extension. For Post-Completion OPT, log in to Compass here. The ISSO does not automatically provide an I-20 after STEM OPT Extension is approved or after STEM OPT Extension employment is reported because it is not a requirement for F-1 status or travel. Some employers may request an updated I-20 for HR or other purposes. If needed, you may request an updated I-20 that shows your approval and employer information, follow the instructions on our I-20 Reprints page. ISSO Morningside F-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC F-1 Students Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close