Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Students Applying for a Student Visa Applying for a Student Visa Applying for a Student Visa COVID-19 Alert Visa processing may be delayed due to COVID-19. For the latest status of visa processing at your nearest US Consulate, check the Consulate's News & Events. Consulate's News & Events On This Page listl icon Application Process Overview clipboard icon Renewing Your Visa user-times icon Visa Delays and Denials A visa is: an entry document that you must apply for at a consulate outside the United States. You need a valid unexpired student visa to enter the United States. Exceptions Citizens of Canada or Bermuda are not required to obtain an entry visa. You are still required to apply for an I-20/DS-2019. If you have an unexpired student visa, you are not required to apply for a new one. You are still required to apply for an I-20/DS-2019. Application Process Overview Receive Your I-20/DS-2019 and Pay Your SEVIS Fee Receive Your I-20/DS-2019 and Pay Your SEVIS Fee Complete the DS-160 Visa Application Complete the DS-160 Visa Application Schedule Your Visa Interview Schedule Your Visa Interview Prepare Your Documents Prepare Your Documents Attend Your Interview Attend Your Interview Receive and Review Your Entry Visa Receive and Review Your Entry Visa How To Apply Receive Your I-20/DS-2019 and Pay Your SEVIS Fee Follow our instructions on how to apply for an I-20/DS-2019. After receiving your I-20/DS-2019, pay the SEVIS fee. Complete the DS-160 Visa Application You are required to submit the DS-160. Review frequently asked questions about the DS-160. Answer truthfully to the best of your knowledge. The ISSO cannot provide advice on completing the DS-160. Contact your local embassy or consulate with any questions. Helpful Tips U.S. Address or Point of Contact Not sure who to list? Use your school or department address. The phone number is 212-854-1754. Dependents Dependents must submit their own DS-160. Course of Study Use your program name as it appears on your admission letter or your I-20/DS-2019. Intended Length of Stay Use your best estimate on the time you need to complete your program. The response to this question does not determine the length of your visa. Present Work/ Education/ Training Information Select the best option that is true at the time of submitting the application. Person/ Entity Paying for Your Trip List your primary source of funding as it appears on your I-20/DS-2019. Schedule Your Visa Interview Follow the instructions for your embassy or consulate. The earliest you can interview for your visa is 120 days before your start date. It is generally recommended that you apply for a visa in your home country rather than a third country if possible. Each embassy has its own visa processing times. Prepare Your Documents Expand all Collapse all Students Students 1. Passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) 2. DS-160 confirmation page 3. Valid I-20/DS-2019 4. Copy of Columbia admission letter/email 5. SEVIS Fee Receipt 6. Financial documents (issued within the previous 3 months) 7. Any other documents listed on embassy/consulate website Dependents Dependents 1. Passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) 2. DS-160 confirmation page 3. Dependent I-20/DS-2019 (original, not a copy) 4. Copy of student’s I-20/DS-2019 5. Copy of student’s Columbia admission letter/email 6. Financial documents 7. Proof of relationship to student (marriage or birth certificate) 8. Copy of student’s visa page and copy of student’s I-94 Arrival Record (only if the student is already in the U.S. and dependent(s) will follow later) Attend Your Interview Review 10 points to remember when applying for a non-immigrant visa from NAFSA: Association of International Educators, the leading organization committed to international education and exchange. Ties to Your Home Country and Residence Abroad The first point on this helpful list of what to keep in mind when applying for a visa addresses "Ties to Your Home Country and Residence Abroad." U.S. law considers applicants for nonimmigrant visas to be "intending immigrants" which means that the visa applicant intends to stay in the U.S. after the reason for their visit to the U.S. has been completed. A visa applicant has had to show strong ties to their home country to convince the consular officer that reasons to return home are stronger than reasons to remain in the U.S. On December 20, 2021 the Department of State updated its guidance to consular officers advising that they should evaluate the "residence abroad requirement" for student visa applicants differently than for B visitor visas or other short-term visas. It instructs consular officers to look only at a student visa applicant's “present” intent rather than future intent to depart the United States following the conclusion of their visa because a student is "...often single, unemployed, without property, and is at the stage in life of deciding and developing their plans for the future" and would not possess ties of employment and property that would be typical of an older B visitor visa applicant. (The instructions for consular officers are in the Foreign Affairs Manual under 402.5-5(E)(1) (U) Residence Abroad Required.) Receive and Review Your Entry Visa Check the visa in your passport to make sure that all the information on it is correct. Your I-20/DS-2019 should be returned to you. You will need it to enter the U.S. Renewing Your Visa Do I Need to Renew My Visa? If your visa expires while you are maintaining status and in the U.S., nothing happens because it is a travel document only. Please learn more about visa expiration here. However, if you are travelling internationally, you will need an unexpired visa to request entry into the U.S. (with the potential exception when traveling from Canada, Mexico, or certain Adjacent Caribbean Islands). The visa renewal process is similar to the initial F-1 or J-1 student visa application outlined above. You must obtain the visa from a US consulate or embassy abroad, ideally in your home country where you were last successful, and you will need to establish your nonimmigrant intent and ties to your home country. Visa Renewal Documents Required Generally these are the documents you need, but each consulate may require additional application materials so check with the consulate at which you will apply. your passport (valid at least 6 months into the future) most recent I-20/DS-2019 with valid travel signature, and updated proof of funding. a copy of your transcripts and a certificate of enrollment from the Office of the University Registrar, if applying for a visa during your academic program. your EAD card and proof of employment, if you are on OPT or STEM OPT Extension Visa Delays and Denials Visa Delays After your visa interview, you will be notified if administrative processing is necessary. Log in to Compass to report if your visa is delayed. We will track your application, but are unable to resolve individual cases. Most students receive their visa before the start of their program. Visa Denials Log in to Compass to report if your visa is denied. You may reapply and bring additional supporting documents, such as proof of ties to your home country. A support letter from your academic department may be helpful. Log in to Report Delays or Denials Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside Log in with your UNI ISSO-CUIMC Log in with your UNI ISSO Morningside Log in with your PID and PIN (request your PIN here) ISSO-CUIMC Log in with your PID and PIN (request your PIN here) Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close