Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) Do you want your spouse or child(ren) to join you while you attend Columbia? Learn how to obtain a dependent COE (F-2 student form I-20 or J-2 student or scholar form DS-2019) that they will need to apply for a visa. Basic Information about F-2/J-2 Dependents: • A dependent is a spouse, or unmarried child (under age 21) • The status of an F-2/J-2 is completely dependent upon the valid status of the F-1/J-1 • The dependent needs their own SEVIS-generated dependent Certificate of Eligibility (COE) I-20/DS-2019 form with a unique SEVIS ID number Expand all Collapse all Before You Apply Not legally married but in a relationship? Your partner is not eligible to be a visa dependent, but may apply for a B-2 visitor visa to join you under a provision for Cohabitating Partners described in the Foreign Affairs Manual for visa officers. Look for 9 FAM 402.2-4(B)(5). Dependent documents are only for your spouse or children who will be living with you. If they will visit you only for a temporary period of time, they should request a tourist visa directly from the United States Consulate. If you are coming to Columbia as a new student with your spouse or child(ren): you will apply for their COEs at the same time as you apply for your own. Follow the instructions at Applying for an I-20/DS-2019. If you are coming to Columbia as a new J-1 scholar with your spouse or child(ren): be sure to provide your dependents' information to your department when they are requesting a DS-2019 for you. All J-1/J-2 forms will be created at the same time. Is your spouse currently in the U.S. in another status? They will need to either: leave the U.S., obtain an J-2 visa at a U..S. embassy or consulate (unless Canadian), and re-enter the U.S. in J-2 status. Obtaining J-2 status through travel is recommended. apply for a change of status from USCIS (Citizenship and Immigration Services). A change of status application is not recommended because it takes a long time to be processed and maintaining status while the application is pending can be problematic. How to Apply for a Dependent COE (Certificate of Eligibility) If You Are a Student or J-1 Scholar Currently at Columbia Gather your documents and information 1. Dependent(s) Passport ID page 2. Proof of funds. Please review our Dependent(s) Funding document to see how much funding you'll need and what funding types are acceptable. 3. Your most recent I-94 Arrival Record to the U.S. 4. The dependent’s most recent I-94 Arrival Record, if your dependent is currently in the U.S. Log in to Compass with your UNI and password to submit your application Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside F-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC F-1 Students ISSO Morningside J-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC J-1 Students ISSO Morningside J-1 Scholars ISSO-CUIMC J-1 Scholars Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. We will contact you Allow up to 10 business days for us to review and process your application. F-1: If your request is approved, we will email both your digital F-1 Form I-20 and your dependent’s F-2 Form I-20 for you to print with additional instructions. J-1: We will notify you by email when your J-1 DS-2019 and your dependent’s J-2 DS-2019 is ready to be shipped. Per Department of State J Regulations, digital DS-2019 forms are not permitted to be emailed. Send the I-20/DS-2019 to your spouse They will need the COE to apply for an F-2 or J-2 visa application at a U.S. consulate and to enter the U.S. **Note that visa dependents do not pay a SEVIS fee. Related Information Applying for a Visa (Students) Applying for a Visa (Scholars) Resources for Dependents Maintaining Status for Dependents Employment Overview for Dependents Inviting Family and Friends to Visit Foreign Affairs Manual Who Pays the SEVIS Fee? Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close