Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Students Travel During F-1 OPT Travel During F-1 OPT In this section, we’ll cover the things you need to be aware of and the documents you need to carry if you’re planning to travel abroad after you have applied for post-completion OPT, including STEM OPT extension and the Cap-Gap extension. Need to Know Post-Completion OPT is an extension of your F-1 status. If you return to the U.S. in another status, such as tourist, it will invalidate your F-1 status and your OPT authorization. Documents Needed to Return to the U.S. Expand all Collapse all Before the Program End Date on Your I-20 Since you are currently enrolled and will return to the U.S. before the program end date on your I-20, your re-entry will be based on your return as a current student. Your OPT application has no impact on your travel, regardless of whether it’s pending or approved. Check to see which documents you need as an F-1 student. After the Program End Date on Your I-20 With a Pending OPT Application We recommend that you do not travel internationally before your OPT is approved and you have your EAD card. If your OPT application is returned, rejected, or denied while you are abroad, you will not be able to re-enter the US in F-1 status to re-apply for OPT. If you need to return to the U.S. to pack up and leave, it may be possible to re-enter the US in another visa category (ESTA or tourist visa, for example) to prepare for departure. Note that even if you have a friend checking your mail, you may have difficulty responding to any special request(s) from USCIS, such as a request for further information. If your EAD card is received in the U.S. before your return, we do not recommend having someone send the card to you. Instead, your friend should send you a scanned copy via email of the front and back of the EAD card. If you still decide to travel despite these risks, we recommend entry through JFK or Newark airport, and you will need the following items to request re-entry to the U.S. in F-1 status: ✓ Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. ✓ Unexpired passport ✓ Unexpired F-1 visa (except for Canadians who are exempt from visa requirement) ✓ I-20 with OPT recommendation and an unexpired travel signature (signature valid for six months when on OPT). Learn how to get a travel signature, if needed. ✓ I-797 USCIS receipt notice of your OPT application ✓ If you have a job offer or interview appointments set up, bring a job offer letter or communication about interviews with you After the Program End Date With an Approved OPT Application With an approved OPT application and your EAD card, you may travel internationally, and request entry into the U.S in F-1 status when you return, both before or after the start date on your EAD card. You will need the following items with you when you return: ✓ Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. ✓ Unexpired passport ✓ Unexpired F-1 visa (except for Canadians who are exempt from the visa requirement) ✓ I-20 with OPT recommendation and an unexpired travel signature (signature valid for six months when on OPT). Learn how to get a travel signature, if needed. ✓ Unexpired EAD card ( EAD has notation "not valid for reentry" which means the card on its own is not sufficient without the other documents listed here). ✓ Proof of employment that you will begin or resume upon return from your trip, such as: Job offer letter Work contract Proof of payment or letter from employer If no proof of employment, bring evidence of your job search With a Pending STEM OPT Extension Application Before Your OPT EAD Card Expires If you are returning to the U.S. while your OPT EAD is still valid, you will need the following items. ✓ Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. ✓ Unexpired passport ✓ Unexpired F-1 visa (except for Canadians) ✓ I-20 with STEM OPT recommendation and an unexpired travel signature (signature is valid for six months when on OPT). Learn how to get a travel signature, if needed. ✓ Unexpired EAD. (EAD has notation "not valid for reentry" which means the card on its own is not sufficient without the other documents listed here) ✓ Proof of employment that you will resume upon return from your trip, such as Job offer letter Work contract Proof of payment (pay stubs) or letter from employer regarding continued employment With a Pending STEM OPT Application After Your OPT EAD Card Expires If your current EAD has expired: Do Not Travel while your STEM OPT extension is pending. You will not be able to return in F-1 status to resume employment. With an Approved STEM OPT Extension With an Approved STEM OPT Extension ✓ Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. ✓ Unexpired passport ✓ Unexpired F-1 visa (except for Canadians) ✓ I-20 with STEM OPT recommendation and an unexpired travel signature (signature is valid for six months when on OPT). Learn how to get a travel signature, if needed. ✓ Unexpired EAD for STEM OPT extension (EAD has notation "not valid for reentry" which means the card on its own is not sufficient without the other documents listed here) ✓ Proof of employment that you will resume upon return from your trip, such as Job offer letter Work contract Proof of payment (pay stub, automatic deposit of salary) or letter from employer During a Cap-Gap Extension Period It may be possible to travel during a Cap-Gap extension of OPT when certain conditions are met. Do not leave the US while the H-1B change of status is pending! It will nullify the change of status and make you ineligible for the cap gap extension. Generally, you may travel abroad and return to the US in F-1 status during a Cap-Gap period if: ✓ You have proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. ✓ You have other documents required for F-1 readmission: Unexpired passport, valid at least six months beyond the date of re-entering the U.S. unexpired F-1 visa . Do not travel during the cap-gap period if your F-1 visa is expired! It would be highly problematic to apply for a new F-1 with an approved H-1B (Canadians are exempt from the visa requirement) Cap-gap I-20 reflecting OPT extension through September 30 with an unexpired travel signature (signature is valid for six months when on OPT).Learn how to get a travel signature, if needed. ✓ Your change of status to H-1B has been approved ✓ You return in F-1 status before your H-1B start date ✓ EAD (EAD has notation "not valid for reentry" which means the card on its own is not sufficient without the other documents listed here). ✓ I-797 Approval Notice of the H-1B change of status ✓ Proof of employment that you will resume upon return from your trip, such as Job offer letter Work contract Proof of payment (pay stubs) or letter from employer regarding continued employment We recommend you travel with a printed copy of this USCIS page which addresses F-1 travel during a Cap-Gap extension. Learn more! Watch our short overview of travel on OPT from our OPT playlist: ISSO F-1 Post-Completion OPT, Part 9: Travel Abroad on OPT Related Information Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints F-1 Status during the H-1B Cap-Gap Government FAQs on F-1 Re-entry EAD (Employment Authorization Document) CUIT Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Travelers to the U.S. Require Proof of Vaccination Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close