Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Getting Started For Students Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 On this page Eligibility Transfer Date How to Apply for a Transfer I-20 Visa Information for Transfer Students COVID-19 FAQs Find answers to frequently asked immigration-related questions. Summer Session Only You do not need to transfer your SEVIS record to study at Columbia during your summer vacation if you will return to your current school in the fall. Eligibility You are eligible to transfer your SEVIS record if you have been admitted to a full-time program at Columbia, and: ✓ You are currently in valid F-1 student status as an enrolled student at another school, or are within your 60-day grace period following the completion of your program ✓ Your program at Columbia will begin no more than five months after your current completion date OR ✓ You are currently in F-1 status on OPT, or within your 60-day grace period following the completion of your OPT ✓ Your program at Columbia will begin no more than five months after your employment end date Note: Statistics Hybrid Program students cannot transfer in for fall term because they are not in residence until the spring term. Transfer Date ✓ You will receive our SEVIS School Code when submitting the online application. Our transfer form is electronic, and will be emailed to your previous school. ✓ Contact your current international student adviser to establish the date on which they will transfer your electronic SEVIS record to Columbia. We cannot process an I-20 for you until your record is transferred to us. ✓ If you’re returning from a trip abroad after your transfer date, you will need to have Columbia’s I-20 with you ✓ If you're currently on OPT, your transfer date must be after your last day of employment. You cannot continue working on OPT after your transfer date. ✓ For Statistics Hybrid Students Only: The earliest date to transfer for Spring 2022 is September 21, 2021 How to Apply for a Transfer I-20 Prepare your documents The deadline to submit a complete application is no more than 15 days after your program begins. Expand all Collapse all Supporting Documents Checklist 1. A copy of admission letter/email 2. The identification page of your passport 3. Financial Certification Form (Refer to the Estimated Expenses for your program.) 4. Evidence of Financial Support (Refer to the Funding Documents Checklist) 5. Passport identification page of each dependent, if applicable 6. If you're currently in the U.S., a copy of your I-94 arrival record 7. A copy of all previous I-20s / DS-2019s 8. I-20 Processing Fee: Have a credit card available to pay the $109 fee. The processing fee is required and cannot be waived. 9. You will receive our SEVIS School Code when submitting the online application. Our transfer form is electronic, and will be emailed to your previous school. Log in to Compass to apply There are two ways to log in to Compass: with a PID or with a UNI. Apply for your I-20 with your PID Your PID is the 9-digit number beginning with “C” you will receive from your admissions office or department (e.g. C123456789). If you don't have a PID, contact your admissions office. Use your PID to request a Limited Services PIN. Receive your Limited Services PIN at the e-mail address you used to apply to Columbia. Log in to Compass using your PID, Date of Birth and Limited Services PIN by clicking the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside Apply Here with Your PID ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) Apply Here with Your PID Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Expand all Collapse all PID Login Issues I did not receive my Limited Services PIN If you do not receive your Limited Services PIN within a few minutes, please check your SPAM folder. If you still do not receive it, please email the correct ISSO office only and be sure to include your PID and your preferred email address in the body of the email. In the subject line write “Limited Services PIN”: ISSO Morningside ISSO Medical Center (CUIMC) [email protected] only [email protected] only Don't know your Campus? Please check our Campus school list. I received an error message when requesting my Limited Services PIN If you were recently accepted to Columbia, your record may not be in our system. Make sure you have accepted your offer of admission and paid your deposit, if applicable. If you cannot access the system after 10 business days, please contact the ISSO office for your campus only: ISSO Morningside [email protected] only ISSO Medical Center (CUIMC) [email protected] only Don't know your Campus? Please check our Campus school list. Apply for your I-20 with your UNI (Morningside students only) Your UNI is assigned to you by your school and consists of your initials plus a number, e.g. AB1234, and is part of your Columbia email address. Learn more about your UNI on the Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) website. Morningside Students only Apply Here with your UNI Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Expand all Collapse all UNI Login Issues Don't know your UNI? Haven't activated your UNI? Received an error message when you logged in? Don't worry! You can follow the steps above (With a PID) to login to Compass without a UNI. We will review your application We will email you if we need additional information. When your SEVIS record has been transferred and your application is complete, we will process your transfer I-20 within 2 weeks. Receive your I-20 Please review the information on your I-20 for accuracy when it arrives. Expand all Collapse all Visa Information for Transfer Students Do I need a new F-1 visa? If you have an unexpired visa in your passport, you do not need to apply for a new visa. You may use the visa you have, even though the previous school's name is on it. If you have an expired visa and are traveling outside of the U.S., you will need to apply for a new visa, but you are not required to pay the SEVIS fee again. Can I travel outside the U.S.? If you plan to travel abroad after your transfer date, you must return to the U.S. with: I-20 issued by Columbia University Unexpired visa Unexpired passport You can return to the U.S. with your Columbia I-20 at any time before your program begins. Can I remain in the U.S.? Transfer students are not required to depart the U.S. in between programs. You may remain in the U.S. even if your F-1 visa is expired as long as you have applied for your Columbia I-20. For more information about traveling, visit Documents Needed to Travel page. Questions? If you have questions not addressed on this page, email the ISSO office for your campus. ISSO Morningside ISSO Medical Center (CUIMC) [email protected] [email protected] Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Related Information Maintaining Your Status for Students Documents Needed to Travel (Students) J-1 Student Transfer If you are currently a Columbia student and planning to continue your studies at another US school, please see Transferring Out of Columbia (F-1). Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close