Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Getting Started For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Entering the U.S. (Scholars) Entering the U.S. (Scholars) Entering the U.S. (Scholars) Learn about the process of entering the U.S. for the first time as a Columbia student. For travel during your time at Columbia, visit our Documents Needed to Travel page. On This Page Prepare for Departure Enter through the U.S. Port of Entry Get to Your Destination from the Airport Learn about U.S. Social Customs and Etiquettes Related Information Prepare for Departure Be aware of the earliest date you may enter the U.S. J-1 Scholar 30 days before the program start date in item 3 on your DS-2019 H1-B/O-1 Employee 10 days before the start date on the I-797 approval notice of your petition TN Employee 10 days in advance of the job start date E-3 Employee 10 days before the start date on the I-797 approval notice of your petition Organize your documents Have these documents in your hand (and not packed in a suitcase) for the officer to review: Expand all Collapse all J-1 Scholar ✔︎ Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. ✔︎ Unexpired Passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) ✔︎ Valid Visa (Canadians are exempt from visa requirement) ✔︎ DS-2019 ✔︎ SEVIS fee receipt ✔︎ Letter of Offer (if employed by Columbia) ✔︎ Financial documentation ✔︎ Designation Letter (if you are a visiting scholar) H1-B/O-1 Employee ✔︎ Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. ✔︎ Unexpired Passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) ✔︎ Valid Visa (Canadians are exempt from visa requirement) ✔︎ Original Form I-797 (H-1B/O-1 Approval Notice from the USCIS) ✔︎ Letter of Offer ✔︎ Copy of I-129 H-1B/O-1 Petition TN Employee ✔︎ Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. ✔︎ Unexpired Passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) ✔︎ Valid Visa (Mexican citizens require entry visa; Canadians are exempt from visa requirement) ✔︎ Job Offer Letter E-3 Employee ✔︎ Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. ✔︎ Unexpired Passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) ✔︎ Valid visa ✔︎ Job offer letter ✔︎ Copy of LCA (Labor Condition Application) ✔︎ I-797 approval notice (if an E-3 petition was filed in the U.S.) Additional things to pack into your carry-on Currency U.S. Currency and credit cards from home (if necessary). Cash high recommended! Change of clothing and toiletry items In case of unexpected delays or lost baggage. Medications Prescriptions must be obtained from a doctor and medication is dispensed by a pharmacist. Eyeglasses and/or contact lenses Quite expensive and not fully covered by medical insurance. International Driving Permit (Optional) With home-country driver's license. Plan your first day/night Remember to plan your transportation, destination, and how you will communicate (as needed). Plan how your phone (service, data, etc.) works internationally. Not all airports have reliable and free Wi-Fi. If someone is picking you up, plan accordingly because the U.S. Customs line can take more than an hour. Enter through the U.S. Port of Entry Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is part of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and is the government agency that controls admission to the United States. Your visa and other immigration documents are evidence of your eligibility to apply for admission in a particular visa status at a U.S. Port of Entry. The CBP officer makes the final decision on your admissibility. Expand all Collapse all What to expect 1 Get in the correct line There will be two lines for Customs and Immigration—one for U.S. citizens and the other for international visitors. 2 Meet the immigration officer The immigration officer will review your documents and ask you a few questions about the purpose of your travel to the U.S. If all is in order, the officer will admit you to the U.S. in the immigration classification and stamp your passport with: date and place of arrival immigration status expiration of this status 3 Check carefully that the stamp is correct for your status J-1 Scholar: Stamp should be for J-1 for “D/S” which reflects Duration of Status (until the end of the program on your DS-2019) H-1B Employee: stamp for admission in H-1B status with a specific date which is the expiration of the approved petition TN Employee: stamp for admission in TN status with a specific date up to 3 years from the date of entry. CBP also creates an electronic record of your arrival (I-94 Arrival/Departure Record). Check it a day or two later to make sure it is correct. 4 Gather your things Make sure you have all your papers and hand luggage with you before you leave the inspection area. Remember to pick up your luggage at the designated carousel for your flight and exit the airport passing through Customs. Get to Your Destination from the Airport These airport websites have useful information about different types of transportation available to get to your destination. Click on the tab "Plan Your Airport Travel" on the websites of each of the three airports serving NYC (below) to get information about taxis, vans, and public transportation: John F. Kennedy Airport (JFK) Newark Airport LaGuardia Airport Expand all Collapse all Additional tips By Taxi Use only an official yellow or green cab from the taxi line with a dispatcher outside arrivals. The dispatcher will give you a paper that identifies the taxi you're riding in and the rates. Taxis between JFK and Manhattan have a flat fare, rather than a metered fare, excluding tolls and tips. You can pay with a credit card or cash. It is customary to tip 10 - 20% on top of the fare. In addition, you will be charged for the toll of the bridge or tunnel used. Do not accept offers of rides from anyone else! They are unregulated and have been known to overcharge new arrivals. Do not let anyone take your luggage. Do not engage in conversations, just say “no thanks” and leave. Some of these scammers will try to roll away your suitcase so always be mindful of your belongings! By Car Services (Uber, Lyft, etc.) If you use services such as Uber, Lyft, etc., the price may be lower than a regular taxi but the wait is usually as long (expect at least 30 mins to secure a ride). There are special areas designated for ride services and cabs, so be sure to go outside and wait by the designated curbside area. Learn about U.S. Social Customs and Etiquettes There are many differences between the U.S. and other countries. There are a lot of resources online you can read about. See the Edupass guide to US social customs and cultural differences. Keep in mind that the U.S. is so large that it is hard to generalize because of variations across regions. Expand all Collapse all Read some observations from our community Tipping. It is customary to tip 15-20% of your total in restaurants where you are seated and served at a table. The US uses the imperial system for measurement and Fahrenheit for temperature. The prices listed usually don’t include sales tax. Dates are written as “Month, Day, Year” and not “Day, Month, Year” or “Year, Month, Day.” e.g. 02/01/2022 is February 1st, not January 2nd. Addresses start with building numbers instead of street names. e.g. 524 Riverside Dr. The US uses a twelve-hour clock system with AM/PM instead 24-hour clock system, which is called "military time" here. (e.g., 3:00 PM rather than 15:00) Sometimes, “How are you?” can be more of a statement in passing rather than a question. Often food portions are larger than in other countries. The legal drinking age is 21 and in New York, you can’t drink in public spaces. Related Information Travelers to the U.S. Require Proof of Vaccination Apply for a Visa (Scholars) Reporting Your Arrival (Scholars) Your First Weeks (Scholars) Documents Needed to Travel (Scholars) Resources for Scholars John F. Kennedy Airport (JFK) Newark Airport (EWR) LaGuardia Airport (LGA) I-94 Expiration Dates Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close