Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Students F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Curricular Practical Training is authorization for off-campus employment that is an integral part of the established curriculum of your degree program. CPT is not available to all F-1 students because it is dependent on the academic requirements of your program. On this Page list-ul icon Degree Program Criteria check-square icon F-1 Student Eligibility clock icon Before You Apply listl icon How to Apply calendar icon After you have the CPT I-20 question-circle icon FAQs paste icon Related Content and Resources Degree Program Criteria Per F-1 regulations, your program must meet one of the following criteria: 1. The internship or practicum is a degree requirement for all students in the program. 2. The internship is required for an elective course that counts toward fulfilling your degree requirements. The elective course must be listed in the school's bulletin and designed specifically for a practical training experience. It must earn credit commensurate with other elective courses that count toward the degree. F-1 Student Eligibility You must: ✓ be in active F-1 status for one academic year in the U.S. (two consecutive full-time terms) to be eligible for elective CPT. The terms “active” and “initial” refer to your status in the SEVIS database, not to your enrollment in an academic program. Your SEVIS record is in “initial” status until you enter the U.S. and report your arrival to the ISSO, after which your SEVIS record is updated to "active". You must arrive in the U.S. within 30 days from the start of classes during your first semester of entry in order for that term to count toward practical training eligibility. Time spent in English language preparation does not count. **Students in programs with required internships may have different criteria. ✓ be a degree candidate ✓ have an appropriate job offer for a U.S.-based employer Before You Apply CPT can be used only during the academic program. Expand all Collapse all CPT Hours for Elective Courses Part-Time is 20 hours or fewer per week. You are limited to part-time hours during the fall and/or spring term. You are also limited to part-time during the summer if: your program has a required summer term OR summer is your final term Full-Time is more than 20 hours per week. You may be full-time during the summer vacation period only if you will be continuing in the fall. Review the table below for a visual: Part-time During Summer Vacation ✓ Yes. It is limited to part-time if your program has a required summer term OR summer is your final term. During Fall /Spring Semester ✓ Yes Full-time During Summer Vacation ✓ Yes, but only if you will be continuing in the Fall. During Fall /Spring Semester No CPT Dates CPT is always authorized for dates that are within the semester, whether it is granted for an internship or practicum degree requirement or for an elective internship or practicum course. CPT Location You are expected to be attending in-person classes during the required terms in the academic year. If your employer is located elsewhere in the U.S., you may engage in CPT only if it is remote. When to Submit an Application Apply at least 10 business days before your requested start date. CPT cannot be authorized retroactively, so plan ahead! Effect of CPT on OPT duration Time authorized for CPT is not deducted from the amount of OPT you are allowed after graduation. If, however you have been authorized for 12 months or more of full-time CPT, you are no longer eligible for OPT. This is a rare occurrence at Columbia because most students are not eligible for full-time CPT for 12 months. Changing Employers or Extending CPT Time If eligible, you will need to submit a new application if you change employers or need to extend the time. If there are any changes to your already approved CPT request, indicate the changes in your new application. (e.g. providing a new end date if leaving a position early.) Want to learn more? Watch this quick overview of CPT. We’ll also show you how to use this webpage and address our most frequently asked questions. CPT Overview and Website Navigator How to Apply Get a Brief Letter Gather Your Documents and Information Submit Your Application We Will Contact You Review, Sign and Date Your New I-20 Application Process Get a Brief Letter From Your CPT Employer That Includes These Six Requirements Your CPT application requires a letter from your U.S. based CPT employer that must include all six of the following elements required by F-1 regulations. A typical offer letter will not suffice. Your CPT request will be denied if your letter is incomplete, and you will have to reapply. The CPT Employer letter must: be on official company letterhead have a specific start date and a specific end date include the U.S. address of your employer. The letter should indicate if you are working remotely from your NY-area home. include the number of hours per week you will work include a detailed description or list of position duties be signed and dated by your employer Review our sample letter for help, but do not submit it! Back to Application Process Gather Your Documents and Information ✓ Register for the course (if the internship is tied to a specific course) ✓ CPT Employer Letter. This must include all 6 requirements as detailed in step 1 above or your application will be denied ✓ The CPT Request Form must be completed by you and your department ✓ Your "Most Recent I-94" arrival record. You will need to upload your most recent I-94. Do NOT upload "Your Travel History". Back to Application Process Use Compass to Submit Your Application Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside ISSO-CUIMC F-1 Students F-1 Students Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Back to Application Process We Will Contact You Allow up to 10 business days for us to review and process your application. If your request is approved, we will email your new digital Form I-20 with additional instructions. Back to Application Process Review, Sign and Date Your New I-20 Your CPT authorization is on page 2. Use this I-20 for travel. The travel signature on page 2 is valid for 12 months or until your program end date, whichever is earlier. Keep all previously issued I-20s. You may need them in the future. Back to Application Process After You Have Your CPT I-20 Expand all Collapse all Apply for a Social Security Number (if you don’t have one). You are now eligible to apply for an SSN up to 30 days before your CPT employment start date. Find the application process here. Start your employment on or after your CPT start date. You can't start employment before the CPT start date printed on your I-20. FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) Expand all Collapse all My program isn't eligible for CPT. How do I get work permission for an internship? You may be eligible to apply for Optional Practical Training. I don’t have time to receive OPT in time for my job offer. Can I apply for CPT instead? Unfortunately no. You can apply for CPT only if your academic program meets the criteria. Can I work and use CPT during a leave of absence? No, you cannot work during a leave of absence. You need to be a currently registered student making normal progress toward your degree to engage in CPT. Related Information Application for a Social Security Number Optional Practical Training During Your Program Unpaid Internships and Volunteering I-9 Handbook for Employers Social Security Information for Employers Exemption from Social Security tax Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close