Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Documents Needed to Travel (Scholar) Documents Needed to Travel (Scholar) Traveling soon? Learn what documents you will need to bring and show immigration when you return. Expand all Collapse all Before You Travel Review Columbia's Global Travel Website This GlobalTravel website centralizes information and tools for all members of the Columbia community whose study, research, or teaching involves international travel. Follow CUIT Data Security Guidelines for International Travel CUIT (Technology Information) has compiled important considerations for the Columbia University community for protecting data security when you travel. Are you entering the U.S. for the first time? If you are entering the U.S. for the first time as a Columbia scholar, visit our Entering the U.S. page for scholars. Are you traveling to a country other than your home? If you're traveling to a country other than your home, check the website of your destination's NY-based consulate or embassy to learn about their visa requirements for visitors. Documents Needed to Re-Enter the U.S. Expand all Collapse all J-1 Scholar Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. Unexpired passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) Unexpired visa (Canadians are exempt from visa requirement) Unexpired DS-2019 with travel signature (valid for 12 months) SEVIS Fee Receipt Evidence of continued employment (if you are working for Columbia) Visiting Scholar Designation letter (if you are a Visiting Scholar) H-1B / O-1 Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. Unexpired passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) Unexpired visa (Canadians are exempt from visa requirement) Evidence of continued employment Copy of Form I-797 Approval Notice for H-1B/O-1 status Copy of Columbia's I-129 Petition H-1B/O-1 status Sponsor letter from academic department TN Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. Unexpired passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) Unexpired visa (Canadians are exempt from visa requirement. Mexican TNs do need a visa) Evidence of continued employment Department letter offering TN employment including length of continued employment. TNs may be admitted for 3 years Educational credentials required for the TN profession E-3 Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. Unexpired passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) Unexpired visa LCA (Labor Condition Application) Sponsor letter from hiring department Copy of E-3 I-797 Approval Notice, Copy of E-3 I-129 Petition, if a petition was filed on your behalf with USCIS. Not common Are you traveling to Canada, Mexico, or the Caribbean Islands? Learn about certain provisions that allow return from these countries with an expired visa. Do you need a new visa or is your visa expired? Read our page on how to get a new visa. Dependents of Scholars: Documents needed to re-enter the U.S. Look at the dropdown menus below to see what documents your dependent(s) must have in order to re-enter the U.S. Each visa dependent (spouse and children) must carry his/her original documents. Expand all Collapse all J-2 Scholar Dependent Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. Dependent's unexpired passport Dependent's unexpired J-2 visa Unexpired J-2 DS-2019 with a valid travel signature If dependent is traveling without principal: Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Copy of principal's J-1 visa Copy of principal's most recent I-94 arrival/departure record as evidence of J-1 status in the U.S. Copy of principal's DS-2019 H-4 / O-3 / E-3 Dependent Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. Dependent's unexpired passport Dependent's unexpired visa (H-4 / O-3 / E-3 If dependent is traveling without principal: Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. Copy of principal's H-1 / O-1/ E-3 visa Copy of principal's most recent I-94 arrival/departure record as evidence of status in the U.S. Copy of Form I-797 Approval Notice for H-1 and O-1. E-3s will have an I-797 only if an E-3 petition was filed, which is not common. Documents Recommended for Travel Within the U.S. Domestic travel includes travel to any of the 50 states or travel to the U.S. territories (Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa). When traveling within the U.S. (even if you’re not crossing any borders or traveling by air), we recommend that you travel with your passport and other immigration status-related documents. Expand all Collapse all Travel FAQs I'm a J-1 scholar and received an I-515 at the airport. What does this mean? If a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officer determines your documentation is incomplete, you may be issued a Form I-515A and a date-specific I-94 card for admission in J-1 status. This will grant you only 30 days instead of the usual duration of status (D/S). To have your legal status extended: 1. Follow the instructions on what to do if you get an I-515. 2. Submit the required documents before the expiration date of the I-94 card. 3. Visit us as soon as possible with an I-515. We will assist you with the documentation you need. I experienced delays when entering the U.S. at the port of entry. What should I do? Sometimes scholars are sent to secondary inspection so that a port of entry officer can verify your status. If you are sent to secondary inspection on multiple occasions, it may be helpful to file a report through DHS Trip. I don’t have an entry visa for my current status because I changed status inside the U.S. Is this a problem when my dependents want to travel? Yes, if you don’t have an entry visa for you current status, your dependents won't be able to obtain a dependent visa. You must obtain a visa for your current status first. Related Information Travelers to the U.S. Require Proof of Vaccination Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints Returning from Canada and Mexico What to Do if You Get an I-515 What is an I-515? Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close