Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Students Extending to Begin a New Program (F & J Students) Extending to Begin a New Program (F & J Students) If you are moving from one program to another at Columbia University, you must apply for a new Certificate of Eligibility (COE) for the new program. Obtaining a new I-20 (F-1) or DS-2019 (J-1) will update your SEVIS record and extend your F or J "duration of status", which is the time you are permitted to stay in the United States as a student. On this page: Eligibility When to Apply How to Apply Travel While You Are In Between Programs Eligibility To receive a new COE you must be: ✓ in lawful F-1 or J-1 status under Columbia's SEVIS supervision. a J-1 extension is typically a change to a higher level of education in the same field of study. It must be consistent with your original academic objective. ✓ admitted to a new full-time program of study at Columbia or continuing in the same program at a different degree level This may be directly after completing an academic program or from being on OPT after that program Expand all Collapse all Before You Apply When to Apply Earliest Date to Apply for F-1 and J-1 Students: As soon as you are accepted to your new full-time program at Columbia. Latest date to apply F-1 : No later than 50 days after your current program completion (to allow time for 60-day deadline) J-1 Students: Before your current DS-2019 expires. How to Apply Gather your documents and information ✓ Document Your admission letter (electronic copy accepted) Description ✓ Document Financial Certification Form Description Keep in mind that this should cover the tuition, fees and living expenses for the first academic year of the new program. Refer to our Estimated Expenses by School of Admission. Save the form and edit from your computer. Do not edit in a website browser or you will lose all your data. If you have dependents include them in your application. ✓ Document Funding Documents as listed on your Financial Certification Form Description ✓ Document Print-out of your most recent I-94 arrival/departure record Description Log in to Compass with your UNI and password to submit your application Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside F-1 Students ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) F-1 Students ISSO Morningside J-1 Students ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) J-1 Students Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. We will contact you Allow up to 10 business days for us to review and process your application. F-1: If your request is approved, we will email your new digital Form I-20 for a new program for you to print with additional instructions. J-1: We will notify you by email when your new extended DS-2019 is ready to be shipped. Per Department of State J Regulations, digital DS-2019 forms are not permitted to be emailed. Review, sign, and date your new I-20/DS-2019 F-1 Students: Your new I-20 start date will be the first date of the new program. J-1 Students: Your new DS-2019 will begin the day after the current DS-2019 expires. Use your new COE to travel, but keep all previous forms. The travel signature is valid for 12 months or until the end of your I-20/DS-2019, whichever is earlier. Expand all Collapse all Travel while you are in between programs Re-Entering the U.S. As long as you have the new I-20/DS-2019 for the new program, you can re-enter the U.S. at any time. This is because: you will keep the same SEVIS number and are considered a continuing student you are considered legally present in the U.S. in F/J status between the two programs Visa Validity You may continue to use an unexpired F/J entry visa. If your visa has expired, the new I-20/DS-2019 establishes the continued validity of your F/J status while you remain in the U.S., but the first time you travel outside the U.S. (except to Canada or Mexico), you will need to apply for a new F/J visa at a U.S. embassy or consulate. You do not need to pay another SEVIS fee because it is the same SEVIS record. Have your SEVIS fee receipt with you when you need to apply for a new visa. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close