Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Students F-1 OPT (Optional Practical Training) After Your Degree Program F-1 OPT (Optional Practical Training) After Your Degree Program F-1 OPT (Optional Practical Training) After Your Degree Program Many students decide to remain in the U.S. after graduation to apply their skills and knowledge and gain practical experience and training. OPT (Optional Practical Training) is commonly used by students in F-1 status to achieve this objective. On this Page question-circle icon What is OPT? check-square icon Eligibility clock icon Before You Apply listl icon Application Process calendar icon After You Submit Your USCIS Application id-card icon After You Receive Your EAD Spring 2022 OPT Webinar An ISSO advisor discusses OPT eligibility requirements and the application procedures. Watch Our Spring 2022 Webinar What is OPT? OPT (Optional Practical Training) is a benefit and extension of F-1 student status that permits you to remain in the U.S. after you complete your academic program with permission to work in your field of study. Post-Completion OPT extends your F-1 status although you are no longer an enrolled student, and also extends the F-2 status of any dependents who are with you. Learn more! Watch our short video, "What is OPT?" Eligibility ✓ You must be in active F-1 status in the U.S. at the time of application. The terms “active” and “initial” refer to your status in the SEVIS database, not to your enrollment in an academic program. Your SEVIS record is in “initial” status until you enter the U.S. and report your arrival to the ISSO, after which your SEVIS record is updated to "active". ✓ You must be enrolled in a full-time degree or qualifying certificate program in active F-1 status for at least one academic year (two consecutive semesters). You must arrive in the U.S. within 30 days from the start of classes during your first semester of entry in order for that term to count toward practical training eligibility. ✓ You have not used all 12 months of OPT at the same degree level ✓ You have not used OPT at a higher degree level * Exception for Graduate Students: You have finished all course requirements for your graduate degree except a dissertation, thesis or final project necessary for your degree (also known as ABD) Before You Apply Expand all Collapse all You must be in the U.S. at the time you submit your OPT application to USCIS F-1 regulations require you to be in the U.S. in F-1 status at the time you apply for OPT. Your most recent I-94 arrival record is among the required documentation. Types of employment allowed Employment on Post-completion OPT is paid or unpaid work in your field of study for at least 20 hours per week. Learn about types of employment allowed: Type Paid Employment Description You must work at least 20 hours per week when on post-completion OPT. Type Unpaid employment Description Unpaid work must be at least 20 hours per week and the work cannot violate any labor laws. Learn more about this on our unpaid internships and volunteering webpage Be prepared to provide evidence from the employer that you worked at least 20 hours per week during the period of employment. . Please note: STEM OPT extension requires paid employment. Type Multiple employers Description You may work for more than one employer, concurrently or one at a time. All employment must be related to your degree program. Type Short-term multiple employers Description Musicians and other performing artists should maintain a list of all "gigs", the dates and duration. If requested by DHS, you must be prepared to provide evidence showing a list of all gigs. Type Employment through an agency or consulting firm Description Also known as employment, temp, or staffing agencies. You are required to average at least 20 hours/week at the location where you are placed. Type Self-employed business owner Description You must be able to prove that you have the proper business license and that the business is related to your degree program. You may need to consult an attorney. Type Independent contractor/ free-lance Description If requested by DHS, be prepared to provide evidence showing the duration of the contract periods and the name and address of the contracting company. You can apply for OPT without a job offer A job offer is not required in advance of submitting an application which allows you more time to job hunt. However, you need to begin OPT employment within 90 days of the start date on your EAD. You are allowed a total of 90 days without employment on OPT The "clock" to count unemployment days begins on the start date of OPT on your EAD card ✓ Employment must begin within 90 days from the start date on your EAD. If USCIS processes your OPT application after your requested start date, it may adjust the start date to the date your OPT was approved. The end date, however, will not be extended beyond 14 months from your I-20 completion date. ✓ The 90 days of unemployment is an aggregate of all days without employment, including weekends and time between jobs. (This does not include vacations or sick days taken while employed.) ✓ SEVIS keeps track of your unemployment days, based on the information you submit via OPT Reporting. Be careful! If you accrue more than 90 days of unemployment, or if you forget to report and update your OPT to the ISSO, your F-1 SEVIS record may automatically terminate. A terminated SEVIS record cancels OPT authorization and requires you to leave the United States. You have a maximum amount of OPT time Your maximum amount of Post-Completion OPT is 12 months. If you had OPT previously authorized at the same degree level it will be deducted from the 12 month total. This includes: ✓ Any OPT authorized during your current program (Pre-Completion OPT) ✓ Any OPT authorized for another program at the same degree level Use your previously-issued EAD cards to calculate the number of days to be deducted. Plan ahead for your application timeline The earliest you can apply is 90 days before your program end date on your I-20. For more detail on the application timeline, go to Application Process Step 1. Keep records of all your employment We recommend that you maintain evidence — for each job — of the position held, the job title, contact information for the your supervisor or manager, a description of the work, and proof of the duration. If possible, obtain a signed letter from your hiring official, supervisor, or manager stating how your degree is related to the work performed. These records and letters are not part of your applications. It is useful to have them available in your personal files in case questions ever arise during OPT or in a future employment-based application. Learn more! Watch our short video "5 Fun Facts About OPT (Optional Practical Training)" Application Process Determine Your OPT Timeline Choose Your OPT Start Date Pay the OPT Administration Fee to ISSO Gather Documents and Information for ISSO Application Use Compass to Submit Your ISSO Application We Will Contact You Receive Your OPT I-20 Submit your OPT I-765 Application Online to USCIS Application Process Determine Your OPT Timeline Plan Ahead Your OPT approval may take more than three months to be processed by USCIS, so you need to plan ahead. Hopefully, you will receive an approval earlier than this. Apply as early as possible The earliest you can submit your application to the ISSO for your OPT I-20 is 90 days before your program end date. Use our OPT Calculator to determine: When to apply; How much OPT time you have left if you have used OPT at this educational level: You will need to have your EAD Card(s) available to add together all the days to be deducted from the 365-day total; OPT start and end dates Use our OPT Calculator Expand all Collapse all Additional Information for Doctoral Students As a doctoral student, you have some flexibility in determining your program end date for OPT purposes. You may use the defense date or the end of the term in which you complete requirements. Note that after your program end date, you are no longer eligible to engage in on-campus employment as a student or receive funding from your department. OPT employment can begin only after you have received your EAD card, and are within the dates printed on your EAD card. Consult with both an ISSO adviser and your academic adviser before finalizing your "custom end date" in the "OPT Calculator". Please ensure you are following GSAS registration guidelines regarding registration in the term you distribute. Back to Application Process Choose Your OPT Start Date Choose your OPT dates wisely You get to choose the date you would like OPT authorization to begin, within the 60-day period following your program end date. This is not an easy decision if you don’t have a job offer at the time of application. The latest date is not always best You may want to maximize the time you'll have for job-hunting by choosing the latest possible date. The downside, however, is that you cannot begin employment until the start date on your EAD. OPT dates cannot be changed Once you choose your OPT start date and submit your application to us, you cannot change it. Back to Application Process Pay the OPT Administration Fee to ISSO Pay the $240 Administration Fee. After payment, you will receive an email from Cybersource with your OPT Administration Fee receipt. Back to Application Process Gather Documents and Information for ISSO Application These are the documents you will upload when you log in to Compass to submit your application for the Post-Completion OPT I-20. Download a PDF version of the list here. 1. OPT Academic Adviser Form to be completed by you and your Department Administrator. Undergraduate students in CC/SEAS should contact the Berick Center. GS students should contact their advising dean at the Dean of Students Office. Some schools/programs submit a list of all prospective graduating students to the ISSO. The individual adviser form is not needed for: MBA (May graduates only) / MS Business programs / GSAPP / Journalism MS and MA / Law / MA in Statistics / SIPA / Social Work 2. Copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record (not your travel history). Make sure the record indicates “Class of Admission: F1" and “Admit Until Date: D/S,” which stands for duration of status. 3. Copies of EAD cards from previous OPT applications, if any. If you are missing a copy of your EAD card(s), please include a short explanation. You may edit this sample letter for missing EAD cards. 4. Your requested OPT start and end dates. Review Choosing your OPT Start Date before entering them on your application for an OPT I-20 from the ISSO. Your requested dates for an OPT I-20 cannot be changed after you submit your application. Back to Application Process Use Compass to Submit Your ISSO Application The earliest you can submit your application to the ISSO for your OPT I-20 is 90 days before your program end date. Click the appropriate link below to log in to Compass: ISSO-Morningside F-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC F-1 Students Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Back to Application Process We Will Contact You We will send a message to your Columbia email address when your digital OPT I-20 has been processed, which you will need for your USCIS application. Please note that 10 business days is the maximum processing time, not the average, and we will process your request as quickly as possible. Back to Application Process Receive Your OPT I-20 Review page 2 to verify the OPT dates you requested, then print and sign on page 1. You must submit your application within 30 days after the date this OPT I-20 was issued or it will be denied. Always use your most recent I-20 when you travel. Be aware that the travel signature on page 2 is valid for six months (not 12) when you’re on OPT. Keep all previously issued I-20s. You may need them for future applications. Back to Application Process Submit your OPT I-765 application online through your USCIS account. After you have your OPT I-20, the online application is easy to use. Watch this short video on the many advantages of filing online as compared to mailing a paper application. ISSO highly recommends that you file online, but if you prefer to send a paper application, here is the checklist of documents and USCIS mailing address. The ISSO provides the following tips regarding the OPT application, however, please keep in mind that you are responsible for the accuracy of your application to USCIS and following their step-by-step instructions. Expand all Collapse all 1 Create or Log in to Your USCIS Account Follow instructions for creating a USCIS Online Account or log in to your USCIS account if you already have one. Select “File a Form Online” and choose “Application for Employment Authorization (I-765)”. Follow the instructions and complete each step in the order they are presented to you. 2 ISSO Tips for the Online Application You will find that the online application is user-friendly, but come back to check if you're not sure about any of these questions. “What is your eligibility category?” Choose ONLY “(c)(3)(B) Student Post-Completion OPT”. “What is your reason for applying?” Choose the option “Initial permission for employment”. “U.S. Mailing Address” Be sure your U.S. mailing address on the I-765 will be valid for at least four - five months. If you do not have an address that will be valid for four - five months, you can enter the name and U.S. address of a friend or family member under “In Care Of Name (if any).” “Previously Authorized CPT or OPT” For CPT: Upload copy of your CPT I-20(s). For OPT: Upload copy of your EAD card(s). If you are missing I-20(s) or EAD card(s), upload a letter (template here). “I-94 Arrival and Departure Record” Copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record (not your travel history). Make sure the record indicates “Class of Admission: F1" and “Admit Until Date: D/S,” which stands for duration of status. “Status at last arrival” Scroll down to “F1 - F1 - Student, Academic Or Language Program.” “What is your A-Number?” This number is listed on your most recent EAD card, under “USCIS #.” If you do not have one or lost it then click the box “I do not have or know my A-Number”. “What is your USCIS Account Number?” If this is your first online application to USCIS, you will not have a USCIS Account Number yet. Click the box “I do not have or know my USCIS Online Account Number”. “Application Fee” Pay the required application fee. Remember that once you pay the fee, there can be no changes to your application as it will be considered submitted. “Review and Submit” Check that that you are within the 30-day window after the date your Post-Completion OPT I-20 was issued. Do not submit if it is outside this timeframe, and contact the ISSO for assistance. Verify that all information is correct and digitally sign and submit your application. Back to Application Process After You Submit Your OPT Application Follow USCIS guidelines for tracking EAD card delivery. Monitor your application status via your USCIS account and sign up for USPS informed delivery to track the delivery of your documents. Normally, you will receive 2 updates from USCIS before the EAD. You do not need to contact us when you receive these two updates. If you receive other communication that requires follow up, contact the ISSO for assistance. 1. I-797 Receipt Notice with a case number. You will receive a case number immediately after submitting the online application.Check for accuracy in case there’s an error in your name or other information that needs to be corrected. 2. I-797 Approval Notice * USCIS is extending flexibilities to OPT applicants whose applications were received between October 1, 2020, through October 31, 2021, and experienced excessive delays in in processing. See our OPT FAQs. Expand all Collapse all USCIS Processing Time and EAD Delivery FAQs How long will my application take? The USCIS processing time of OPT applications can vary. Check USCIS Case Processing Times to find out how long I-765 applications are currently taking. If your case has been pending outside USCIS's listed case processing time for I-765 applications, submit an inquiry to USCIS via your online account. What do I tell my employer if they want me to start working as soon as possible? Unfortunately, it is not possible to know exactly when your OPT application will be approved, and you need the EAD in hand to begin employment. You may need to be flexible in regard to your OPT start date. Can I work without pay while waiting for my EAD card? Any activity that could be considered OPT employment cannot begin until you have your EAD card and are within the approved dates on the EAD card. You cannot work, paid or unpaid, for an employer until your EAD card arrives. Still job-hunting? Review the types of employment that are allowed for OPT. How long can I stay in the U.S. while my OPT application is pending? The 60-day grace period no longer applies once you have applied for OPT before the deadline. You are able to stay in the US for as long as it takes USCIS to adjudicate your request. What happens if my OPT is approved after the start date I requested on my I-20? Generally, USCIS will adjust the start date on your EAD card to the date that USCIS approved your OPT. Regardless of when you are approved, F-1 regulations limit the extension of your OPT end date to 14 months after your program end date. Can I travel while my OPT application is pending? Travel before OPT approval is not recommended. If you decide you must travel, check here for the risks involved and the required documents. What if USCIS case status indicates that my EAD card is delivered but I did not receive it? Try one of these two methods: Use USPS’ Missing Mail and Lost Package Form to locate your envelope. Visit your local US Post Office and ask them for detailed scanning information about where and when your package was scanned. If USPS lost the EAD, attach a letter from the US Postal Service on official letterhead, stating that the USPS is responsible for the lost EAD, including the contact person from the US Post Office to send an email to the ISSO. Morningside: [email protected] CUIMC: [email protected] After You Receive Your EAD Expand all Collapse all Make a copy (front and back) of your EAD You should have already made a copy of your application materials before submitting your application to USCIS. Now add a copy of the EAD. You may need them for future immigration or visa applications. Apply for a Social Security Number (if you don't have one) If you do not already have an SSN, and didn't apply for one when you completed the I-765 OPT application, you are now eligible to apply on or after the start date on your EAD card. Do not apply again if you have already done so. Reporting Your OPT Once you are on OPT, report employment and any other changes within 10 days. Review the types of employment (paid and unpaid) that are allowed. Visit our Reporting Requirements page to learn more. Extending Your OPT In general, post-completion OPT cannot be extended, except in the following two situations: STEM OPT Extension: If you graduated from a degree program in a government-designated STEM field, you may be eligible for an extension for an additional 24 months of OPT. Read more about the STEM OPT extension. Cap-Gap Extension: If your employer files a change of status H-1B petition while you are on authorized OPT and it is selected by USCIS for processing, your OPT may be automatically extended during the period of time between the expiration of your OPT and the October 1st change of status to H-1B. Read more about the “Cap Gap” extension. Learn more! Watch our Extending Your OPT video for more information. Traveling During OPT While you are on OPT, you remain in F-1 status. If you have plans to travel abroad during this period, you need to know in advance which F-1 documents you need to have with you to return to the U.S. so you won't jeopardize your OPT authorization. Do not come back to the U.S. in any status other than F-1! Visit our Travel During F-1 OPT page for complete information. Our Travel Abroad on OPT video gives a great overview. Taking Classes During OPT During OPT, you are not permitted to study toward a degree program. Study is limited to part-time non-degree classes. If you decide to begin a new full-time program at: ✓ Columbia: Follow the instructions at Beginning a New Program. Your OPT is no longer valid when you get a new I-20 for the new program even if your EAD card has not expired. ✓ another U.S. school: Follow our "Transfer Out" instructions to have ISSO transfer your SEVIS record to the new school to obtain a new I-20 from them. As soon as you transfer your SEVIS record to the new program, the remainder of your OPT is forfeited and you must stop working. Expiration of Your EAD When your EAD expires, you have a 60 day grace period in which: ✓ to remain in the U.S. to prepare for departure or travel domestically, or ✓ transfer to another school, or ✓ change your visa status You cannot work during the grace period, or leave and return to the U.S. in F-1 status. On the 61st day after the EAD expires, SEVIS automatically completes your F-1 SEVIS record. If you decide to discontinue your OPT before the EAD expires, you do not have a grace period and must report your departure through OPT Reporting. This will complete your F-1 SEVIS record. Related Information Social Security Number Application OPT Request Form OPT Administration Fee Payment OPT Reporting Requirements Sample Letter for Missing I-20 Forms I-9 Handbook for Employers Exemption from Social Security tax Social Security Information for Employers USCIS on Starting Your Own Business "Empowerpoint" Presentation Overview Contact Us Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close