Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Students Transferring Your J-1 SEVIS Record to Another School Transferring Your J-1 SEVIS Record to Another School If you're going to another school next term, you need to ask us to release your electronic SEVIS record to the new school on a date that you choose, referred to as the release date. The next school gets ownership of your record on the date your SEVIS record is released. They cannot generate a DS-2019 for you until the SEVIS release date is reached. On this page Students: How to Transfer Scholars (Professors and Researchers): How to Transfer Travel with a J-1 SEVIS Transfer Expand all Collapse all Eligibility J-1 Students The purpose of a J-1 transfer must be to complete the original educational objective for which you first came to the U.S. as a J-1 Exchange Visitor. If you are making a change to your field of study, you are not eligible for a J-1 transfer. To transfer your SEVIS record, you must currently be in J-1 status with your Form DS-2019 end date in the future and either: ✓ currently be enrolled at Columbia, or ✓ currently working with J-1 Academic Training authorization after completing your program. J-1 Scholars (Professors or Researchers) It may be possible to transfer your J-1 SEVIS record to the next institution for the remainder of the five-year limit if you meet all of the following: ✓ You are currently at Columbia in valid J-1 status as a researcher or professor and have been offered a position at another university. ✓ The transfer will be initiated while you are still in status at Columbia with an end date on your DS-2019 into the future. ✓ The purpose of the transfer is to complete the original academic/professional objective for which you first came to the U.S. as a J-1 Exchange Visitor. J-1 Students: How to Transfer Your J-1 SEVIS Record to Another School Speak with us If you and your next school believe you’re qualified for a SEVIS transfer, discuss your travel and/or employment plans with us before choosing a SEVIS transfer release date. Expand all Collapse all Release Date Considerations Start Date The start date of the new DS-2019 must be the day following the expiration of the current one. There needs to be communication in advance with the next school about accepting your SEVIS record on the release date. Academic Training in the summer If you are going to work on Academic Training in the summer before enrolling in the fall at the new school, your release date must be on or after the last date of work or you will lose the employment eligibility. On Post-Completion Academic Training If you are currently on post-completion Academic Training, you need to choose a transfer release date on or after he last date of work. AT authorization will automatically end on the release date. Gather your documents ✓ Document A letter of admission Description From the new school. ✓ Document Transfer-in form from the new school Description If your new school does not use a transfer-in form, you need to let us know your SEVIS release date and the new school's SEVIS code in a cover note. ✓ Document Print-out of your I-94 arrival record Description As evidence of your J-1 status. Submit your documents as one PDF ISSO Morningside Via Email ISSO-CUIMC Via Email ISSO Morningside Via Walk-In Hours ISSO-CUIMC Via Walk-In Hours Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. We will review your application We will email you only if there is a concern. We will release your SEVIS record Once approved, we will release your SEVIS record to your new school on the mutually agreed upon release date. On this date, your new school will have ownership of your SEVIS record and we will no longer have access to it. Check with your new institution on what you need to obtain your new “transfer” DS-2019. Scholars (Professors and Researchers): How to Transfer Your J-1 SEVIS Record to Another School Provide our contact information There needs to be communication in advance with the next school because the start date of the new DS-2019 must be the day following the expiration of the current one. Provide the next school with contact information for one of our international scholar advisors: ISSO Morningside Contact Information ISSO-CUIMC Contact Information Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. We will establish the release date Once your next school contacts us, we will speak with them to establish the release date of the transfer. Travel with a J-1 SEVIS Transfer If your J-1 visa in your passport is still unexpired, you may continue to use it with the new school’s DS-2019. With the transfer of your record, you will keep the same SEVIS number. If you need to apply for a new visa, you won’t need to pay a new SEVIS fee. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close