Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Students Cap-Gap OPT Extension Cap-Gap OPT Extension Are you on Post-Completion or STEM Extension OPT? Is your employer sponsoring you for H-1B status? "Cap-Gap" refers to the period of time between the expiration of your OPT and the October 1st start of an H-1B petition. On this page: Eligibility Before You Apply How to Get a Cap-Gap I-20 Travel During Cap-Gap Extension Period FAQs Eligibility You are eligible for an extension of both your F-1 status and OPT if: ✓ Your employer files an H-1B petition as a change of status, not as a consular processing, with USCIS with an employment start date of October 1. ✓ You are on authorized OPT or STEM OPT extension on the date USCIS receives the petition. ✓ You have a pending or approved change of status to H-1B. Selection in the H-1B electronic registration lottery or a Registration Selection Notice is not sufficient documentation. You will need your I-797C Receipt Notice OR I-797A Approval Notice. "Cap-gap" work authorization ends on September 30th, even if you have an H-1B petition that remains pending on October 1st. Expand all Collapse all Before You Apply What is cap-gap extension of OPT? The cap refers to the limit or quota on the number of individuals who can receive H-1B status at the beginning of the government's fiscal year — October 1st. The cap is currently set at 65,000 recipients plus an additional 20,000 for those with US Master's degree or higher. The gap is the period of time between the end of your F-1 OPT and the beginning of H-1B status. If you graduated in May, typically your 12 months of OPT will end sometime between mid-May and mid-July, leaving a gap in legal status and authorized employment through September 30th. The Cap-Gap rule automatically extends F-1 status and, when applicable, extends OPT work authorization: Cap-Gap until September 30th if you have your H-1B I-797 receipt from USCIS or I-797 Approval Notice The cap-gap extension of OPT through September 30 is automatic if you’re eligible If eligible, you don’t apply for a new EAD and don't pay a new USCIS fee. Your employer can allow you to continue to work on the basis of the timely-filing of your H-1B petition while your OPT was valid. An updated “cap-gap” I-20 will reflect your extended OPT permission to work until September 30th if the H-1B petition has been receipted or approved. Cap-gap employment authorization ends on September 30th “Cap-gap” work authorization is valid only through September 30th, even if you have an H-1B petition that remains pending on Oct. 1. If you continue to work without authorization, you risk accruing unlawful presence. Timeline The earliest a “cap subject” employer can file an H-1 petition on your behalf is 6 months in advance of the requested start date, which means April 1 for the following October 1. For example: How to Get a Cap-Gap I-20 Report your current employment if you haven’t yet done so. Your employer's name and address will be printed on the cap gap I-20. Gather your documents 1. I-797C Receipt Notice OR I-797A Approval Notice for a change of status to H-1B. (Note: Selection in the H-1B electronic registration lottery or a Registration Selection Notice is not sufficient documentation.) 2. Most recent I-94 arrival record 3. OPT EAD Log in to Compass with your UNI and password to submit your application Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside F-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC F-1 Students Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. We will contact you Allow up to 10 business days for us to review and process your application. If your request is approved, we will email your new digital Cap-Gap I-20 for you to print with additional instructions. Review, sign and date your I-20. Expand all Collapse all Travel During Cap-Gap Extension Period Do not leave the US while the H-1B change of status is pending It will nullify the change of status and make you ineligible for the cap gap extension. Travel Abroad After H-1B is Approved According to USCIS information on the Cap-Gap extension, generally, you may travel abroad and return to the US in F-1 status during a Cap-Gap period if: ✓ Your change of status to H-1B has been approved ✓ You return before your H-1B employment begins (normally at the beginning of the government's fiscal year—October 1) ✓ You have other documents required for F-1 readmission (unexpired passport, unexpired F-1 entry visa) Please be sure to consult with your employer and/or attorney regarding USCIS travel guidelines as it relates to your H1B application. Expand all Collapse all FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) What if my OPT expires before April 1st and I am in my 60-day grace period when my employer files the H-1 petition? Your F-1 legal status to remain in the US may be extended, but unfortunately you won't have permission to continue working. How does my employer verify my employment eligibility on an I-9 after my EAD has expired? You and your employer will need your passport, EAD card, I-797 receipt notice for H-1B Petition or I-797 B approval notice, Cap Gap I-20, passport. They can refer to page 21 of the Employers’ I-9 Manual. What happens if my H-1B petition is subsequently rejected, denied or revoked after I become eligible for an automatic Cap-Gap Extension? If your H-1B petition is not selected and approved, you will have the standard 60-day grace period from the date of the rejection notice to depart the US, transfer the I-20 to a new program, or apply for a change of status. However, if a denial is based on a discovered status violation, there is no grace period and you have to leave the US immediately. Do the limits on unemployment time apply with a Cap-Gap Extension? Yes. The 90-day limitation on unemployment during the initial post-completion 12-Month OPT authorization continues during the cap-gap extension, as does the additional 60-day limitation on unemployment under the STEM OPT extension guidelines. May I apply for a STEM OPT Extension during my Cap-Gap OPT Extension? Yes, but your STEM OPT Extension application must be received by USCIS before your cap-gap extension period expires. Does my dependent’s status also get extended with my Cap-Gap extension? Yes. Your F-2 dependent’s status is also extended. Want to learn more? See what USCIS says about the Cap-Gap Extension. Related Information I-9 Handbook for Employers USCIS: Sept. 30th expiration of cap-gap status and work authorization Exemption from Social Security tax Social Security Information for Employers Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close