Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Taxes U.S. Income Tax Basics Landing Page U.S. Income Tax Basics Landing Page U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) U.S. income tax regulations are quite complex. The federal tax system is administered by the IRS (Internal Revenue Service) and, in addition, each state has its own regulations and forms. This brief overview provides key concepts for your general understanding. On this Page id-card icon Federal Tax Status clipboard icon The Basics listl icon How to File external-link icon Related Information Start Here: Determining Your Federal Tax Status Your tax residency status (nonresident or resident) is separate from your immigration status. It is based only on your presence in the U.S. over a period of years, with special rules for students and scholars in F or J status. If you spend any part of the year in the U.S.--even one day---that year counts as a tax year. F and J students are generally considered "nonresident aliens" (NRA) for federal tax purposes for the first 5 tax years, not necessarily consecutive, going back a number of years. J scholars (researchers and professors) and their dependents are considered nonresident aliens for two out of every six tax years. Don't commit tax fraud in error by using TurboTax or other similar software and file a resident tax return if you are not eligible! Don’t worry! Sprintax Can Help! Use Sprintax to determine whether you are a nonresident or resident for federal tax purposes. The ISSO provides access to Sprintax for you to use at no cost to determine your federal tax status, and to complete the 8843 and any other nonresident federal tax form(s) applicable to your personal situation. Sprintax is a nonresident tax preparation software designed for international students, alumni, scholars, and their dependents. Before logging into Sprintax, watch their short video on the residency section. If Sprintax determines that you are a resident alien, check out our resource page for resident tax-filers. The Basics Expand all Collapse all 1 IRS Form 8843 is a requirement even if you had no U.S. income! Form 8843 is required by the IRS for all Fs and Js (including F-2 and J-2 dependent spouses and children) who are "nonresident aliens" for federal tax purposes*--even if you had no U.S. income. Form 8843 is an informational statement that shows you were in the U.S. and were a Nonresident Alien (NRA). If you were in the U.S. in F or J status at any time in 2021 and didn't have any U.S. income , the 8843 is the only form** you need to send to the IRS, and the deadline is June 15, 2022. You do not need a Social Security number or an ITIN if this is the only form you need to file. (*Residents do not have the 8843 requirement.) You can log in to use Sprintax from the next page to generate a complete form 8843 form at no cost. This form is not electronic and Sprintax will provide mailing instructions. **If you choose not to complete Form 8843 with Sprintax, be aware that the ISSO is not able to answer any questions about it and note that the IRS mailing address is on page 3 of its instructions. 2 F-2 and J-2 dependents have an 8843 requirement IRS Form 8843 is required for each F or J dependent, including children. Each 8843 must be mailed in a separate envelope. When you use Sprintax, they will ask for information about your dependents and will generate a complete 8843 form for each family member. J-2 spouses with employment authorization who had income will need to file their own tax return because nonresidents are not able to file a joint tax return. See Special Situations item 1 on the Sprintax webpage for information about obtaining a code. 3 The U.S. tax system is "pay-as-you go" The tax year is January 1 - December 31. The tax system is "pay-as-you-go” which means that in most cases employers withhold money out of your paycheck for taxes during the tax year and send it to the federal and state tax authorities. A personal tax return is due April 15th of the following year. If you had U.S. income in 2020, the 8843 is part of your tax return that is due on April 18, 2022. A tax return is a reconciliation between tax that has been withheld and tax that is owed, depending on the amount of taxable income. You either get a refund for overpayment or owe the government money for underpayment. Log in from the Columbia portal on the next page for federal forms at no cost to you.. 4 Common sources of taxable income for nonresidents Nonresidents report and pay taxes only on U.S.-source income. Residents follow the same tax rules as U.S. citizens and pay taxes on their worldwide income. ✓ Payment for services: Teaching or graduate assistantships, other on-campus "casual" employment (paid by the hour), F-1 Practical Training, J-1 student Academic Training, J-1 research scholar or professor salaries. Wages are most commonly reported on a W-2 by the end of January of the next year. ✓ Scholarships, fellowships, or grants from a U.S. source that goes toward living or travel expenses (NOT toward covering tuition and fees, books, and other required educational supplies). Usually reported on a 1042-S which is issued by Human Resources at the end of February. ✓ Dividends or capital gains from U.S. mutual funds, stocks or bonds ✓ Any other income—such as rent or copyright earnings—from U.S. sources (except for interest earned on a U.S. checking or savings account or CD which are not taxable for nonresidents) ✓ Prizes, awards, royalties from U.S. source 5 Tax forms and payment statements (e.g. W-2, 1042-S) If you have taxable U.S. income, you will receive a form by mail or electronically that reports the annual total. You need this to file a tax return. The most common, a W-2 form, also known as the Wage and Tax Statement, reports an employee's annual wages and the amount of taxes withheld from their paychecks. The employer is required to send a W-2 to each employee (and to the IRS) by the end of January the following year. At Columbia, Payroll in the Finance Division is responsible for the W-2. The 1042-S is another form that reports different types of U.S. income (e.g. fellowship and travel grants, income covered by a tax treaty). The Payer must send you this form by March 15th the following year. See Year-End Tax Reporting Documents from Columbia's Division of Finance. See the list of documents you may receive or require for a tax return on our Filing Your Nonresident Tax Forms page. 6 Each state has its own income tax regulations, forms, and definitions of tax status If you earn money in more than one state during the calendar year, you may need to file a state tax return for each. You may be a nonresident alien (NRA) for federal tax purposes but be considered a resident for state tax purposes. 7 NY State and NYC income tax status and tax returns When you live in NYC and have income, you are liable for NY State and maybe NYC taxes in addition to federal taxes. Unlike your federal tax status, your immigration status as an international student or scholar is not relevant to your New York State and NYC tax status. You may be a nonresident alien (NRA) for federal tax purposes but be considered a resident for New York state tax purposes. Here's what to expect: Undergraduate students in a degree program are considered to be nonresidents by NY State (applies to both domestic and international students) Graduate students and J scholars are treated like anyone else living in NY because their tax residency status is determined solely by the number of days spent in NY during the tax year (more than or less than 183 days) and whether they had a place to live for at least 11 months. It is common for a graduate student who begins a program in the fall to be a nonresident for NYS and NYC the first year because their first semester is shorter than 6 months, and then to be surprised when they become a NYS resident during the second year of a program. Residents pay more tax. See NYS Income Tax Definitions. Beware! Fellowship stipends and travel grants are taxable income, reported on a 1042-S form. Federal taxes are withheld but NYS/NYC taxes are not. Students and scholars are often surprised by the amount of NY taxes they owe on this type of income. Columbia provides free access to Sprintax for federal nonresident tax forms. You have the option to use Sprintax for your state tax return(s) for a an individual fee, or you may want to do the NY state tax return on your own through "freefile", but be very careful not to file a federal resident tax return at the same time. NYS Department of Taxation has an FAQ page about NY Income Tax. 8 Each individual's tax situation is unique Your situation is unique and different from your fellow students and scholars because it is dependent upon the amount of time you have spent in the U.S., the nonimmigrant status(es) that you have held, the type of income you may receive, and if your nationality makes you eligible for a tax treaty benefit. Note that even if you have a tax-exempt income through a treaty benefit, you still must file a tax return. Human Resources has an office that processes tax treaty applicability and issues Form 1042-S for certain types of income. While they are working remotely and not available for walk-in appointments, you may submit an inquiry to their ServiceNow Form or call the HR Service Center at 212-851-2888. 9 Tax returns generally have an April 15th deadline There are exceptions to the April 15th date when it falls on a weekend or state holiday. Washington, D.C.holidays impact tax deadlines for everyone in the same way federal holidays do. The due date for a 2021 tax return is April 18, 2022 because of the April 15th Emancipation Day holiday in the DC. 10 IRS COVID Stimulus Payments In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the US government introduced the CARES (Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security) Act in April 2020, which provided a $1200 to most US citizen and resident tax filers. Learn more about navigating the first stimulus payment here. In December 2020, the US government authorised the release of a second pandemic stimulus payment – worth $600. This Sprintax blog post gives an overview of the second stimulus payments provided by the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act , covering: Who is eligible to keep/receive the first and second stimulus payments Who is not eligible to keep/receive the second stimulus payment What to do if you have received the payment in error What to do if you already amended your tax return, returned the first stimulus payment but have now received the second payment Other useful Q & A’s about the topic Feel free to reach out to Sprintax if you have further questions. Click here to view this short video Your Filing Obligations by Sprintax Tax Preparation for Nonresidents. How to File Most international students and scholars are nonresidents for federal tax purposes. Due to the complexities of U.S. tax law and legal restrictions, the staff of the ISSO (and all University offices) are neither qualified nor permitted to provide individual tax advice. To assist you, Columbia provides access to Sprintax, an easy-to-use tax preparation software at no cost for your federal forms. You also have the option of using it for a state tax return for an individual fee. Submitting Your Nonresident Tax Forms Until last year, mailing in your return(s) via US post was the only way to submit to the IRS. Now, it may be possible to submit your federal nonresident tax return electronically if certain conditions are met. Electronic submission (referred to as E-filing) applies only to the 1040NR and 8843 when filed together. If the 8843 is the only form you need, it remains a paper form that Sprintax will generate for you to print and sign and mail to the IRS. State tax returns must be mailed via post. Don’t worry! Sprintax will guide you through this as part of the process. Check out our youtube tax workshop playlist for an overview. Use Sprintax to verify your tax status and complete nonresident forms Learn about resources for filing a resident tax return Related Information Filing Your Non-Resident Tax Forms Resources for Filling Your Resident Tax Forms ISSO Tax Workshops Year-End Tax Reporting Documents from Columbia Submit an Inquiry to HR About 1042-S or Tax Treaties W-2 from Columbia Payroll Canadian Tuition Receipt TL-11A IRS Who Is a Student? IRS Exempt Individuals:Teachers and Trainees IRS Publication 901 - US Tax Treaties IRS Publication 515 - Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Entities IRS Publication 519 - Tax Guide for Aliens IRS Form 8843 NYS Income Tax Definitions NYS Income Tax FAQS E-file a NY State Tax Return for Free Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close