Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Students Returning from Canada, Mexico, and the Adjacent Caribbean Islands Returning from Canada, Mexico, and the Adjacent Caribbean Islands If you are traveling to Canada, Mexico, or the Adjacent Caribbean Islands (except Cuba) listed here, you may be able to return to the U.S. in the same status with an expired visa. This process, automatic revalidation, is not considered a new admission to the United States. Need to know Only students and scholars in F and J status may use automatic revalidation to return from a trip to an adjacent island with an expired visa. All visa types are eligible for automatic revalidation to return from Canada or Mexico. On this page Eligibility Requirements How to Travel with Automatic Revalidation Eligibility Requirements ✓ You must be in lawful nonimmigrant status ✓ You must not have applied for a U.S. visa while in one of these destinations. If you apply for a visa during your visit, you must wait for it to be issued before you return. If it is denied by the U.S. consulate, you will have to go directly to your home country to apply for a new visa. ✓ You must travel to only one of the destinations. For example, you may not go to Canada, then to a third country, and back to Canada before reentering the U.S. ✓ You must return to the U.S. within 30 days ✓ You are not a citizen of Syria, Iran, or Sudan or countries identified by the Department of State as a state that sponsors terrorism How to Travel with Automatic Revalidation Learn whether you need a visa to visit your destination by checking information on the website of the consulate or embassy. Return to the U.S. within 30 days after visiting only one of the destinations. Carry the necessary documents. Expand all Collapse all F-1 Student Unexpired passport Unexpired I-94 arrival/departure record. If you have changed your status in the U.S., carry the USCIS approval notice with you) Expired visa in passport Unexpired I-20 with valid travel signature J-1 Student Unexpired passport Unexpired I-94 arrival/departure record, If you have changed your status in the U.S., carry the USCIS approval notice with you) Expired visa in passport Unexpired DS-2019 with valid travel signature J-1 Scholar Unexpired passport Unexpired I-94 arrival/departure record. If you have changed your status in the U.S., carry the USCIS approval notice with you) Expired visa in passport Unexpired DS-2019 Employment letter, if applicable H-1B / O-1 / TN / E-3 (return from Canada and Mexico only) Unexpired passport Unexpired I-94 arrival/departure record (if you have changed your status in the U.S., carry the USCIS approval notice with you) Expired visa in passport (Canadians are exempt from the visa requirement) Form I-797 approval notice (H-1B/ O-1) Employment letter Ask specifically for automatic visa revalidation from the port of entry officer when reentering the U.S. We advise that you print a copy of the automatic visa revalidation information just in case the officer is not familiar with the procedure. Also, if you have an I-94 card inside your passport do not surrender it when leaving the United States. Related Information Applying for a Visa (Students) Applying for a Visa (Scholars) List of Adjacent Islands Automatic Revalidation I-94 Arrival Record Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close