Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) J-1 Scholar Health Insurance J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Having adequate health insurance coverage in the United States is essential. This page identifies the J Exchange Visitor program minimum requirements for coverage of all J-1 exchange visitors and their family members. On this page Health Insurance in the U.S. J-1 Health Insurance Regulations How to Obtain J-1 Health Insurance Health Insurance in the U.S. Unlike many countries--perhaps your own--the United States does not have government-subsidized universal health insurance. Health insurance is predominantly private, and health care is expensive. Even individuals with insurance often have additional costs that are not covered by their insurance plan. Without insurance, a routine doctor’s visit can cost more than $200, and does not include laboratory tests or medication. A visit to an emergency room may be billed for several thousand dollars, depending on the circumstances, as can overnight stays in the hospital. Unfortunately, individuals with no or inadequate insurance can find themselves in severe financial hardship with one illness or one accident. J-1 Health Insurance Regulations Obtaining adequate health insurance is not just a recommendation or suggestion for students and scholars in J-1 status and their J-2 dependents--it is a regulatory requirement. The U.S. Department of State administers the J-1 Exchange Visitor Program, and is concerned for the health, safety and well-being of their program participants during their stay in the United States. To ensure that individuals coming to the U.S. under the J exchange visitor program have adequate health insurance, they have stipulated minimum standards. Expand all Collapse all Health Insurance coverage standards The insurance coverage must meet these minimum standards: ✓ Medical benefit of at least $100,000 per person per accident or illness ✓ Deductible that does not exceed $500 per accident or illness ✓ Coverage of pre-existing conditions after a reasonable waiting period ✓ J patient cannot be required to pay more to exceed 25% medical costs ✓ Minimum medical evacuation expenses in the amount of $50,000 ✓ Minimum repatriation of remains in the amount of $25,000 ✓ The insurance company must meet minimum industry rating requirements (an A. M. Best rating of "A-" or above, an Insurance Solvency International, Ltd. (ISI) rating of "A-i" or above, a Standard & Poor's Claims-paying Ability rating of "A-" or above, or a Weiss Research, Inc. rating of B+ or above). Failure to comply with Health Insurance Requirements You will be in violation of the Exchange Visitor Program if you: willfully fail to maintain health insurance coverage with the minimum standards set forth below, or misrepresent your coverage to your J-1 sponsor, in this case the ISSO. You will be subject to termination as an exchange visitor participant if you violate the terms of the health insurance regulations. How to Purchase J-1 Health Insurance Before you purchase health insurance, make sure that you are not already covered. Expand all Collapse all Are you an enrolled student at Columbia in J-1 status (not a J-1 Student Intern)? All international students enrolled at Columbia University are required to have the university’s Student Health Insurance Plan. This plan meets all J program requirements, so you do not need to obtain additional insurance. Students in J-1 status can learn more about their student insurance plan on the Columbia Health website. Students who have graduated and are in J-1 status for authorized Academic Training need to comply with the J health insurance requirements. Are you a Columbia employee? Full-Time: If you are a full-time employee at Columbia, most likely you and your dependents can be covered. Refer to the Benefits information for new hires at Human Resources to read about Health insurance coverage. When choosing one of the plans offered for employees, keep in mind that you are not eligible for a “high-deductible” plan. Part-Time: Part-time employees are usually not eligible for university health insurance, so most likely you will need to purchase your own. Do you have health insurance from a home country? The Department of State’s language regarding insurance from home is quite vague: “The policy must be backed by the full faith and credit of your home country government”. This means that your home country insurance must fully cover all your health needs while you are in the United States. Most would not, so you should check this prior to your arrival. Still need health insurance coverage? Learn about US health insurance It can be confusing to review and compare policies if you're not familiar with the terminology. Learn about U.S. health coverage and medical terms with: this user-friendly glossary. this 5-minute US Healthcare video. Although produced for an international student audience in mind, it is useful for its description of the US healthcare system, where to seek treatment, and explanation of complicated insurance terms. Review the insurance policy information Review the information about policies that meet the government criteria and the health needs of you and your family members from the list of providers below. If you're bringing dependents, they must comply with the same insurance requirements. The table below has links to companies that insure international clients and are familiar with Department of State regulations for J visa holders. Expand all Collapse all These are some providers that insure international clients. Even though most of these companies target international students, they also provide policies for scholars. Please read carefully when you research your options. Company Name and Link BETiNS International Health and Travel Company Name and Link Compass Student and Exchange Visitor Insurance Company Name and Link Cultural Insurance Services International (CISI) Company Name and Link Insubuy Company Name and Link International Student Protection (ISP) Company Name and Link International Student Insurance Company Name and Link Seven Corners Company Name and Link Tokio Marine Company Name and Link Visit Insurance Visit our resource page Find additional health-related information including: Urgent care Mental health Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close