Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Guidelines to Maintaining Status (Scholars) Guidelines to Maintaining Status (Scholars) On this page About Your Status J Scholar Guidelines J Scholar Two-Year Home Residency Requirement H-1B / E-3 / O-1 / TN Guidelines About Your Status You obtain an immigration status in the U.S. through admission at a port of entry or by approval of an application to USCIS (Citizenship and Immigration Services). Your status is also referred to as “visa status”or “nonimmigrant status”. A visa is an entry document only--you can have more than one entry visa in your passport (Canadians are exempt from the visa requirement) but you can enter the U.S. in only one status. What is the difference between visa and status? View our Visa page. How Your Status is Recorded The status in which you are admitted by an immigration officer is stamped in your passport and recorded electronically in an I-94 Arrival Record if entering by air. Land borders issue a paper I-94 record. If your status is approved by USCIS as a change from another status, your I-94 card will be part of USCIS approval notice (I-797 Notice of Action form). It is important not to violate any of the provisions of your visa status so you can keep your focus on the academic and professional objectives for which you came. These guidelines should help you be aware of what you need to do--and should not do---to maintain your legal status. J Scholar Videos These videos have it all -- from reporting your arrival to leaving Columbia (or extending your stay). Watch them now! Part 1: J-1 Scholar Categories and Characteristics Part 2: Guidelines to Maintaining Status Part 1 Part 2: Guidelines to Maintaining Status Part 2 Guidelines to Maintaining J Status Expand all Collapse all 1 Report your first arrival in J-1 status soon after you get here with the SEVIS Report Form Follow the instructions for Reporting Your Arrival. This is mandatory and will activate your SEVIS record. You cannot apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) until at least two days after reporting your arrival. 2 Maintain continuous health insurance for the duration of your time in the U.S. Also for any J-2 dependents. See more information on health insurance requirements. 3 Participate only in the activity for which the DS-2019 has been issued 4 Update your address every time you move (within 10 days) Follow the instructions at Changing Your Address. 5 Request authorization for any incidental employment approval before the activity takes place Request authorization for any incidental employment approval. 6 Keep an unexpired passport for at least six months into the future 7 Always have the necessary up-to-date documents with you when you return from a trip abroad Always have the necessary up-to-date documents with you when you return from a trip abroad. 8 Notify us of any J-2 dependent permanent departure. We must remove them for your SEVIS record and issue you an updated DS-2019. 9 Notify us if you leave the U.S. earlier than the end date of your program on the DS-2019 or if you change to another immigration status in the U.S. Always keep a paper or electronic copy of all documentation pertaining to your immigration status, including current and expired passports and any employment authorization. You may need them for a future immigration application. 10 Don’t let your DS-2019 expire before you are finished with your program! If you need more time, work with your academic department to get an extension of your DS-2019. 11 Don't apply for or accept governmental Public Benefits When applying for a nonimmigrant visa, applicants have to document that they have the financial resources to support themselves and any family members with them. Accepting taxpayer-funded public benefits can jeopardize your legal status and future visa applications, change of status applications and admission to the U.S. if it is determined that you could become a public burden. Public benefits that count towards the "public charge inadmissibility" rule broadly include any Federal, State, or local cash assistance for income maintenance, SNAP (commonly known as food stamps), certain government housing programs, and Medicaid. Refer to the USCIS Public Charge Fact Sheet for additional information. J Scholars Two-Year Home Residency Requirement This provision, also known as 212(e) applies to some--not all--individuals in J status. If you are subject based on any of the three circumstances, you are required to return to your home country at the end of your J-1 Exchange Visitor program for a cumulative period of at least two years for a cumulative period of at least two years (24 months) before being eligible to obtain H-1B, L, Permanent Residency status or changing visa status within the U.S. Please see J-1 Visa Characteristics for more information. Guidelines to Maintaining H-1B / E-3 / O-1 / TN Status Expand all Collapse all 1 Be familiar with your immigration documents. Immigration documents I-94 Arrival Record: an electronic record of your most recent admission to the U.S. and reflects the date and class of admission, and the expiration date of the period of authorized period of stay. Always check it for accuracy each time you return to the U.S. I-129 petition is filed with USCIS by Columbia University on your behalf. A copy of the I-129 was given to you with your H-1B or O-1 approval notice. If you are in E-3 or TN status you will have an I-129 only if we filed a petition for you in the U.S. (It is more common to obtain TN status at a port of entry and to obtain an E-3 visa directly at a consulate or embassy). I-797 Approval Notice: shows that you are the beneficiary of an employer’s I-129 petition with the period of validity. Labor Condition Application (LCA): The LCA is a formal declaration we filed with the U.S. Department of Labor stating our intention to employ you in H1B or E-3 status in compliance with specific federal employer sponsorship requirements (e.g. wages, work conditions, etc.). The LCA specifies your dates of employment, your minimum annual salary, your job title and employment address. The LCA is required for H-1B and E-3 only. 2 Keep your passport valid for at least 6 months past the expiration of your status. If you need to renew your passport while you're in the U.S., refer to this ISSO webpage. 3 Report a change of your home address to USCIS within 10 days of moving. You are required to report your change of U.S. address to USCIS on Form AR-11 within 10 days, every time you move. H-1B at CUIMC only: Log in to Compass to update your US address. 4 Work only for Columbia and only in the position for which your status was granted. Your status is both employer and job specific. You cannot work for another employer unless they sponsor you. It is a violation of your status to work or accept honoraria or consultation fees for another employer. 5 Report changes You and your department have to report to us any proposed changes in your employment conditions well in advance of the proposed change (e.g. change in title, hours, duties). 6 Review your documents before leaving the U.S. and make sure they are up to date When you travel outside of the U.S., refer to our page on Documents Need to Travel to be sure you have everything you need before leaving the U.S. 7 Make sure you are re-admitted in the correct status when you return from a trip abroad. Be sure you are admitted in the correct status and for the correct length of time when you return. Your status will end on the date of you I-94 Arrival/departure record. Contact us if you notice an error or data inconsistency. 8 Always keep a paper or electronic copy of all documentation pertaining to your immigration status, including current and expired passports and any employment authorization. You may need them for a future immigration application. 9 You and your department must notify us if your employment ends earlier than the petition date. Your status is linked to your continuing employment. Remember there is no "grace period", so it is important that you take steps to secure an alternate status or depart the U.S. in a timely manner. See our Leaving Columbia page. Related Information About Your Visa Changing Your Address Maintaining Status for Dependents Travel Signatures and Passport Renewal Reporting Your First Arrival (J Scholar) Transferring Your J-1 SEVIS Record to Another School J Scholar Handbook J-1 Exchange Visitors Skills List J-1 Two-Year Home Residency Requirement Advisory Opinion Waiver of the Two-Year Home Residency Requirement Know Your Rights While Working in the U.S. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close