Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Applying for a Visa (Scholars) Applying for a Visa (Scholars) Complete the following steps to apply for a visa at a U.S. consulate On this page Verify that you need to apply for a visa How to Apply Verify that you need to apply for a visa A U.S. visa is an entry document that you must apply for it at a U.S. embassy or consulate outside the United States. You do not need to apply for a visa if you: ✓ are a national of Canada or Bermuda. You are exempt from the requirement of obtaining a visa in your passport but you do need a COE. ✓ already have an unexpired entry visa in the same classification that was issued for a previous employer or institution. You may use your unexpired visa to enter the United States in conjunction with Columbia documentation related to your visa classification. How to Apply Complete the Online Nonimmigrant Visa Application (DS-160) Complete the State Department's Online Nonimmigrant Visa Application (DS-160) which is the first step in making your visa appointment. Read more about the DS-160 application here. How to apply for a visa online Make your visa appointment Go to the link for the embassy or consulate where you will apply for a visa to learn about scheduling a visa appointment, procedures and requirements specific to its location. Prepare and complete your required documents Prepare your documents and pay any required fees. Expand all Collapse all J-1 Professor/Researcher or J-1 Student Intern 1. Passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) 2. DS-160 confirmation page with your application ID number on it 3. Valid DS-2019 4. SEVIS Fee Receipt 5. Proof of Columbia Affiliation 6. Financial documentation 7. DS-7002 (only if you are a coming to Columbia under a J-1 Student Intern Category) Additional documents if your spouse or children will be applying for a J-2 dependent visa 8. Dependent's COE (J-2 form DS-2019) 9. Dependent's proof of relationship (marriage or birth certificate) 10. Copy of your visa page in passport, only if you're already in the U.S. before your dependent joins you 11. Copy of your I-94 arrival/departure record, only if you're already in the U.S. before your dependent joins you H-1B / O-1 1. Passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) 2. DS-160 confirmation page with your application ID number on it 3. I-797 Approval Notice of Columbia's H-1B/O-1 petition 4. Copy of your I-129 petition, including sponsor letter from your hiring department Additional documents if your spouse or children will be applying for an H-4 / O-3 dependent visa 5. Dependent's proof of relationship (marriage or birth certificate) 6. Copy of your visa page in passport (only if you're already in the U.S. before your dependent joins you) 7. Copy of your I-94 arrival/departure record (only if you're already in the U.S. before your dependent joins you) E-3 1. Passport (valid for at least six months beyond the date of travel to the U.S.) 2. DS-160 confirmation page with your application ID number on it 3. LCA (Labor Condition Application that we filed with the Department of Labor as evidence of your being paid the prevailing wage) 4. Sponsor letter from your hiring department 5. Educational credentials 6. I-797 Approval Notice (only if an E-3 petition was filed with USCIS. Not common) 7. Copy of your E-2 I-129 petition if filed with USCIS (not common). Additional documents if your spouse or children will be applying for an E-3 dependent visa 8. Dependent's proof of relationship (marriage or birth certificate) 9. Copy of your visa page in passport (only if you're already in the U.S. before your dependent joins you) 10. Copy of your I-94 arrival/departure record (only if you're already in the U.S. before your dependent joins you) Learn what to expect at the visa appointment Interviews are very short, so it’s important to use the limited time to clearly explain your purpose for going to the United States. Expand all Collapse all Be prepared to establish nonimmigrant intent Most nonimmigrant visas (except H-1B and O-1) require you to establish that you are going to the U.S. only for a temporary purpose, and do not intend to stay permanently. You need to show: ✓ that you will keep a residence abroad and expect to return there ✓ personal, professional, and financial ties to your home country Expect your fingerprints to be taken Ink-free, digital fingerprint scans will be taken as part of your application process. They are usually taken during your interview, but this varies based on location. Be prepared for a possible delay for a security check After your visa interview, the consular officer will let you know if further processing is necessary for your application. Review the Department of State's (DOS) web information on further administrative processing. If your visa processing is delayed, it is important to notify both your academic department and our office. Receive and review your entry visa Interviews are very short, so it’s important to use the limited time to clearly explain your purpose for going to the United States for a temporary time and your plans after you complete your program. J Scholars and Student Interns: Your original DS-2019 should be returned to you. You will need to have it with you to show when you arrive at a U.S. port of entry. Related Information About Your Visa Entering the U.S. in a Scholar Status Online Nonimmigrant Visa Application (DS-160) About DS-160 What is a U.S. Visa? SEVIS fee receipt I-94 Arrival Record Information about Visa Denials Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close