Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Getting Started For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting Your First Arrival (J Scholars) Reporting Your First Arrival (J Scholars) Welcome to Columbia University! We're happy you arrived. If you're a J scholar new to Columbia, you need to report your arrival to us by submitting the online SEVIS Report form. This is very important! This action will activate your Columbia SEVIS record when we update it. Expand all Collapse all Do not report: If your DS-2019 was not issued by Columbia If you received your DS-2019 from another J-1 Exchange Visitor program sponsor, such as IIE for Fulbright, follow their guidance for reporting your arrival to them. For your J-2 dependents Their records are automatically activated with yours. However, you should check to see that their I-94 arrival/departure record to the U.S. is accurate. They should be admitted with the notation of "J-2 until D/S". D/S refers to "duration of status". How to Report Complete the following steps within your first week after entering the U.S for the first time with this Columbia DS-2019. Gather your documents and information ✓ Your passport ✓ Your DS-2019 form Only if issued by Columbia, which means Columbia University is listed in Section 2 of your DS-2019. ✓ Your electronic I-94 arrival record This was created when you entered the U.S. ✓ Your local address--even if it is temporary Include your apartment number, if applicable, and the postal zip code. Log in to Compass to report your arrival There are two ways to log in to Compass: with a UNI and without a UNI. The UNI consists of your initials plus an arbitrary number, e.g. AB123, and is part of your Columbia email address. Learn more about your UNI on the Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) website. Expand all Collapse all How to Log in to Compass With a UNI A. Log in to Compass with your UNI and password to report your arrival For current employees and Visiting Scholars who have an active UNI and password, use your UNI and password to login. Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside J-1 Scholars ISSO-CUMC J-1 Scholars Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Without a UNI If do not yet have a UNI, follow these instructions: A. Receive your PID Within 30 days of your DS-2019 start date, your ISSO Faculty and Scholar Services team will send you an ISSO PID. This is an internal ISSO identification number that you will use for this purpose only. Is it within 10 days of your DS-2019 start date and you have not received your University Identification Number yet? Contact the correct Faculty and Scholar Services Team below: ISSO Morningside Email ISSO Morningside ISSO-CUMC Email ISSO-CUMC Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. B. Enter Your PID in the "University Identification Number" Box Go to the Limited Services PIN Lookup page and enter your PID in the "University Identification Number" box to request a Limited Services PIN. You will receive a confirmation on your browser screen that your request was successfully processed. C. Receive your Limited Access PIN Your Limited Access PIN is sent to the e-mail address you provided to your department. Did not receive your Limited Access PIN? If you do not receive your Limited Access PIN within a few minutes, please check your SPAM folder. If you still do not receive it, please email us and be sure to include your PID and your preferred email address in the body of the email. In the subject line write “Limited Access PIN”: ISSO Morningside Email ISSO Morningside ISSO-CUMC Email ISSO-CUMC Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. D. Complete and submit the SEVIS Report form Make sure you have your PID, Date of Birth and Limited Access PIN ready. Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside J-1 Scholars ISSO-CUMC J-1 Scholars Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Related Information Guidelines to Maintaining Legal Status Your First Week Resources for New Scholars I-94 Arrival Record Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close