Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visa Characteristics Unlike other visa types, the J-1 Exchange Visitor Program has multiple purposes and categories. The Exchange Visitor Program (EVP) is administered by the US Department of State to foster educational and cultural mutual exchange. The EVP supports the health and well-being of its participants. This section serves as an overview of J-1 regulations relevant to professors and researchers, not to J-1 Student Interns. To learn more about J-1 Student Interns, visit our J-1 Student Intern overview. On this page: J-1 Scholar (Professors and Researchers) Categories J-1 Regulations 12 and 24 Month Bars Two-Year Home Residency Requirement J-1 Scholar (Professors and Researchers) Categories Within the J-1 Exchange Visitor Program, there are two categories commonly used at Columbia. Each particular category governs the terms and duration of the exchange. Category Researcher/Professor Description Individuals who come to Columbia primarily for the purpose of conducting research, lecturing, or clinical observation. This includes the two types below: Maximum Duration Category Description Individuals employed by Columbia University with an academic appointment. Maximum Duration Up to 5 continuous years Category Description Individuals who come to Columbia to conduct independent research with a Visiting Scholar/Scientist designation. Maximum Duration Normally one year Category Short Term Scholar Description Individuals who come for the same purposes as described above but limited to a duration of 6 months or less Maximum Duration 6 months J-1 Regulations The following regulations apply to both J-1 categories: Health Insurance Requirement Learn more here. English Language Proficiency Departments must evaluate each J-1 exchange visitor’s English language proficiency as part of the selection process to ensure the level is adequate to enable a productive experience and to support the visitor’s well-being, health and safety while here. Learn more. 12 and 24 Month Bars There might be a wait time before a professor or scholar may begin their program at Columbia if they have been in the U.S. in a J-1 category. The category is listed is section 4 of the DS-2019. These wait times are referred to as the 12 and 24-month bars. The J-1 Exchange Visitor program supports its underlying premise of fostering mutual exchange by preventing immediate repeat participation through these bars. The bars do not apply to anyone coming from or to a short-term scholar category. The 12-Month Bar An individual is not eligible for the J-1 category of professor or research scholar if he or she has been physically present in the United States in J-1 or J-2 status for all or part of the twelve-month period immediately preceding the intended start date of a program unless: The participant is transferring to the sponsor's program and has not exceeded the maximum allowed time of five years The participant is transferring to the sponsor's program and has not exceeded the maximum allowed time of five years The participant's presence in the United States was of less than six months duration; or The participant's presence in the United States was of less than six months duration; or The participant's presence in the United States was pursuant to a short-term scholar exchange activity. The participant's presence in the United States was pursuant to a short-term scholar exchange activity. The 24-Month Bar Those who complete a J-1 or J-2 program, regardless of the duration of their program, are barred for two years from beginning a new J-1 research scholar/professor program. This bar does not apply to those who are in the J-1 short term scholar category. Two-Year Home Residency Requirement This requirement, also known as 212(e), does not apply to all J-1s. If subject, it means the J-1 individual (and J-2 dependents) are required to fulfill this requirement by returning to the country of nationality or last legal permanent residence for a cumulative period of at least two years (24 months) before being eligible to obtain H-1B, L, Permanent Residency status or changing visa status within the U.S. The two-year home residency requirement applies for one or more of the following three reasons: Government Funding – If the scholar is receiving government funding from the U.S. or the government of their nationality or last residence. Skills List– If the area of expertise and training is determined by home country as being in short supply and is listed on the U.S. government’s skills list. Graduate Medical Training – If the scholar received a medical degree or participated in a medical residence program/fellowship in the U.S. Being subject to this requirement does not prevent a return in another visa status (for example as a tourist or F-1 student) at any time. Such a change of visa status, however, can occur only through international travel that involves either obtaining a new visa, or, in the case of Canadians who are visa exempt, admission to the U.S. at the port of entry in the new status. FAQs Expand all Collapse all How can the J-1 exchange visitor know if they are subject? Generally, you are subject to 212(e) if there is a notation on the J-1 entry visa and/or on the lower section of your DS-2019, but sometimes it may be unclear if the requirement applies. In such situations, the J-1 exchange visitor may request an Advisory Opinion from the Department of State. An Advisory Opinion is a review of your exchange visitor program documents to determine if you are subject to this requirement. Learn more on the Advisory Opinions webpage. Is it possible to get a waiver of the two-year Home residency requirement? The J-1 exchange visitor may be able to obtain a waiver of the requirement by applying to the Waiver Review Division. The Waiver Review Division will review the request and will make a recommendation to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) either for or against a waiver. It is the DHS which makes the final decision, although in most cases it will accept the recommendation of the Waiver Review Division. See instructions for applying for a waiver on the Department of State website. How does the 212(e) requirement affect J-2 dependents? If the J-1 exchange visitor is subject to the 2-Year Home Country requirement, any J-2 dependents are subject as well. If the J-1 exchange visitor obtains a waiver, J-2 dependents are included. If the J-1 exchange visitor marries a U.S. citizen, are they automatically waived from fulfilling the 212(e) requirement? No, marriage to a U.S. citizen does not suffice for a waiver. The J-1 exchange visitor still needs to apply for a waiver if eligible under any of the criteria. After a waiver has been granted Once a J-1 exchange visitor has obtained a waiver of the two-year home residency requirement, they are no longer be eligible for a J-1 extension or transfer, or for a new J-1 entry visa to be issued by a consulate abroad. If you will be applying to renew your J-1 entry visa at a U.S. Consulate abroad for your current program, you may also face additional scrutiny by the consular officer. Please discuss your future plans with an adviser before beginning the process of applying for a waiver. A waiver alone does not extend one's stay in the U.S. All waiver application procedures are time-consuming. The J-1 exchange visitor needs to be aware that it may take up to a year or longer to obtain a waiver. Related Information Sponsoring a J-1 Visiting Scholar Sponsoring a J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment Sponsoring a J-1 Student Intern J-1 Exchange Visitors Skills List J-1 Two-Year Home Residency Requirement Advisory Opinion Waiver of the Two-Year Home Residency Requirement Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close