Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Getting Started For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Your First Weeks (Scholars) Your First Weeks (Scholars) Your First Weeks (Scholars) Moving to a new city and a new country is very exciting—and can also be confusing and exhausting! In the first few weeks, there are many new things to learn about and a lot to do. This information should help you as you settle in. What to Do in Your First Weeks in the U.S. For J-1 Scholars For H-1B / O-1 / TN / E-3 Employees J-1 Scholars Expand all Collapse all Report Your Arrival The most important thing you need to do soon after you arrive in the U.S. is to report your arrival online. This is a government requirement and will activate your SEVIS record. Your SEVIS record has to be active when you apply for a Social Security Number. The online form meets the requirement—you do not need to report your arrival in person. Apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) If you are going to work at Columbia, an SSN is a required part of the paperwork to get paid. J-1 scholars are eligible to apply for an SSN without employment, but it is not required. Learn how to apply for an SSN. Be Sure You've Met Your Health Insurance Requirement Your health insurance requirement applies to everyone in J status. This includes all family members who may be with you as J-2 dependents. Contact Your Consulate in NYC Let them know you’re here. This is optional but recommended. There are more than 100 consulates in NYC not including the Missions to the UN, Trade Commissions, Cultural Delegations, etc. Attend J-1 Scholar Orientation We provide orientation sessions throughout the academic year to accommodate the varying times of arrival. These sessions provide an opportunity for you to meet other new scholars as well as international scholar advisers. You will receive an invitation by email. Please review our Events page for a full list of orientation sessions. Meanwhile, you may review our J-1 orientation playlist at any time. We will cover: Overview of Visa Documents Maintaining your “J” Status SEVIS Registration, Travel, Extensions, Transfers 2-year Home Residency Requirement - 212(e) Health Insurance Requirement Social Security Numbers and Incidental Payment J-2 Dependents ScholarNews communications and E-resources How to contact us We look forward to meeting you soon! Learn about More Resources (Housing, Banking, Phone Services, and More) Review Resources for Scholars where you will find information about finding housing, setting up a bank account, purchasing phone plans, and many more resources available to you during your time at Columbia. H-1B / O-1 / TN / E-3 Employees Expand all Collapse all Contact Your Department Check with your hiring department for procedures for new employees. Apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) If you are going to work at Columbia, an SSN is a required part of the paperwork to get paid. Learn how to apply for an SSN. Contact Your Consulate in NYC Let them know you’re here. This is optional but recommended. There are more than 100 consulates in NYC not including the Missions to the UN, Trade Commissions, Cultural Delegations, etc. Learn about More Resources (Housing, Banking, Phone Services, and More) Review Resources for Scholars where you will find information about finding housing, setting up a bank account, purchasing phone plans, and many more resources available to you during your time at Columbia. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close