Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Visas and Travel For Students Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Traveling Soon? Learn which documents you need to bring with you. globe icon Traveling Outside the U.S. home icon Traveling Within the U.S. exclamation-circle icon Troubleshooting Potential Problems Traveling Outside the U.S. Review Visa and Vaccination/Quarantine Requirements for Your Destination If you're traveling to a country other than your home -- including international cruises -- check the website of your destination's embassy or NY-based consulate to learn about their visa and COVID-19 requirements for visitors. If needed, request your enrollment certification through SSOL. Follow CUIT Data Security Guidelines for International Travel CUIT (Technology Information) has compiled important considerations for the Columbia University community for protecting data securitywhen you travel. Review Columbia's Global Travel Tips The GlobalTravel website centralizes information and tools for all members of the Columbia community whose study, research, or teaching involves international travel. Review what to expect when you return to a U.S. Port of Entry Visit Step 2 of our Entering the U.S. page (for students) as a reminder of what to expect. Travel Documents This section is for currently enrolled students and graduates in F/J status engaged in F-1 OPT or J-1 AT.. If will be entering the U.S. for the first time as a Columbia student please refer to our Entering the U.S. page. If you have graduated and are on OPT or the STEM OPT Extension, please refer to our page on Travel During F-1 OPT. Expand all Collapse all F-1 Students 1 Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. 2 Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 3 Unexpired F-1 visa (Canadians are exempt from visa requirement) 4 Unexpired I-20 with valid travel signature. The signature on page 2 must be less than 12 months old on the date you return. Learn how to get a travel signature, if needed. 5 Recommended, but not required: SEVIS Fee Receipt. Look under "Check I-901 Status". 6 Recommended, but not required: Academic Certification from the Registrar's office, which verifies dates of attendance, award of degree, and/or student enrollment status (full-time or part-time) by semester. You can request this through your SSOL record. * If you're on Post-Completion OPT, including STEM OPT and Cap-Gap Extensions, go to the Travel During F-1 OPT page for information. F-2 Dependents 1. Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. 2. F-2 dependent's unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 3. F-2 dependent's unexpired F-2 visa (Canadians are exempt from visa requirement) 4. Unexpired F-2 dependent I-20 with a valid travel signature. The travel signature on page 2 is valid for 12 months if the F-1 principal is a currently-enrolled student, 6 months if the F-1 principal is on OPT. Learn how to get a travel signature, if needed. 5. If traveling without the F-1 principal: Copy of F-1 principal's most recent I-94 arrival record as evidence of their F-1 status in the U.S. J-1 Students 1. Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. 2. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 3. Unexpired J-1 visa (Canadians are exempt from visa requirement) 4. Unexpired Form DS-2019 with valid travel signature on lower right portion under "travel validation". The travel signature is valid for 12 months or until the end date on the DS-2019, whichever is earlier. Learn how to get a travel signature, if needed. 5. Recommended, but not required: SEVIS Fee Receipt. Look under "Check I-901 Status". 6. Recommended, but not required: Academic Certification from the Registrar's office, which verifies dates of attendance, award of degree, and/or student enrollment status (full-time or part-time) by semester. You can request this through your SSOL record. J-1 Academic Training 1. Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. 2. Unexpired passport valid until at least 6 months into the future 3. Unexpired J-1 visa (Canadians are exempt from visa requirement) 4. Unexpired Form DS-2019 with valid travel signature on lower right portion under "travel validation". The travel signature is valid for 12 months or until the DS-2019 end date, whichever is earlier. Learn how to obtain a travel signature, if needed. 5. Recommended, but not required: SEVIS Fee Receipt. Look under "Check I-901 Status". 6. Recommended, but not required: Letter from your employer, such as a job letter offer. J-2 Student Dependents 1. Proof of full vaccination and negative COVID-19 test checked by airline pre-departure. Limited exceptions apply. Complete the Vaccine Travel Assessment to confirm you have what you need. 2. J-2 dependent's unexpired passport 3. J-2 dependent's unexpired F-2 visa (Canadians are exempt from visa requirement) 4. Unexpired Form DS-2019 with valid travel signature on lower right portion under "travel validation". The travel signature is valid for 12 months or until the DS-2019 end date, whichever is earlier. Learn how to get a travel signature, if needed. 5. If traveling without J-1 principal: Copy of J-1 principal's most recent I-94 arrival record Want to see more? Watch our short international travel overview video. ISSO Travel Video Traveling Within the U.S. Domestic travel includes travel to any of the 50 states or travel to the U.S. territories (Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa). Carry your documents with you in case you need to show evidence of your legal immigration status. 1 Unexpired Passport valid at least six months into the future 2 Unexpired I-20/DS-2019 3 Print-out of your most recent I-94 admission record Troubleshooting Potential Problems Expand all Collapse all 1. Your U.S. visa has expired OR will expire before your return Generally, you need an unexpired U.S. visa to return to the U.S. There are two exceptions: Canadians are exempt from the visa requirement (but do require an I-20/DS-2019). When you return return to the U.S. from Canada, Mexico, or an "Adjacent Island" you may be eligible for "automatic revalidation". Visit this webpage to learn about these special provisions. U.S. visas cannot be obtained in the United States. You can apply for a new visa only at a U.S.consulate or embassy, so be mindful of visa application procedures and the time needed for visa processing when you make your travel plans. Expand all Collapse all 2. You're already abroad and you don't have your I-20/DS-2019 with you OR your travel signature has expired or will expire before your return Request a new I-20/DS-2019 Your new form will have an updated travel signature on it. Follow the instructions on our Travel Signatures webpage. Too late to receive your new I-20/DS-2019? You may have a problem being allowed to board by your airline at departure if you don’t have your COE (I-20/DS-2019) with you. If you have your I-20/DS-2019 but the travel signature is expired, they may be more lenient about permitting you to fly. Expand all Collapse all 3. You're arriving in the U.S. without all required documentation Prepare for "Secondary Inspection" at Port of Entry If you arrive in the U.S. without your COE or with an expired travel signature, you will likely be subject to additional screening by CBP (Customs and Border Protection) to verify your valid student status. We recommend you carry documentation that can demonstrate your full-time student status, such as a printed copy of your registration status from SSOL. The CBP Officer has discretion in admitting you The Officer may admit you: as usual for “D/S” (duration of status) with a warning to have required documentation with you the next time you travel, or for 30 days with form I-515A. In this case, be sure you have your passport stamped F-1 or J-1. After arrival, check that your electronic I-94 arrival record shows your admission in student status. Contact the ISSO as soon as possible (and before the I-94 expiration date) with a copy of the I-515 so we can assist you in correcting your record. Related Information Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints Applying For a Visa Returning from Canada, Mexico, and the Adjacent Islands Study and Research Abroad with Student Status Government FAQs on F-1 Re-entry What to Do if You Get an I-515 SEVIS Fee Receipt Travelers to the U.S. Require Proof of Vaccination Contact Us Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close