Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Sponsoring or Extending: Sponsoring or Extending a TN Sponsoring or Extending a TN TN status is available to Canadian and Mexican citizens who are coming to the U.S. to engage in specified professional activities under provisions of the Trade USMCA treaty. On this page Eligibility Before You Sponsor or Extend How to Sponsor or Extend Citizens of Canada Citizens of Mexico Eligibility TN sponsorship requires the employee to be: ✓ a Canadian or Mexican citizen. ✓ coming to the U.S. to engage in in specified professional activities under provisions of the Trade USMCA treaty that require at least a baccalaureate (bachelor's) degree or appropriate credentials demonstrating status as a professional. Salaried teaching or research positions generally qualify. For other types of positions, please contact the ISSO for guidance on eligibility. ✓ performing employer-specific duties as described in the employer’s letter. ✓ be offered TN-eligible employment. Part-time employment is permitted. Before You Sponsor or Extend There are two ways an employee may acquire TN status: Canadian Citizens Directly at a U.S. border Mexican Citizens If outside the U.S., must first apply for a visa stamp at a U.S. Consulate Canadian Citizens Through a petition to USCIS filed by Columbia Mexican Citizens Through a petition to USCIS filed by Columbia (in certain circumstances) How to Sponsor or Extend CUIMC departments should contact ISSO-CUIMC. Citizens of Canada Option 1: Applying through admission at a U.S. border. Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to initiate an online application for TN sponsorship. Prepare a letter for your employee printed on department letterhead. An individual may not enter the U.S. in TN status more than a week in advance of the employment start date and your letter should not be dated more than 30 days before your employee presents it at the border. Use this sample letter. Applicant for a TN visa at U.S. port of entry must provide the following documentation: Valid Canadian passport; Signed department letter; Academic qualifications (Customs and Border Protection (CBP) may require seeing the originals); $50 admission fee and a $6 fee for the I-94 card Upon admission in TN status, the CBP officer will: ✓ stamp the passport indicating admission in TN status until the end date on your letter offering employment. ✓ issue a Form I-94 Arrival / Departure Record either as a paper card and/or electronically at an air or sea port. * Be sure to have your TN employee check their electronic I-94 arrival/departure record for accuracy a day after admission. Option 2: Filing through USCIS Service Center. This option involves the preparation and filing of a TN petition through USCIS. There is a USCIS filing fee of $460 for the I-129 petition, and a $2,500 fee for Premium Processing. Because this option is more document-intensive and requires USCIS filing fees, it is rarely used for Canadian citizens. If traveling to Canada is not an option, please contact your ISSO Faculty and Scholar Services adviser to discuss how best to proceed. Citizens of Mexico Unlike Canadian citizens, Mexicans are not able to apply for admission directly at a U.S. port of entry. Option 1: Applying through U.S. consular post Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to initiate an online application for TN sponsorship. Prepare a letter for your employee printed on department letterhead. Use this sample letter. Applicant for a TN visa at U.S. consular post must provide the following documentation: Valid Mexican passport; Signed department letter; Academic qualifications (originals may be required) Upon admission in TN status, the CBP officer will: ✓ stamp the passport indicating admission in TN status until the end date on your letter offering employment. ✓ issue a Form I-94 Arrival/Departure Record either as a paper card and/or an electronic record. * Be sure to have your TN employee check their electronic I-94 arrival/departure record for accuracy a day after admission. Option 2: Filing through USCIS Service Center. This option involves the preparation and filing of a TN petition through USCIS. There is a USCIS filing fee of $460 for the I-129 petition, and a $2,500 fee for Premium Processing. Due to the requirement to schedule a visa appointment, in limited circumstances, it may be advisable to prepare and file through the USCIS Service Center. Please contact your ISSO Faculty and Scholar Services adviser to discuss how best to proceed. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close