Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Getting Started For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 We are currently accepting applications for Summer and Fall 2022 Processing Time: ISSO Morningside: 4 weeks ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC): 4 weeks COVID-19 FAQs Find answers to frequently asked immigration-related questions. Newly Admitted Student FAQs On this Page list-ul icon Eligibility bookmark icon Before You Apply sticky-note icon Supporting Documents Checklist question-circle icon Questions What is a COE? A Certificate of Eligibility (COE) is an I-20 (F-1 status) or DS-2019 (J-1 status). You will need a COE: address-book icon to apply for a visa at a U.S. embassy or consulate. plane icon to enter the U.S. for the first time in F-1 or J-1 status and to return to the U.S. from all trips abroad during your program. exchange icon to apply for a change of status from another nonimmigrant status. Learn more about changing to student status in the U.S. clone icon to show as evidence of your F-1 or J-1 status after arrival in the U.S. Eligibility list-ul icon To qualify for a COE you must: be admitted to a full-time program of study (and maintain full-time enrollment every term) document the financial resources to cover tuition, fees and living expenses of the first academic year and have a plan to finance any additional time. Refer to our Estimated Expenses by School of Admission. child icon F-1 Status or J-1 Status Most students come to the U.S. in F-1 status. If you receive at least 51% of your total expenses through a scholarship you may be eligible for J-1. Review our Comparison Chart to understand the benefits and restrictions. If you’re eligible for both F-1 and J-1 status, we recommend choosing F-1. If you are receiving a Columbia scholarship you are not required to obtain J-1 status. Before You Apply Do any of these situations apply to you? Current F-1 Students at Another U.S. School Go to the Applying for Your Transfer I-20 page. Current Columbia Students Beginning a New Academic Program If you are a current student at Columbia -- or on Post-Completion OPT after completing a program at Columbia -- you should not apply through this page. Follow the instructions on our beginning a new program page. Former Students Returning After a Temporary Absence from Columbia If you are a former student returning after a temporary leave from Columbia, you should not apply through this page. Follow the instructions on our leave of absence page. Studying English at Columbia's American Language Program (ALP) Apply for your ALP I-20. Use the I-20 from ALP to apply for your F-1 visa and to enter the U.S. Before you complete your ALP program, ALP will send you instructions on how to transfer your ALP SEVIS record to the ISSO and apply for an I-20 for your program. Studying English at another school in the U.S. Get your I-20 from your English as a Second Language (ESL) school. Apply for your F-1 visa and enter the U.S. with your ESL school’s I-20. After your ESL program is complete, follow the F-1 transfer instructions to transfer your SEVIS record to the ISSO. Current J-1 Students at Another U.S. School Go to the J-1 Student Transferring to Columbia page. Bringing a Spouse / Child Your spouse (and children under 21 years of age) will need a dependent COE to apply for an F-2 or J-2 visa. You will need to provide proof of additional funding beyond your personal expenses. Your dependents’ information will be part of your application and their COEs will be processed and sent to you at the same time. Planning to Get Married If you are not yet married at the time of your application but will be married before you come, you may include your future spouse in the application. However, you must be legally married at the time your spouse applies for an F-2 or J-2 visa. Bringing a Partner If you are in a relationship but not legally married, your partner is not eligible for a dependent visa, but may apply for a B-2 visitor visa to accompany you under a provision for Cohabitating Partners described in the Foreign Affairs Manual for visa officers. Look for 9 FAM 402.2-4(B)(5). How to Apply for your I-20/DS-2019 For an overview of the process, watch our short video below! list-ul icon 1. Prepare your documents laptop icon 2. Log in to Compass to apply for your I-20 / DS-2019 wechat icon 3. Receive I-20 / DS-2019 address-card icon 4. Apply for Your Visa at a U.S. Consulate 1. Prepare your documents Supporting Documents Checklist 1. A copy of admission letter/email 2. The identification page of your passport 3. Financial Certification Form (Refer to the Estimated Expenses for your program) 4. Evidence of Financial Support (Refer to the Funding Documents Checklist) 5. Passport identification page of each dependent, if applicable 6. If you're currently in the U.S., a copy of your I-94 arrival record 7. COE Processing Fee: Have a credit card available to pay the $109 fee. The processing fee is required and cannot be waived. 2. Log in to Compass to apply for your I-20/DS-2019 There are two ways to log in to Compass: with a PID or with a UNI. Apply with your PID Your PID is the 9-digit number beginning with “C” you receive from your admissions office (e.g. C123456789). If you don't have a PID, contact your admissions office. Use your PID to request a Limited Services PIN. Receive your Limited Services PIN at the e-mail address you used to apply to Columbia. Log in to Compass using your PID, Date of Birth and Limited Services PIN by clicking the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside - Apply with Your PID ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) - Apply with Your PID Apply with your UNI (Morningside students only) Your UNI is assigned to you by your school & consists of your initials plus a number, e.g. AB1234. It is part of your Columbia email address. Learn more about your UNI: Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) website. ISSO Morningside - Apply with Your UNI Compass Login Help Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Expand all Collapse all PID Login Issues I did not receive my Limited Services PIN If you do not receive your Limited Services PIN within a few minutes, please check your SPAM folder. If you still do not receive it, please email the correct ISSO campus and be sure to include your PID and your preferred email address in the body of the email. In the subject line write “Limited Services PIN”: ISSO Morningside [email protected] ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) [email protected] Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. I received an error message when requesting my Limited Services PIN If you were recently accepted to Columbia, your record may not yet be in our system. Make sure you have accepted your offer of admission and paid your deposit, if applicable. If you cannot access the system after 10 business days, please email the correct ISSO campus: ISSO Morningside [email protected] ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) [email protected] Not sure of your campus? Check our Campus school list. Expand all Collapse all UNI Login Issues Don't know your UNI? Haven't activated your UNI? Received an error message when you logged in? Don't worry! You can follow the steps above (With a PID) to login to Compass without a UNI. 3. Receive your I-20/DS-2019 F-1 Students: We will send your I-20 to you electronically by email. J-1 Students: We are not permitted to send DS-2019 forms by email and must ship the physical document to you. Shipping instructions will be provided in the application. clock icon Processing Time Complete applications will be processed per the processing time indicated above. at icon Check your email We will email you if we need additional information. file-text icon Your SEVIS ID You will receive your SEVIS ID when your I-20/DS-2019 has been issued. eye icon Review Please review the information on your I-20/DS-2019 for accuracy when it arrives. 4. Apply for your visa at a U.S. Consulate Questions? If you have questions not addressed on this page, email the correct ISSO campus. Not sure of your campus? Check our Campus school list. ISSO Morningside [email protected] ISSO CU Medical Center (CUIMC) [email protected] Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close