Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Getting Started For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Transferring to Columbia (H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Scholar) Transferring to Columbia (H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Scholar) Currently in H-1, O-1, TN, or E-3 Status If you are currently sponsored by another employer and will be coming to conduct research or teach at Columbia, be aware that the word “transfer” is not a completely accurate description of the process because your immigration sponsorship is specific to your employer. You need Columbia’s sponsorship You cannot work at Columbia based on another employer’s sponsorship. If you would like to continue to be employed in the same status, our affiliation at Columbia must be consistent with the immigration regulations governing your current visa status. If eligible, you will need to be sponsored by Columbia before you can be employed here. Staying in the U.S. between employers and extending your status If you want to come to Columbia from your current employment without traveling abroad, you must be in valid visa status at the time Columbia will initiate a petition on your behalf. This means that we will file an I-129 petition (for H-1B/O-1/TN) with USCIS for new employment (because you are new to Columbia even if you are working elsewhere) that requests USCIS to extend your current status. The petition will require usual supporting documentation for H-1B/O-1/TN employment as well as documents that establish that you are currently maintaining your status in the same classification. You may continue to use an unexpired entry visa If you have an unexpired entry visa in your passport that was obtained with previous employment, you will be able to continue to use it in conjunction with documentation of USCIS approval of Columbia’s petition. We must evaluate each case individually We cannot advise you directly until your academic department has been in touch with us first. When you are offered employment by your department, be sure to inform them of your current status and when asked, be prepared to send them a copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record and other relevant documentation relating to your current visa status. Expand all Collapse all Frequently Asked Question (FAQ) How soon may I start working for Columbia after you file my petition? It depends. H-1B status You may be able to benefit from H-1B portability, which allows you to begin working for a new employer in H1B status as soon as the employer files the I-129 Petition while the petition is pending. O-1, TN. or E-3 status You need to wait until the petition has been approved. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close