Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors Sponsoring and Extending a Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Sponsoring and Extending a Visiting Scholar Without J-1 The application process for scholars without a J-1 Visa Document is detailed below. On this page: Before You Sponsor How to Sponsor Before You Extend How to Extend Expand all Collapse all Before You Sponsor A Visiting Scholar is a scholar who is coming to Columbia to do independent, non-collaborative research only. See the University's description of a Visiting Scholar in the Faculty Handbook. A Visiting Scholar is not ... a scholar conducting collaborative research. If collaborating, an officer-level research appointment is appropriate. a visitor coming to Columbia to perform a service for a very short period and leave—such as to conduct a workshop or give a lecture. If the visitor needs an immigration status allowing the visitor to be paid, contact us so we may determine which status is appropriate. Sponsorship/Extension Length The Visiting Scholar Designation is normally held for up to one year. The duration of the designation cannot exceed the duration of the scholar’s legal status in the United States. Application Overview You will first need to obtain written approval of the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs for the Visiting Scholar designation. After obtaining the Provost's Office approval, we will determine if J-1 sponsorship is required. We will issue the UNI within 5 days of a complete application. Application Timeline Submit application 3 months before the start date. This allows time for us to confirm the appropriate visa classification for the visit. B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Please review the University policy. How to Sponsor CUIMC departments should contact ISSO-CUIMC. Gather your documents ✓ Document Cover Sheet Description ✓ Document Curriculum Vitae Description ✓ Document ID page of the passport or other state-issued ID Description ✓ Document I-94 arrival/departure record or a Certificate of Eligibility (e.g. I-20/DS-2019) Description If not a U.S. citizen or Permanent Resident. ✓ Document Provost’s Office approval of designation. See the Provost's Office Process for the Designation of Visiting Scholars/Scientists. Description Printout of the email from [email protected] confirming the dates for which the designation has been approved ✓ Document Other Description e.g. invitation letter from academic department. Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to submit all three parts of your application This application consists of 3 parts. All 3 parts must be completed before we receive your application. Contact us if you are a department administrator requesting access to the SSP. Part 1 Completed by the department (contact us if your UNI and password isn't working). Part 2 Completed by the scholar (per the scholar’s email address entered in Part 1). Part 3 Completed by the department (the department user will get an email when the scholar completes Part 2). Expand all Collapse all Learn more about the SSP Process To learn about the process and what each part covers, please visit our SSP Overview page. Help For online help and tutorials, visit our SSP Department Guide. Receive the Visiting Scholar UNI Within 5 business days of receiving a complete application, we will send the UNI with activation instructions to your scholar by email. Do not put Visiting Scholar data into DIA! We authorize UNI creation and provide your scholar with guidance on ID card issuance. Visiting Scholars do not appear in the Columbia University directory. Extending a Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Expand all Collapse all Before You Extend Length of Time All extension requests must first be approved by the Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Appointments before proceeding with ISSO. How to Extend CUIMC departments should contact ISSO-CUIMC. Gather your documents and information ✓ Document Cover Sheet Description ✓ Document Provost’s Office approval of extension Description Printout of the email from [email protected] confirming approval of the new end date ✓ Document most recent I-94 arrival record Description If not a U.S. citizen or Permanent Resident. ✓ Document additional supporting documentation Description If applicable. Email us the supporting documents as one pdf file We will contact the scholar when the UNI account has been extended Within 5 business days of receiving a complete application, we will send the Visiting Scholar confirmation of the UNI extension and guidance on extending the ID card. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close