Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Maintaining Your Status For Students Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) All F-1/J-1 students are required to enroll full-time every semester, with very limited exceptions. A reduced course load (RCL) is permission to be registered below full-time during a semester. Final Term Exception You are allowed to be less than full-time in the final term of your degree program if you do not need a full-time course load to complete your degree requirements. You do not need to request permission for an RCL and no further action is required. Eligibility to request permission for an RCL You need to request and be granted permission from us for an RCL prior to dropping below full-time enrollment if one of the exceptions below applies to you. 1) Academic difficulties during your degree program This exception may be used one time only and you must resume a full course of study at the next available semester. initial difficulty with the English language (first semester) initial difficulty with reading requirements (first semester) unfamiliarity with U.S. teaching methods (first semester) improper course level placement. This means not having the prerequisites or preparation for a course and is not limited to the first semester 2) Temporary illness or medical/mental health difficulties You may apply for an RCL on the basis of a temporary health situation for one semester. If additional time is needed, a new application with new documentation is required for any subsequent semester. You are limited by regulation to a total of 12 months of approved RCL time during your degree program. How to Request an RCL Gather your documents ✓ Document Most recent I-94 arrival record Description If you are currently in the U.S. only ✓ Document A letter of support or printed email from your academic adviser confirming the circumstances and recommending the reduced course load (RCL) Description You will need his or her contact information (name, email address, and phone number). ✓ Document Documentation from a medical doctor, doctor of osteopathy, or a licensed clinical psychologist recommending a reduced course load due to illness or medical condition. The letter must also specify the time period recommended for the reduced enrollment. Description Health reason only Log in to Compass with your UNI and password to submit your application Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside F-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC F-1 Students ISSO Morningside J-1 Students ISSO-CUIMC J-1 Students Contact ISSO-CUIMC Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. We will contact you Allow up to 5 business days for us to review your application. We will notify you by email when your request has been processed. Contact your school (after approval) Once you are approved, check with your school to determine how you may drop your course(s) if it is past the add/drop period. Related Information Guidelines to Maintaining Student Status Your Final Term and Beyond Leave of Absence, Suspension or Withdrawal Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close