Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors Sponsoring and Extending a J-1 Visiting Scholar Sponsoring and Extending a J-1 Visiting Scholar On this page: Before You Sponsor How to Sponsor How to Extend Expand all Collapse all Before You Sponsor A Visiting Scholar is a scholar who is coming to Columbia to do independent, non-collaborative research only. See the University's description of a Visiting Scholar in the Faculty Handbook. A Visiting Scholar is not ... a scholar conducting collaborative research. If collaborating, an officer-level research appointment is appropriate. a visitor coming to Columbia to perform a service for a very short period and leave—such as to conduct a workshop or give a lecture. If the visitor needs an immigration status allowing the visitor to be paid, contact us so we may determine which status is appropriate. Length of Stay Visiting Scholar stay is normally limited to a year. Application Overview You will first need to obtain written approval of the Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Appointments for the Visiting Scholar designation. You will then apply to our office to obtain a DS-2019. We will issue the DS-2019 within 10 business days of a complete application Application Timeline Submit application 3 months before the start date. This allows time for the scholar to obtain a passport (if needed) and apply for a visa at a US Consulate. How to Sponsor a J-1 Visiting Scholar CUIMC departments should contact ISSO-CUIMC. If your scholar is pursuing an undergraduate degree at their home institution, please proceed to the J-1 Student Intern webpage and follow its instructions. Gather your documents ✓ Document Cover Sheet Description ✓ Document Curriculum Vitae (CV) Description ✓ Document Acceptable evidence to prove English language proficiency Description ✓ Document ID page of the passport Description ✓ Document ID Page of the passport for accompanying J-2 family members Description ✓ Document Funding documentation showing ability to cover current estimates (Refer to the Funding Documents Checklist.) Description Scholar, $2,800 per month His/her spouse, $1,000 per month Each child, $500 per month ✓ Document Online Visiting Scholar Administration Fee Payment receipt for the $500 Columbia University J-1 Visiting Scholar fee Description Required only if not being paid by the department ✓ Document DS-2019 form(s) from previous J-1 programs Description If applicable ✓ Document Provost’s Office approval of designation. See the Provost's Office Process for the Designation of Visiting Scholars/Scientists. Description Printout of the email from [email protected] confirming the dates for which the designation has been approved ✓ Document Other Description e.g. invitation letter from department Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to submit all three parts of your application This application consists of 3 parts. All 3 parts must be completed before we receive your application. Contact us if you are a department administrator requesting access to the SSP. Part 1 Completed by the department (contact us if your UNI and password isn't working). Part 2 Completed by the scholar (per the scholar’s email address entered in Part 1). Part 3 Completed by the department (the department user will get an email when the scholar completes Part 2). Expand all Collapse all Learn more about the SSP Process To learn about the process and what each part covers, please visit our SSP Overview page. Help For online help and tutorials, visit our SSP Department Guide. We will contact you Allow up to 5 business days for us to review and process your application. We will notify you by email when your scholar’s new DS-2019 has been shipped. Expand all Collapse all Keep in Mind Scholar UNI and ID Do not put Visiting Scholar data into DIA! We authorize UNI creation and ID card issuance. Visiting Scholars do not appear in the Columbia University directory. How to Extend a J-1 Visiting Scholar Expand all Collapse all Before You Extend Maximum Extension Duration Scholar Type Research Scholar under Visiting Scholar Designation Extension Duration Normally held for up to one year, and may be renewed for no more than one additional year. Scholar Type Short-term Visiting Scholar Extension Duration Limited to a total of 6 months. How to Extend CUIMC departments should contact ISSO-CUIMC. Gather your documents ✓ Document Cover Sheet Description ✓ Document Funding documentation showing ability to cover current estimates for extended periods (Refer to the Funding Documents Checklist.) Description Your scholar’s dependents will be extended for the same duration. Scholar, $2,800 per month His/her spouse, $1,000 per month Each child, $500 per month ✓ Document Online Visiting Scholar Administration Fee Payment receipt for the $500 Columbia University J-1 Visiting Scholar fee Description Required only if the extended period exceeds a 12-month total for the Visiting Scholar's program and if the new fee, if required, is not paid by the department. ✓ Document Provost’s Office approval of extension Description Printout of the email from [email protected] confirming the dates for which the extension has been approved Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to submit all three parts of your application This application consists of 3 parts. All 3 parts must be completed before we receive your application. Contact us if you are a department administrator requesting access to the SSP. Part 1 Completed by the department (contact us if your UNI and password isn't working). Part 2 Completed by the scholar (per the scholar’s email address entered in Part 1). Part 3 Completed by the department (the department user will get an email when the scholar completes Part 2). Expand all Collapse all Learn more about the SSP Process To learn about the process and what each part covers, please visit our SSP Overview page. Help For online help and tutorials, visit our SSP Department Guide. We will contact you Allow up to 5 business days for us to review and process your application. We will email your scholar when we have shipped the extended DS-2019. We will send a copy of the extended DS-2019 to you. Related Information Visiting Scholar Fee Payment Form English Language Proficiency Verification Provost's Office Process for the Designation of Visiting Scholars/Scientists Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close