Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Students F-1 STEM OPT Extension F-1 STEM OPT Extension F-1 STEM OPT Extension If you are currently in your initial period of post-completion OPT and graduated from a degree program on a government-designated list of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields, you are eligible to apply for an additional 24 months of OPT authorization. On this Page question-circle icon What is the STEM OPT Extension? check-square icon Eligibility clock icon Before You Apply listl icon Application Process calendar icon After You Submit Your USCIS Application file-text icon After You Receive Your EAD What is the STEM OPT Extension? The STEM OPT Extension is a 24-month extension of OPT (Optional Practical Training) that is available to students in F-1 status who completed a degree program in a government-approved list of STEM fields. The STEM OPT extension begins the day after the Post-Completion OPT EAD expires. Eligibility Read this chart to see if you are eligible for a OPT STEM Extension. ✓ You currently must be on post-completion OPT, working for a U.S. employer in a job directly related to your major field of study. Keep in mind that STEM OPT employment must be paid; volunteering does not count toward the minimum of 20 hours/week employment. ✓ You must have reported OPT employment using the online report form ✓ Have not had more than 90 days of unemployment during post-completion OPT ✓ You successfully completed a Bachelor’s, Master’s, or doctoral degree in a field on the government's STEM CIP Code List. To check if your degree program is eligible, look at page 1 of your I-20. The code is listed next to your Program Major. ✓ You must have a job or job offer for at least 20 hours/week paid employment from an employer registered with the E-Verify employment verification system ✓ You can not be self-employed Before You Apply Expand all Collapse all You must be in the U.S. at the time you submit your STEM OPT application to USCIS F-1 regulations require you to be in the U.S. in F-1 status at the time you apply for any type of OPT. Your most recent I-94 admission record is among the required documentation. You must apply on time The earliest you may submit an application to the ISSO for your OPT STEM Extension I-20 is 90 days before the end date of your initial period of Post-Completion OPT. Please allow up to 10 business days for processing. The latest USCIS can receive your OPT STEM Extension application is the date your EAD expires, but don't wait until the last minute. You have a limited number of days without employment You are ineligible for a STEM OPT extension if you exceed 90 days without employment during post-completion OPT. You are limited to a total of 150 days without employment during the period encompassing both post-completion OPT and the STEM OPT extension. Example For example, if you had 90 days of unemployment during post-completion OPT, that leaves you with a maximum of 60 days allowed without employment during the 24 months of the STEM OPT extension. If, however, you had accrued 30 days without work during post-completion OPT, you would have up to 120 days during the STEM OPT extension period. Your employer has requirements and responsibilities In addition to being enrolled in E-Verify, your STEM OPT employer: has to abide by certain terms and conditions for participation must provide appropriate training must maintain a bona fide employer-employee relationship with you has reporting obligations to the ISSO. Learn more at our STEM OPT Reporting section below. STEM OPT may take place at a site other than the employer’s principal place of business as long as all of the training obligations are met. Staffing and temporary agencies and consulting firms may seek to employ students under the STEM OPT program, but only if they will be the entity that provides the practical training experience to the student and they have and maintain a bona fide employer-employee relationship with the student. Learn more about this and employer responsibilities from USCIS. Application Process Pay the STEM OPT Administration Fee Gather Your Documents and Information for ISSO Application Use Compass to Submit Your ISSO Application We Will Contact You Receive Your STEM OPT I-20 Submit Your Application Online to USCIS Application Process Pay the STEM OPT Administration Fee Pay the $480 STEM OPT Administration Fee. You remain in F-1 status under Columbia’s sponsorship with an active SEVIS record during your authorized period of 24 months of a STEM OPT extension. After payment, you will receive an email from Cybersource with your STEM OPT Administration Fee receipt. Back to Application Process Gather Your Documents and Information These are the documents you will upload when you login to Compass to submit your application for the STEM OPT Extension I-20. Expand all Collapse all ISSO Document and Information Checklist 1. I-983. Use our sample form to complete the Form I-983 Training Plan. The form must be completed and signed in ink* by you and your employer. Do not upload an editable PDF to the ISSO. You must upload a scanned version of the hard copy document. *Digital signatures are acceptable for the I-983 during the COVID-19 pandemic. 2. Copy of your most recent I-94 Arrival Record (not your travel history), which is evidence of F-1 status. Make sure the record indicates you were admitted until "D/S." 3. Copy of front and back of current Post-Completion OPT EAD. 4. Prior STEM Degree Certification Form (only if the degree was earned at another school). Back to Application Process Use Compass to Submit Your ISSO Application The earliest you can submit your application to the ISSO for your STEM OPT Extension I-20 is 90 days before your OPT expires. Please click the appropriate link below: ISSO Morningside ISSO-CUIMC F-1 Students F-1 Students Not sure of your campus? Check our campus school list. Need help using Compass? Learn more on our Compass User Guide. Back to Application Process We Will Contact You We will send a message to your Columbia email address when your digital STEM OPT I-20 has been processed, which you will need for your USCIS application. Please note that 10 business days is the maximum processing time, not the average, and we will process your request as quickly as possible. Back to Application Process Receive Your STEM OPT I-20 Review your new I-20 for accuracy, including the CIP code next to your Progam Major on page one. Review page 2 to verify the STEM OPT dates, then print and sign page 1. You must submit your application within 60 days after the date this STEM OPT I-20 was issued and before the expiration of your current EAD or it will be denied. Always use your most recent I-20 when you travel. Be aware that the travel signature on page 2 is valid for six months (not 12) when you’re on OPT. Keep all previously issued I-20s. You may need them for future applications. Back to Application Process Submit your STEM OPT I-765 application online through your USCIS account. After you have your STEM OPT I-20, the online application is easy to use. Watch this short video on the many advantages of filing online as compared to mailing a paper application. ISSO highly recommends that you file online, but if you prefer to send a paper application, here is the checklist of documents and USCIS mailing address. The ISSO provides the following tips regarding the OPT application, however, please keep in mind that you are responsible for the accuracy of your application to USCIS and following their step-by-step instructions. Expand all Collapse all 1 Create or Log in to Your USCIS Account Follow instructions for creating a USCIS Online Account, or log in to your USCIS account if you already have one. Select “File a Form Online” and choose “Application for Employment Authorization (I-765)”. Follow the instructions and complete each step in the order they are presented to you. 2 ISSO Tips for the Online Application You will find that the online application is user-friendly, but come back to check if you're not sure about any of these questions. “What is your eligibility category?” Choose “(c)(3)(c) Student STEM Extension. "What is your degree" Write your academic level and the CIP code found on your I-20. "What is your employer's name as listed in E-Verify? Be sure to put the employer's name as listed in E-Verify. “What is your employer's E-Verify company identification number or a valid E-Verify client company identification number?” The E-Verify number is not the employer's EIN. The E-Verify number is generally 4-7 digits. Check with your employer if you're not sure of the number. “What is your reason for applying?” Choose the option “Renewal of my permission to accept employment” “U.S. Mailing Address” Be sure your U.S. mailing address on the I-765 will be valid for at least four - five months. If you do not have an address that will be valid for four - five months, you can enter the name and U.S. address of a friend or family member under “In Care Of Name (if any).” “I-94 Arrival and Departure Record” Copy of your most recent I-94 arrival record (not your travel history). Make sure the record indicates “Class of Admission: F1" and “Admit Until Date: D/S,” which stands for duration of status. “Status at last arrival” Scroll down to “F1 - F1 - Student, Academic Or Language Program.” “What is your A-Number?” This number is listed on your most recent EAD card, under “USCIS #.” “What is your USCIS Account Number?” Enter your USCIS account number if you have it. If not, click the box “I do not have or know my USCIS Online Account Number”. “Evidence: College Degree” A diploma which shows your degree and the date it was awarded. The ISSO highly recommends you also upload your academic transcript as additional evidence of having completed a STEM degree (multiple uploads are allowed). “Evidence: Institutional Accreditation” This is required only if you are applying for a STEM OPT Extension based on a prior degree (i.e. not the OPT degree) “Application Fee” Pay the required application fee. Remember that once you pay the fee, there can be no changes to your application as it will be considered submitted. “Review and Submit” Check that that you are within the 60-day window after the date your STEM OPT Extension I-20 was issued and before the expiration of your OPT EAD card. Do not submit if it is outside this timeframe, and contact the ISSO for assistance. Verify that all information is correct and digitally sign and submit your application. Back to Application Process After You Submit Your STEM OPT Application Expand all Collapse all 1 Follow USCIS and USPS guidelines for tracking your EAD delivery Follow USCIS guidelines for tracking EAD card delivery. Monitor your application status via your USCIS account and sign up for USPS informed delivery to track the delivery of your documents. Normally, you will receive 2 updates from USCIS before the EAD. You do not need to contact us when you receive these two updates. If you receive other communication that requires follow up, contact the ISSO for assistance. 1. I-797 Receipt Notice with a case number. You will receive a case number immediately after submitting the online application. Check for accuracy in case there’s an error in your name or other information that needs to be corrected. 2. I-797 Approval Notice 2 Continue working while your application is pending If you filed an application on time for a STEM extension, you will be able to continue employment while the extension application is pending, until a final decision is made or for 180 days, whichever comes first. Your employer may refer to section 6.4.2 of the I-9 Handbook for Employers under F-1 STEM OPT Extension. *If you are changing employers and your application is still pending, please contact ISSO. ** USCIS is extending flexibilities to OPT applicants whose applications were received between October 1, 2020, through October 31, 2021, and experienced excessive delays in processing. See our OPT FAQs. 3 What to do If USCIS update indicates the EAD was delivered but you didn't receive it Try one of these two methods: Use USPS’ Missing Mail and Lost Package Form to locate your envelope. Visit your local US Post Office and ask them for detailed scanning information about where and when your package was scanned. If USPS lost the EAD, attach a letter from the US Postal Service on official letterhead, stating that the USPS is responsible for the lost EAD, including the contact person from the US Post Office to send an email to the ISSO. Morningside: [email protected] CUIMC: [email protected] After You Receive the STEM OPT EAD Expand all Collapse all STEM OPT Reporting Requirements You and your employer have specific STEM OPT reporting obligations throughout your STEM OPT training period. For details, see our webpage on how to comply with STEM OPT Reporting Requirements every six months. Changing or Adding Employers It is possible to change employers during the STEM OPT extension, or add a second concurrent employer. The same STEM OPT Extension requirements apply for each employment situation. ✓ The new (or additional) employer must be enrolled in E-Verify before you begin to work. ✓ Your employment must be paid for at least 20 hours/week. ✓ You and the new employer must complete a new form I-983 Training Plan for STEM OPT Students and upload it in Compass within 10 days of beginning the new STEM OPT employment. Follow the instructions on the STEM OPT Reporting page. Traveling During the STEM OPT Extension Traveling on OPT STEM Extension? Visit our Travel page for the documentation you need to return to the U.S. Do not travel until you have the STEM OPT EAD. Expiration of Your EAD When your EAD expires, you have a 60 day grace period in which: ✓ to remain in the U.S. to prepare for departure or travel domestically, or ✓ transfer to another school, or ✓ change your visa status You cannot work during the grace period, or leave and return to the U.S. in F-1 status. On the 61st day after the EAD expires, SEVIS automatically completes your F-1 SEVIS record. If you decide to discontinue your STEM OPT before the EAD expires, you do not have a grace period and must report your departure through STEM OPT Reporting. This will complete your F-1 SEVIS record. Related Information STEM OPT Information from DHS USCIS STEM OPT Information Page for Students and Employers DHS I-983 Instructions Form I-983 Sample Form I-983 I-9 Handbook for Employers Exemption from Social Security tax Social Security Information for Employers USCIS on Starting Your Own Business Cap-Gap OPT Extension Traveling on Post-Completion OPT STEM OPT Reporting Requirements F-1 Student Certification of STEM Eligibility based on prior degree at another … Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close