Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Getting Started For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents (Spouse/Children) We hope these resources for spouses and children will guide you and your family through an exciting transition and opportunities for building life-long friendships. ON THIS PAGE address-card icon Employment graduation-cap icon Study heart icon Family Support subway icon Transportation bell icon Personal Safety link icon Related Content EMPLOYMENT check-square icon Eligibility J-2 dependents are eligible to apply for employment authorization with the U.S.immigration agency (USCIS). They can apply for work authorization only after the J-1 has entered the U.S, and may not start to work until the approval is received. Learn more about the J-2 application for work permission. F-2 dependents are not permitted to work in the U.S. in F-2 status. For more visa types and work eligibility, read Spouse/Partner Employment Overview. id-card icon Social Security Numbers (SSNs) Social Security Numbers (SSN) are issued only to those who have authorized employment in the United States. Learn about the application process for SSN. Individuals in F-2 or J-2 status who are not eligible for an SSN may apply for an Individual Taxpayer ID (ITIN) if needed for filing a tax return. STUDY Eligibility For F-2, J-2, H-4, O-3, E-3D, and TD status: ✓ Spouse may engage in part-time study. ✓ Spouse may engage in full-time study (EXCEPT for F-2. A change of status to F-1 is necessary). ✓ Children may study full-time at an elementary and secondary school level (K-12). Additional Resources English Courses. "English as a Second Language" programs, more commonly known as ESL programs, are widely available in the city: American Language Program provides both full-time and part-time courses for different language goals. The Community Language Program (CLP) at Teachers College (TC) offers International Researchers Language Program (IRLP) as well as general English as a Second Language (ESL) classes. Chazen Language Program offers eight-week courses taught by professional instructors in small class sizes. It is held at Columbia Business School's Chazen Institute for Global Business. NY Public Libraries also offer free English classes. Libraries Dependents may use Columbia University libraries with some restrictions. Their library card allows them to read in the libraries but not borrow books. See details of library access for spouses. Dependents may also use the NYC Public Libraries. Get a library card and borrow books and DVDs--it’s free! Enjoy community programming, including lecture and film series of general interest for adults as well as English and computer classes. FAMILY SUPPORT Columbia University’s Office of Work/Life It’s not easy to balance the demands of academic, work, and personal lives--especially in a fast-paced city like NY. Coming from another country adds to the challenge, so see how Office of Work/Life can help. Breastfeeding Support helps support parents and is committed to ensuring that the needs of lactating women are met. The Breastfeeding Support Program is available for mothers at Columbia returning to work, school, or visiting the campus who wish to express milk. Child Care & Schooling supports parents at Columbia University through school placement counseling, child care referrals, a searchable database of New York City area schools, and informational resources for finding childcare and schooling. Additional School & Care Resources Inside Schools.org is an extremely helpful independent guide to NYC public schools that provides practical tools to navigate the city’s school system. Under each type of school (elementary, middle, and high) there is a section called "New to NYC?" which is a great place for you to start. NYC Department of Education is the largest school district in the US, serving 1.1 million students in over 1,800 schools. Their valuable information is available in 83 different languages. The Day Care Council of New York is a diverse membership organization of childcare and family service providers, consumers and advocates. Morningside Playcare provides Mandarin Immersion program for children ages 6 months to 10 years of age through play, creative activities, and exploration of their environment. Playgrounds and Activities Playgrounds in NYC NYC Best Playground NYC Indoor Playgrounds Children's Museum of Manhattan TimeOut NYC: Things to Do With Kids CURBED: Best Things to do in NYC with Kids Mommy Poppins: Get More out of NYC with Kids NYCgo: Family-Friendly NY The New York Times - Arts & Entertainment Guide TRANSPORTATION Subway The subway system is extensive and avoids street traffic. It’s open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. With a total of 656 miles of passenger tracks, it serves 4 of the 5 boroughs of NYC; Staten Island has its own rail service. Buses Buses are a great way to get around when you are not in a hurry. It’s interesting to look out the window and observe the changing neighborhoods. The buses that run closest to Columbia Morningside campus are the M104, M4, M60, and the M5; for the CUIMC campus, the M5, M7 and M100. Each borough has its own bus routes, map and schedule. Metrocards MetroCards are electronic fare cards for use on subways and buses in the five boroughs. Choose between refillable "debit" cards or unlimited weekly and monthly cards. MetroCards are available for purchase at all subway stops. As an alternative, avoid paper cards and pay for the MTA through phones and digital wallets. Learn more on the OMNY website. MTA plans to transition to OMNY only in 2024. Bikes Citi Bike is the nation's largest bike share program, with stations across Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens and Jersey City. Designed for quick trips with convenience in mind, it’s a fun and affordable way to get around town. Taxis (also called taxicabs or cabs) They are yellow or green with a medallion number on top of the roof. If it is lit up and says on-duty, it is available to wave down. There is a metered fare that can be paid with credit card or cash. It is also customary for customers to tip 10-20%. Day Trips Get refreshed by leaving the urban environment and spending more time in nature. The Long Island Railroad and Metro-North offer one-day and overnight get-away packages to get out of the City. NYC Ferry travels to various locations around the city (and even some beaches). And some of the best beaches near NYC can be reached by subway. Travel Apps To find the best travel route between two points, use Google Maps or CityMapper. For a real-time public transportation tracker, you can try out MYmta or Transitapp. For ride-sharing services, Uber and Lyft are commonly used in the city. PERSONAL SAFETY Services and Tips Be well-informed about personal safety. New York presents the same security concerns as any other large city worldwide. In case of an emergency, contact Public Safety. Put the numbers in your phone: 212 854-5555 (Morningside campus) or 212 305-7979 (Medical Campus). Columbia Public Safety Services Walking and vehicle patrols and guard booths in and around the Morningside, Manhattanville, and CUIMC campuses. LionSafe smartphone app, neighborhood merchants serving as Safe Havens, and Blue Light Emergency Call Boxes. General safety and crime prevention tips. Additional crime prevention programs. A video on Safety and Security Tips for Public Transportation. Situational awareness training. Watch the video of the recent training session. Read more on the Public Safety website. Additional Personal Safety Tips At night, take the well-lit and well-traveled paths. Avoid shortcuts through dark or isolated areas. Be prepared and ready with your keys before approaching your residence halls, apartments, homes, and/or automobiles. If you think someone might be following you, don’t lead them to your destination—instead, abruptly change directions and go into a store or restaurant that is open. Be aware of your valuables and belongings, such as your backpack, handbag, or wallet. Even if you’re in a “safe” place for a short time, take them with you rather than leave them behind. When taking the bus or subway, use well-lit, and preferably well-peopled, stations. Beware of Scams and Phishing Fraudulent phishing emails and imposter phone calls are a big problem. Scammers are very creative and skillful in seeking access to your money and/or personal information by either gaining your confidence (“con artist”) or threatening you. They pretend to be from a government agency and demand money for a variety of fake reasons, including taxes you owe or a problem with your immigration status. The best way to avoid being a victim of a scam is to be aware that they exist and have some common characteristics: Always be suspicious of unsolicited phone calls and emails. If it doesn’t sound right—just hang up! Be aware that a government agency would never ask you to send money a certain way or purchase gift cards. Just hang up! Resist their pressure to act immediately, before you have time to think or check their information. Contact Public Safety. Learn more on our website where we have consolidated sample scenarios and videos and additional resources. Avoiding Scams GETTING CONNECTED paint-brush icon Arts Initiative The Arts Initiative at Columbia University connects Columbians with incredible arts experiences on campus and throughout the larger arts landscape of NYC. Review their website for free admission to multiple museums as well as city-wide events (some free) all throughout the year. cloud icon Spiritual and Community Life For information about religious life on campus, learn about the Earl Hall Center. Its mission is to foster learning through spiritual, ethical, religious and cultural exchange, and to promote service to the University and its surrounding New York City communities. Read more through their affiliated websites: Office of the University Chaplain and Community Impact. dribbble icon Sports and Physical Fitness To gain access to Columbia’s Dodge Fitness Center, dependents will need to provide documentation that has both their name and their spouse’s name and address on it, such as a lease or bank statement, and documents reflecting the F-2 or J-2 immigration status. See the family section of Dodge's eligibility page for more information. To gain access to 50 Haven Athletic Center for the CUIMC community, read more on their membership page. handshake icon Volunteering Volunteering is another great way to get involved and help others. Check out these organizations’ programs and volunteer opportunities: One To World New York Cares Community Impact street-view icon More Resources Resources for Students and for Scholars can provide additional guide through an exciting transition and more opportunities for building life-long friendships. International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) also aims to help our scholar spouses and partners (J-2) community to connect with each other and acclimate to living in NYC. Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close