Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home Employment For Students Unpaid Internships and Volunteering Unpaid Internships and Volunteering On this page Unpaid Internship Overview Eligibility Volunteering Overview FAQs Useful Links Unpaid Internship Overview In most situations, you will require some type of employment authorization to gain experience in your field of study. It is understandable that you might think that if you accept work for which you will not get paid it is not considered employment, and therefore does not require authorization. However, this is not correct. Immigration regulations consider employment to be any type of work performed, or services provided, in exchange for money, tuition, fees, books, supplies, lodging, or for any other benefit. Moreover, both the U.S. and New York State have strict criteria regarding what constitutes a legitimate, bona fide unpaid internship and is not in violation of their labor laws. If you are receiving any type of compensation, or the prospective position does not meet the unpaid internship criteria, you must obtain work permission (CPT, OPT, AT) if eligible. If you have completed your program you will need OPT authorization for both paid and unpaid positions. Eligibility According to U.S. labor law, unpaid internships are: ✓ structured in a particular way to be of benefit to the intern and not necessarily to the provider ✓ unpaid for everyone, regardless of immigration status or employment eligibility ✓ not able to be compensated retroactively Expand all Collapse all Departments of Labor Criteria for Unpaid Internships U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) The U.S. DOL considers the following factors in determining whether an intern is the "primary beneficiary" of the intern-employer relationship or is, in fact, an employee and should be paid. Courts will look at the extent to which: 1, it is clearly understood by both intern and employer that there is no expectation of compensation 2. the internship is similar to training which would be given in an educational environment 3. the internship is tied to the intern's educational program by integrated coursework or the receipt of academic credit 4. the internship corresponds to the academic calendar to accommodate the intern's academic commitments 5. the internship's duration is limited to the period in which it provides the intern with beneficial learning 6. the intern's work complements, rather than displaces, the work of paid employees, while providing significant educational benefit 7. it is understood that there is no entitlement to a paid job at the conclusion of the internship New York State Department of Labor You and your internship provider must also comply with these additional 5 requirements of the New York State Department of Labor. 1. Any clinical training is performed under the supervision and direction of people who are knowledgeable and experienced in the activity. 2. The trainees or students do not receive employee benefits. 3. The training is general, and qualifies trainees or students to work in any similar business. It is not designed specifically for a job with the employer that offers the program. 4. The screening process for the internship program is not the same as for employment, and does not appear to be for that purpose. The screening only uses criteria relevant for admission to an independent educational program. 5. Advertisements, postings, or solicitations for the program clearly discuss education or training, rather than employment, although employers may indicate that qualified graduates may be considered for employment. Volunteering Overview Volunteering allows you to get involved with the local community, network, utilize skills and learn new ones. The U.S. Department of Labor defines volunteering as donating time with an organization whose primary purpose is civic, charitable, or humanitarian in nature. Remember, you may not receive payment or any type of compensation. You cannot offer to volunteer for a position: which is normally paid, or for which you will be paid later You can learn about some volunteer opportunities through the links below: Columbia’s Community Impact New York Cares NYC Service Volunteer Match Expand all Collapse all FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) Do I need work authorization to accept an unpaid internship? You are not required to obtain work authorization to engage in an unpaid internship that meets all the criteria. Ask in advance what paperwork the organization requires from you to start your unpaid internship. If they want you to complete an I-9 Employment Authorization Verification form, it means they consider it to be an employment relationship requiring authorization even if you are not being paid. If you have completed your program, you need F-1 OPT or J-1 Academic Training authorization for both paid and unpaid positions. Can the ISSO give me a letter of permission to do an unpaid internship? The ISSO can authorize Curricular Practical Training (CPT) for both paid and unpaid positions. If the unpaid internship is not CPT-eligible, we are not able to vet unpaid internships for compliance with labor laws and are not authorized by regulation to give permission. Do I need work authorization for a volunteer position? You are not required to obtain work authorization to engage in legitimate volunteer activities. How do I prove that my position was an unpaid internship or a volunteer position? We advise that you get documentation from the organization explaining the nature and terms of your work, and keep this with your other immigration records. Related Information F-1 Curricular Practical Training F-1 OPT During Your Degree Program F-1 OPT After Your Program J-1 Academic Training Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close