Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University ISSO Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Getting Started Visas and Travel Maintaining Your Status Employment Taxes For Departments For Students Applying for Your I-20/DS-2019 Applying for Your Transfer I-20 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Students For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Visa Sponsorship Transferring to Columbia (J-1 Scholars) Transferring H-1/ O-1/ TN / E-3 Entering the U.S. Reporting Your Arrival Your First Weeks Resources for Scholars For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Resources for Dependents International Spouses and Partners Network (ISPN) For Students About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Returning from Canada & Mexico Change Your Status in the U.S. Travel Signatures and I-20/DS-2019 Reprints (F and J Students) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel (Students) Travel During F-1 OPT Study/Research Abroad Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) About Your Visa Applying for a Visa Travel Signatures and DS-2019 Reprints (J Scholar) Renewing Your Passport in the U.S. Documents Needed to Travel Returning from Canada & Mexico Inviting Family and Friends to Visit For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Obtaining Visa Documents for Dependents (F/J Students and Scholars) For Students Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (F-1) Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status Requesting a Reduced Course Load (RCL) Leave of Absence, Suspension, or Withdrawal Your Final Term and Beyond Extending Your Current Program Beginning a New Program Current Students FAQs For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Reporting a Change of U.S. Address Transferring out of Columbia (J-1) Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Guidelines to Maintaining Status J-1 Scholar Health Insurance Extending Your Status Leaving Columbia For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Maintaining Your Status For Students Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia On-Campus Work (F and J Students) J-1 Academic Training (AT) F-1 CPT (Curricular Practical Training) Unpaid Internships and Volunteering F-1 OPT During Your Program F-1 OPT After Your Program F-1 STEM OPT Extension OPT Reporting (OPT and STEM Extension) Cap-Gap OPT Extension For Scholars (Professors/Researchers) Social Security Number Application Payment from Columbia Employment Outside of Columbia Permission for J-1 Scholar Lectures For Dependents (Spouse/Children) Employment Overview J-2 Work Permission U.S. Income Tax Basics (F and J) Filing Non-Resident Tax Forms with Sprintax (F & J) Resources for Filing Your Resident Tax Return Payment from Columbia Overview (Faculty & Scholar Services) Meet the Faculty and Scholars Team Visa Sponsorship Overview Department Responsibilities B-1/B-2/ESTA Visitor Policy Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Overview (Student Services) Overview of F/J Student Regulations ISSO School Liaisons Leave of Absence Social Security Number Application Wages and Stipends from Columbia Skills Verification Letter Request Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors J-1 Visa Characteristics J-1 Visiting Scholar J-1 Research or Teaching Appointment J-1 Student Intern Visiting Scholar Without J-1 Reporting Serious Situations (J-1) Sponsoring or Extending: H-1B (Specialty Occupation) E-3 (Australians only) TN (Canadians and Mexicans only) O-1 Extraordinary Ability PR Permanent Residency Visa Sponsorship Applications Morningside/Manhattanville Login (SSP Portal) CUIMC Login (Compass Portal) ISSO You are here: Home For Departments Sponsoring or Extending J-1 Exchange Visitors Sponsoring a J-1 Student Intern Sponsoring a J-1 Student Intern The J-1 Student Intern Category is not to be confused with J-1 Students who are enrolled in a degree program at Columbia. The J-1 Student Intern refers only to a student currently enrolled in a degree program abroad (usually undergraduate) who visits Columbia to engage in a research-based internship that is integral to the curriculum of the home institution's degree program to which the intern will return. On this page: Eligibility Before You Sponsor How to Apply Reporting Requirements How to Extend Department User Guides CUIMC: Compass User Guide Morningside/Manhattanville: Overview of SSP (Scholar Sponsorship Portal) and SSP User Guide Eligibility A prospective J-1 Student Intern must meet all requirements below ✓ Enrolled and in good academic standing in an accredited postsecondary academic institution outside the United States and resume studies at the home institution upon completion of the internship. ✓ Coming to engage in a structured research‐based program at Columbia University that will fulfill the educational objectives for the current degree program abroad. ✓ Have English language proficiency sufficient to function on a day‐to‐day basis in the program. ✓ Intend to return to his or her academic studies following completion of the internship in order to fulfill the home country degree requirements. ✓ Have sufficient funding for the visit to cover living expenses ($2,800/month) and be able to provide proof of health insurance that will be valid for the duration of the stay in the U.S. The student’s internship must: ✓ Provide a structured work‐based program that will reinforce the student’s academic study upon return to the home institution. ✓ Be full‐time (minimum of 32 hours/week), and involve not more than 20% clerical work. ✓ Must not displace U.S. workers. Expand all Collapse all Before You Sponsor Does your prospective student intern have the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree? If yes, the student may qualify for a scholar category of J-1, with either an academic appointment if providing employment services to the University a Visiting Scholar designation if conducting independent research NB: Students currently enrolled in a 5-year engineering program at a French polytechnique leading to the Diplome d'Ingenieur qualification are not considered to have an equivalent of a bachelor's degree. Timeline Submit application 3 months before the start date. This allows time for the student intern to obtain or renew a passport, if needed, and apply for a J-1 visa at a U.S. consulate. Processing Time We will issue Form DS-2019 within 10 business days of receiving a complete application. Students who qualify for the J-1 Student Intern category The J-1 Student Intern category is typically used when the student will not yet have the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree by the start of the internship, but on occasion may be used for graduate students as well. How to Apply Pay the $500 Fee This fee applies to those requesting J-1 visa sponsorship as a Student Intern to further their own independent research or to complete a practicum from their home school. Expand all Collapse all Morningside/Manhattanville Student interns pay by credit card via this form (unless paid by the department). CUIMC Departments CUIMC departments will be instructed to provide a chart string when completing a J-1 intern application in Compass (see Step 3). Expand all Collapse all Gather Your Documents Morningside/Manhattanville Departments ✓ Document Cover Sheet Description ✓ Document Appointment letter on letterhead stating dates and salary, if any Description Needed only if a paid position ✓ Document Provost’s Office approval of designation. See the Provost's Office Process for the Designation of Visiting Scholars/Scientists Description Printout of the email from [email protected] confirming the dates for which the designation has been approved ✓ Document Curriculum Vitae Description ✓ Document DS-7002 Training/ Internship Placement Plan Description Use our sample form as a guide (do not submit this) ✓ Document Signed English Language Proficiency Verification Form Description ✓ Document J-1 Student Intern Home School Certification Description The date the student intern will resume studies at home institution must be after the date the internship ends ✓ Document Medical Insurance Acknowledgment Form Description ✓ Document Online Visiting Scholar Administration Fee Payment receipt for the $500 Columbia University J-1 Student Intern fee Description If not paying through the department via "chart string" ✓ Document Funding documentation showing ability to cover current estimate (Refer to the Funding Documents Checklist) Description $2800 per month ✓ Document Copy of passport ID page Description CUIMC Departments The online application for a J-1 Student Intern visa document has several components. Documentation and information is supplied by the department, the prospective Student Intern, and the Faculty Sponsor of the internship. When you log in to the Compass portal, you will be prompted with instructions on what you need to do. ✓ Document / Information English Language Proficiency Verification Who's responsible Department ✓ Document / Information Funding documentation showing ability to cover living expenses ($2800 per month. Refer to the Funding Documents Checklist) Who's responsible Department ✓ Document / Information Information needed to complete the Training/Internship Placement Plan Who's responsible Faculty Sponsor ✓ Document / Information Passport biological data page Who's responsible Student Intern ✓ Document / Information Health Insurance attestation Who's responsible Student Intern ✓ Document / Information CV or resume Who's responsible Student Intern ✓ Document / Information Home school certification with date the student intern will resume studies after the date the internship ends Who's responsible Student Intern ✓ Document / Information $500 fee Who's responsible Chart string provided by the department) Document / Information Who's responsible Expand all Collapse all Submit your application Morningside/Manhattanville Departments Log in to the Scholar Sponsorship Portal (SSP) with your UNI and password to submit all three parts of your application This application consists of 3 parts. All 3 parts must be completed before we receive your application. Contact us if you are a department administrator requesting access to the SSP. Part 1 Completed by the department (contact us if your UNI and password isn't working) Part 2 Completed by the scholar (per the scholar’s email address entered in Part 1) Part 3 Completed by the department (the department user will get an email when the scholar completes Part 2) Form DS-7002: Email us the electronic fillable version of the DS-7002 that you have completed (not scanned). You may want to refer to the Guide for Completing the DS-7002. Need more help? For a description of the process, visit our SSP Overview page. Visit our SSP Department Guide for technical assistance. CUIMC Departments This application consists of four (4) parts. All 4 parts must be completed in order to submit your application. Please complete the Request Access to Compass form if needed. Please refer to our CUIMC Department Compass User Guide for detailed instructions. Part 1 The department and Faculty Sponsor complete the Training/Internship Placement Plan (Form DS-7002) Part 2 The student intern gives consent to the Training/Internship Placement Plan (Form DS-7002) and submit the Health Insurance Attestation form Part 3 The department completes the English Language Proficiency Verification form Part 4 The Faculty Sponsor and the Departmental Administrator/HR Director review and certify the application We will contact you Allow up to 10 business days for us to review and process your application. We will notify you by email when your student intern’s new Form DS-2019 is ready. Reporting Requirements Both the student intern and the host professor/PI must complete and sign the Intern Evaluation Form at the end of the intern's stay, required by U.S. Department of State regulation.. All internships require a final evaluation. Internships lasting longer than six months also require at least one additional evaluation at the midpoint of the program. You must retain intern evaluations (electronic or hard copy) for at least 3 years following completion of each intern’s program. Expand all Collapse all How to Submit the Evaluation Form ISSO Morningside/Manhattanville Email the completed and signed Evaluation to ISSO Morningside/Manhattanville. ISSO-CUIMC (Medical Campus) Student Interns are able to log in to Compass and complete their part of the evaluation. After you submit the electronic form to ISSO-CUIMC, an automatic email will be initiated to your Columbia professor/faculty sponsor with Part II he/she must complete. Log in to Compass. How to Extend The maximum duration in the United States for a J-1 student intern is 12 months. Since they return to their home institutions following their internships, it is rare that an Intern requires an extension to their stay beyond their original program duration. An extension needs to be processed before the expiration date of the current Form DS-2019. If you have an Intern who does need an extension, please contact: ISSO Morningside/Manhattanville ISSO-CUIMC Related Information DS-7002 Training/Internship Placement Form Guide to Completing the DS-7002 Form Home School Certification Form English Language Proficiency Verification CUIMC Department Compass User Guide Expand all Collapse all Expand all Collapse all Students at Morningside Campus524 Riverside Drive, International House North, 1st Floor · New York, NY 10027 Scholars (Professors, Researchers, Visiting Scholars) at Morningside and Manhattanville Campus3280 Broadway, Nash Building, 5th Floor, Room 510 · New York, NY 10027 Medical Center Students & Scholars (CUIMC)650 West 168th Street, 1st Floor, Room 130 · New York, NY 10032 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close