Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Institute for Security, Technology and Society Contact Us Facebook Twitter Institute.for.Security.Technology.Society@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About ISTS History & Mission Back to Top Nav Research Focus Areas Internet of Things Machine Learning & AI Social Hacking Deception, Risk, & Deterrence Insider Threats Compositional Security ISTS Research Viewbook Funding Opportunities ISTS - Neukom Institute Internship Grant Program Undergraduate Opportunities Faculty and Postdoc Opportunities Publications Back to Top Nav Outreach GenCyber Summer Program 2021 Program Past Programs Women in Cybersecurity Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Colloquium Series Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search GenCyber Program for Summer 2022 The GenCyber summer program in cybersecurity for high school students is not happening this Summer 2022. We look forward to the return of the program for Summer 2023, but for now, stay tuned and more to come on that. Our 2021 GenCyber summer program was a great success. Congratulations to all the wonderful participants! Vibrent Health Reimagines Health Research and Professor David Kotz to Lead Dartmouth's Collaborative Effort Professor David Kotz to lead Dartmouth’s collaborative effort with Vibrent Health under the National Institutes of Health’s All of Us Research Program. The mission of this project is to collect longitudinal datasets that generate opportunities for scientific discoveries, with the understanding that participant privacy and security must be upheld throughout the process. Kotz and his team will be developing novel approaches to ensure participant privacy in mobile, wearable, and pervasive technologies, throughout the collection of health-related data. Furthermore, the team will work on creating interfaces to obtain privacy-related preferences from participants and relay privacy-related information back to the user. Professor Kotz’s previous security and privacy research spans the healthcare and smart device spaces. The team look forward to this new collaboration and the technologies that will emerge in hopes to ensure the continuation of robust health research while upholding the privacy and security of the individual. The official press release can be found here: https://bit.ly/3uVRQfO To learn more about Professor Kotz’s recent research endeavors and collaborations in the mHealth space, check out CBTH, THaW and Auracle, and for his current smart device multi-university project, SPLICE. Professor Kotz is also seeking postdocs and PhD students to join this project. Video of V.S. Subrahmanian on Cyber Hacks ISTS Director on Cyber Hacks SolarWinds isn’t some new form of renewable energy. Rather it is at the center of several recent cyberattacks. These attacks have compromised Microsoft, the US Department of Treasury, and the Department of Homeland Security, amongst other organizations. According to our ISTS-led research with George Mason University, there is a 132 day gap between the time that a vulnerability is discovered, and the time that reports on important severity attributes of that vulnerability are made available to stakeholders. Half the attacks that use those vulnerabilities occurs during that time. An early warning system to manage vulnerabilities is critically needed. You can learn more about our work at: https://news.dartmouth.edu/news/2021/02/video-vs-subrahmanian-cyber-hacks https://dsaildartmouth.github.io/VESTWriteUp.pdf Also, check out our VEST system at: https://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~dsail/projects/vest/vest-video.mp4 ISTS panel "Privacy Implications for the Internet of Things" (SPLICE) We recently had a great conversation with cybersecurity experts to discuss the most pressing security and privacy challenges related to the “Internet of Things” (IOT) devices, such as smart phones, smart watches, smart kitchen appliances and more. If you want to learn about whether your TV is spying on you, the role of IoT devices in surveillance, or even the more technical aspects of federated learning vs the “Hoover” approach with respect to IoT devices, check out the recording of the event here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-XXmFZD0i1U&feature=youtu.be Thank you to our awesome panelists and moderator and the 40+ virtual attendees who submitted thought provoking and important questions! Follow the page to stay updated on upcoming panels and events related to cybersecurity, AI, IoT and more related! Panelists: April Doss, JD (Chair of Cybersecurity and Privacy Practice at Saul Ewing Arnstein & Lehr LLP), Hamed Haddadi, PhD (Professor in Human Centered Systems at Imperial College London), Susan Landau, PhD (Bridge Professor in Cyber Security and Policy), Avi Rubin, PhD (Technical Director of the Johns Hopkins University Information Security Institute) Moderator: Professor David Kotz Professor David Kotz named ACM Fellow and recently featured in a Dartmouth video Professor David Kotz was named one of 95 new ACM Fellows by The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and his citation reads: “For contributions to the security, privacy, and usability of mobile systems.” This is a very prestigious honor and the ACM fellows are recognized to “have driven innovations that ushered in significant improvements across many areas of technology, industry, and personal life.” Recently, Professor Kotz '86 was featured in a Dartmouth video where he talks about the privacy risks of smart home technology. With the growing use of smart home speakers, smart security cameras, smart water leak sensors, and other smart devices, there are also privacy risks to consider. Congratulations from ISTS! PreviousNext About ISTS ISTS is dedicated to pursuing research and education to advance information security and privacy throughout society.learn more Our Research Current ISTS projects bring cutting-edge research and a broad understanding of cybersecurity and trust to both the public and private sector. Our Team Learn more about the ISTS associated faculty, postdocs, graduate students, and staff.learn more Main menu Dartmouth College Institute for Security, Technology and Society About About ISTS History & Mission Research Focus Areas Internet of Things Machine Learning & AI Social Hacking Deception, Risk, & Deterrence Insider Threats Compositional Security ISTS Research Viewbook Funding Opportunities ISTS - Neukom Institute Internship Grant Program Undergraduate Opportunities Faculty and Postdoc Opportunities Publications Outreach GenCyber Summer Program 2021 Program Past Programs Women in Cybersecurity News & Events News & Events Colloquium Series People Admin Site Ribbon Footer People Senior Program Administrator A. Degoma adegoma@dartmouth.edu Find Us Address Dartmouth College 9 Maynard Street Sudikoff Laboratoryhttp://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 603-646-0700 Fax: (603) 646-1672 HB: HB 6211 Email: Institute.for.Security.Technology.Society@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback