Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Institute for Security, Technology and Society Contact Us Facebook Twitter Institute.for.Security.Technology.Society@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About ISTS History & Mission Back to Top Nav Research Focus Areas Internet of Things Machine Learning & AI Social Hacking Deception, Risk, & Deterrence Insider Threats Compositional Security ISTS Research Viewbook Funding Opportunities ISTS - Neukom Institute Internship Grant Program Undergraduate Opportunities Faculty and Postdoc Opportunities Publications Back to Top Nav Outreach GenCyber Summer Program 2021 Program Past Programs Women in Cybersecurity Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Colloquium Series Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Focus Areas ISTS Research Viewbook Funding Opportunities ISTS - Neukom Institute Internship Grant Program Application Form Undergraduate Opportunities Faculty and Postdoc Opportunities Publications Share ISTS - Neukom Institute Internship Grant Program The Institute for Security, Technology and Society (ISTS) and the Neukom Institute offer leave-term funding each term to support an undergraduate, or graduate student, in pursuing an unpaid internship with a non-profit organization. We do not consider funding for unpaid internships at for-profit companies, government agencies or for university research. About the Internship Established in 2000, ISTS is dedicated to research and education to advance information security and privacy throughout society. The Neukom Institute was founded in 2007. Its primary goal is to enable Dartmouth students and faculty to integrate computational technology into their scholarship. This internship support can be used to help one gain work experience to become familiar with a new area of information technology. Topics as diverse as the following will be considered: the use of computational thinking in academic disciplines (i.e., the sciences, social sciences, and humanities) or in real-world applications the impact of information technology on security and privacy throughout society the relation of information technology to socio-economic forces, cultural values and political influences In every instance, a company, organization or advisor must be located before an application can be submitted. Internship Criteria ISTS and Neukom will consider awarding funds for external unpaid internships with non-profit organizations during an off-term. Undergraduates and graduate students are eligible for up to $4,000 in funding to cover living expenses and travel, depending on the availability of funds. Awards may be offered for less than the original amount requested by the student. Applicants must be returning to campus for at least one term after completing the internship. Internship recipients are required to write a 3-5 page summary when their project has been completed, to be kept on file in the Institutes’ offices. These reports may be posted on the website and will be made available to other students looking for internship ideas. Returning interns agree to participate as requested in workshops or informational sessions relating to internships in general. In every instance, a company, organization or advisor must be located before an application can be submitted. To be eligible, candidates must submit a completed application by the appropriate deadline. A letter of recommendation from a Dartmouth faculty member is required. A Supervisor’s Statement of Agreement signed by the person who will supervise the Intern's work during the term is also necessary and should be submitted with the candidate’s application. Finally, candidates must submit a budget request outlining their expected expenses for the Internship period. If you are unsure whether your internship is eligible, please feel free to email us with a brief description of your project before you apply. Application Deadlines Winter Term 2018-2019 Deadline: Wednesday, October 10, 2018 Spring Term 2019 Deadline: N/A Summer Term 2019 Deadline: N/A Application Process Please follow the steps below. Complete the application form. Submit a 1-2 page written narrative via email. In it please describe: the relevance of the internship to your academic and intellectual interests the responsibilities and requirements of the internship and your qualifications to fulfill them a description of your personal goals how the internship relates to the mission and goals of ISTS and/or the Neukom Institute Submit the forms below via email. Forms should be completed and submitted by the application deadline. Supervisor Statement Faculty Recommendation Form If you have any questions, please contact the Neukom Institute directly. Main menu Dartmouth College Institute for Security, Technology and Society About About ISTS History & Mission Research Focus Areas Internet of Things Machine Learning & AI Social Hacking Deception, Risk, & Deterrence Insider Threats Compositional Security ISTS Research Viewbook Funding Opportunities ISTS - Neukom Institute Internship Grant Program Undergraduate Opportunities Faculty and Postdoc Opportunities Publications Outreach GenCyber Summer Program 2021 Program Past Programs Women in Cybersecurity News & Events News & Events Colloquium Series People Admin Site Ribbon Footer People Senior Program Administrator A. Degoma adegoma@dartmouth.edu Find Us Address Dartmouth College 9 Maynard Street Sudikoff Laboratoryhttp://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 603-646-0700 Fax: (603) 646-1672 HB: HB 6211 Email: Institute.for.Security.Technology.Society@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback