Skip to content Loading... Your browser does not support JavaScript, or it is currently disabled. This site requires JavaScript support to run properly. Toggle navigation Site home Programs Staff LOGIN Get Started How do I Get Started? The Study Abroad Application Process Applying for a Passport Sample Applications Search by Term and Type of Program Search by Region of the World Search by Academic Area New Search Home How to Request a Letter of Recommendation Frequently Asked Questions Program Search Types of Programs Programs by College Study Abroad Center Agriculture & Life Sciences Business Design Engineering Human Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Veterinary Medicine Internships Abroad Internship Search Career Services Offices Campus Contacts Programs Open to All Majors Scholarships/Financial Aid ISU Financial Aid International Scholarships Scholarship Search Return to Application (Login) ISU User Login External (Non-ISU) User Login Information for ISU Staff & Faculty ISUAbroad Tutorial EU GDPR Documentation ISUAbroad Permissions Request PD Training Incoming Exchange Students How to Apply for Exchange Academics Housing and Dining Arrival Information and Orientation Student Life Insurance Abroad Travel Registration Contact Us Study Abroad Center College of Ag & Life Sciences Study Abroad Ivy College of Business International Programs Design International Programs Engineering International Programs CHS International Programs LAS Study Abroad College of Veterinary Medicine Int’l Programs Student Blogs from Abroad Announcements Announcements Loading... Previous announcement View All Next announcement Site links Get Started How do I Get Started? The Study Abroad Application Process Applying for a Passport Sample Applications Search by Term and Type of Program Search by Region of the World Search by Academic Area New Search Home How to Request a Letter of Recommendation Frequently Asked Questions Program Search Types of Programs Programs by College Study Abroad Center Agriculture & Life Sciences Business Design Engineering Human Sciences Liberal Arts & Sciences Veterinary Medicine Internships Abroad Internship Search Career Services Offices Campus Contacts Programs Open to All Majors Scholarships/Financial Aid ISU Financial Aid International Scholarships Scholarship Search Return to Application (Login) ISU User Login External (Non-ISU) User Login Information for ISU Staff & Faculty ISUAbroad Tutorial EU GDPR Documentation ISUAbroad Permissions Request PD Training Incoming Exchange Students How to Apply for Exchange Academics Housing and Dining Arrival Information and Orientation Student Life Insurance Abroad Travel Registration Contact Us Study Abroad Center College of Ag & Life Sciences Study Abroad Ivy College of Business International Programs Design International Programs Engineering International Programs CHS International Programs LAS Study Abroad College of Veterinary Medicine Int’l Programs Student Blogs from Abroad Announcements Insurance Abroad International Health Insurance and Emergency Service All individuals traveling internationally on ISU-sponsored travel are covered by the university’s international health and safety insurance program. The plan provides coverage worldwide outside the 50 United States and the traveler's country of residence. It is not intended for use in the 50 United States or to replace your current U.S. coverage. Please note that this coverage does not include trip cancellation or delayed baggage insurance. Insurance & registration is required for any ISU-sponsored travel, regardless of funding source. Undergraduate International Travel All undergraduate students traveling internationally on ISU-sponsored travel (e.g., student orgs, independent study, internships, research, etc.) MUST register their travel and obtain the insurance for the duration of their trip. Costs associated with insurance will appear on the traveler’s U-Bill. Study Abroad Students Independent Study, Internships, Research Student Organizations Automatically enrolled based on study abroad application. Register in ISUAbroad through the Intl Credit or Intl Non-Credit links towards the bottom of the Types of Programs page. Student organizations interested in traveling internationally should first submit their trip to the Student Organization Travel Authorization (SOTA) system. Once a trip is approved in SOTA, an application will be created in ISUAbroad for individual traveler registration. Graduate and Professional Student Travel Graduate and professional students traveling for study abroad, any credit-bearing activity, or other activities related to their status as a student should follow the same process as undergraduate students outlined above. For travel associated with university-funded research, conferences, and other business-related travel, graduate and professional students should register using the International Travel Registration Portal, following the process below for business travel. For clarification, you may contact intlrisk@iastate.edu. University International Business Travel ISU international business travelers (faculty, staff, and postdocs) and Study Abroad program leaders should register their travel in the International Travel Registration Portal regardless of funding source. Business travelers receive insurance coverage for any ISU-sponsored travel. Coverage is also extended to spouses and dependents traveling with employees on business. Proof of Insurance Letter: If you require proof of coverage for visa applications or other consular requirements, you may submit a Proof of Insurance Request Form. For more information on visa requirements for U.S. citizens traveling abroad, see: https://travel.state.gov/content/visas/en.html. International Health and Safety Insurance Information ISU's insurance policy provides coverage in a variety of areas, including: Medical expenses and hospitalization, up to $500,000 per insured person. Medical evacuation expenses, up to $500,000 per insured person, per event. Repatriation of remains or burial, up to $100,000 per insured person. Emergency Reunion benefits, up to $5,000, for a family member to travel to you if you are hospitalized for more than 72 hours, or if you are the victim of a felonious assault. Trip interruption benefits, up to $2,500 if you must return home early due to certain covered events. Up to 14 days of additional coverage is provided immediately before and after your ISU travel days for personal travel. Additional details regarding the insurance program can be found at the Office of Risk Management website. For questions regarding the plan, you may contact intlinsurance@iastate.edu. Detailed Information Plan Summary Detailed Policy Information Travel Insurance Resources Plan information portal Portal group ID: 100118CPPD21 Plan documents, contact and claim forms, pre-trip preparation resources Security, medical, or emergency claims assistance: Phone: +1 603-952-2056 (collect worldwide) 1-888-226-9576 (toll-free US or Canada) 24/7 live chat mail@oncallinternational.com Non-emergency claims tpaclaims@oncallinternational.com Info This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read cookie policy Accept? Yes No