Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Information Technology School of Humanities & Sciences Search Menu Get Support How to Get Help H&S Systems Our Services AV Services Collaboration Tools Computer Replacement Toggle Computer Replacement Standard Computer Models Healthy Devices Information Security IT Consultation Operations Research Computing Resources Community Relationship Management (H&S CRM) Website Consulting About Us Overview Meet the Team News Cardinal Key required Cardinal Key is required for computers and phones accessing Stanford resources such as Axess, webmail, and Stanford’s Google Drive. Learn More about Cardinal Key in H&S Log4Shell Vulnerability A critical software vulnerability known as Log4Shell was broadly publicized. This vulnerability is widespread, affecting organizations worldwide and putting numerous Stanford systems at risk. Log4Shell Vulnerability Research Computing H&S IT supports faculty members and their teams throughout the school with consulting and computational resources to enable research. Learn more about this initiative Previous Next Humanities and Sciences IT (H&S IT) is part of the Dean’s Office of the School of Humanities and Sciences (H&S). The H&S IT Team works with University IT (UIT), our peer IT organizations and external partners to support the H&S community. We further the academic mission of the school through the use of technology by making administration more efficient, and teaching, learning and research more effective. Find out more Upcoming Initiatives Cardinal Key required Starting the summer of 2021, University IT is requiring Cardinal Key for computers and phones accessing Stanford resources such as Axess, webmail, and Stanford’s Google Drive. view Backup software may not be configured properly on MacOS We’ve become aware of a bad interaction between recent MacOS releases and Stanford’s Code 42 Crashplan backup software. Recent MacOS releases require explicit permission for non-Apple applications to access all of a user's storage. view Upgrade All Macs to MacOS 10.14 or higher In the coming months, there will be several changes to Stanford's IT infrastructure that will affect our Apple computer users. view Featured News Log4Shell Vulnerability On Friday, December 10, a critical software vulnerability known as Log4Shell was broadly publicized. view Introducing the new generation of device management for Macs, Jamf view Announcements Events Ivy+ Cybersecurity and Privacy Festival 2021 Living in a hybrid world, much of our professional and personal lives takes place online. view Deadlines Virtual Host Redirect Migration On October 9th, University IT sent an email about Virtual Host Redirects. view See More News H&S Resources School of Humanities and Sciences Facilities and Capital Planning Faculty Affairs Finance Graduate and Undergraduate Studies Human Resources Information Technology Planning Public Relations Research Administration IT Resources University IT Communities of Practice Stanford Libraries Contact Us People Get Support SUNet Login The School of Humanities and Sciences is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. The school encompasses 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs. It is the university's home for fundamental research, where free, open, and critical inquiry is pursued across disciplines. Learn more about H&S Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.