Skip to Main Content Brown University Office of Information Technology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals MyBrown Login Search Menu Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Search Office of Information Technology OIT Leadership Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies OIT Leadership John Spadaro Interim Chief Digital Information Officer/Deputy CIO John_Spadaro@brown.edu As the Deputy CIO, John is responsible for managing the IT Service Center and insuring that Brown's IT systems work together seamlessly to provide the university community with a comprehensive and modern set of reliable IT services that meet the needs of research, scholarship and the administration. He also oversees Project Management. A Dartmouth College graduate, John has been at Brown since 1984. Prior to his current role he served as a User Services Specialist, ran the Student Help Desk and was a mainframe systems programmer. More recently John directed the infrastructure systems and services team that supported email, directories, web services and the underlying infrastructure that makes them all work. John has taken on the Interim CIO role twice, as well as temporary leadership roles in Advancement IT, and the Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV). To arrange an appointment, please contact Wendy Octeau, Wendy_Octeau@brown.edu. Mark Dieterich Chief Information Security Officer mark_dieterich@brown.edu Mark Dieterich is the Chief Information Security Officer at Brown University. He started his career at Brown in 1997 with the Department of Computer Science, holding a variety of positions until he was finally promoted to Director of IT for the department. In his current role, Mark is responsible for information security architecture and best practices across the University, directing security compliance and risk assessment efforts, leading awareness programs, directing an incident response team, and overseeing the Information Security team. He has a vast technological background, with experience managing and securing many of the software technologies employed at Brown today. Mark’s background includes everything from high level architecture design to low level code debugging, covering a variety of security aspects. To arrange an appointment, please contact Lisa Vaillancourt, Lisa_Vaillancourt@brown.edu. Geoffrey Greene Director, Departmental Systems Geoffrey_Greene@brown.edu Geoffrey Greene is Director of Departmental Systems at Brown University. Geoff has worked in IT at Brown since 1988, holding a variety of positions. In his current role, Geoff directs the Production Services team in OIT and oversees the IT needs for many departments at Brown, including the Division of Biology and Medicine, the Dean of Campus Life, the Department of Public Safety, and Business and Financial Services. Geoff and his teams oversee the change management and problem management processes to ensure quality across all aspects of IT. To arrange an appointment, please contact Amy Fernandes, Amy_Fernandes@brown.edu. Paul Stey Assistant CIO, Research Software Engineering and Data Science paul_stey@brown.edu As the Assistant CIO, Research Software Engineering and Data Science, Paul oversees support for data-intensive computing, machine learning, informatics, reporting, and analytics through the Data Science Practice team. Prior to Brown, Paul worked as a Mathematical Statistician at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. He completed a Ph.D. in Developmental Psychology at the University of Notre Dame; his undergraduate work was at The Ohio State University. Paul is broadly interested in ensemble methods for machine learning, as well as high-performance computing. To arrange an appointment, please contact Amy Fernandes, Amy_Fernandes@brown.edu. Tim Wells Director, Telecommunications and Network Technology Timothy_Wells@brown.edu Tim Wells came to Brown in June of 2006 as OIT's Director of Network Technology managing all aspects of the network and bringing with him over 20 years of IT experience. Since then Tim has taken on responsibility for Telecommunications, and Facilities IT Project Coordination. Before Brown, Tim was the Vice President of Enterprise Strategy and Architecture for Citizens Financial Group. During his eight years at Citizens, Tim held engineering and senior operational management positions, with responsibilities that included voice and data network support, planning and design, distributed systems support, data center cable architecture, storage architecture, disaster recovery and business continuity. Previously Tim worked for Honeywell Consumer Products as a network manager building a global voice and data network to support product manufacturing and distribution. Early in his career Tim also worked on the technical staff of Roger Williams University as a network engineer. To arrange an appointment, please contact Lisa Vaillancourt, Lisa_Vaillancourt@brown.edu. Linnea Wolfe Assistant CIO, Infrastructure and Research Computing Linnea_Wolfe@brown.edu After graduating from the University of Rhode Island with a bachelor of science in Management Information Systems and Management Science, Linnea Wolfe worked for four years as a database administrator for government contracting companies supporting the naval Trident submarine program. She came to Brown in 1989 as a database administrator, supporting the Josiah library system. She has held various management positions in The Office of Information Technology in the database, administrative technical services, and infrastructure areas. Her current responsibilities as Director of Infrastructure Services include; database services, systems services, datacenter operations, and storage, backup and IT DR services. As operating director of the Center for Computing and Visualization, Linnea has responsibility for working closely with the faculty director of CCV to lead the growth of research technologies and support to help faculty researchers compete and succeed in their own fields. To arrange an appointment, please contact Amy Fernandes, Amy_Fernandes@brown.edu. Advisory Groups Council on Computing and Information Technology (ACCIT) The Advisory Council on Computing & Information Technology shall consist of the President, ex officio, and no fewer than fifteen other members. Members shall be appointed by the President for staggered terms of three years each, beginning July 1 and ending June 30. A chairperson shall be designated annually by the President. The Council shall consider long-term policy and planning issues, strategic directions, and efficacy of implementation concerning Computing & Information Technology and their relationship to the overall educational mission of the University. Staffing: The Advisory Council on Computing & Information Technology shall be staffed by the Provost and the Chief Information Officer. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... MyBrown Login This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search OIT Leadership Open details for OIT Leadership Bookmark this Page