Skip to Main Content Brown University Office of Information Technology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals MyBrown Login Search Menu Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Search Office of Information Technology Information for Campus IT Professionals Information for Campus IT Professionals IT Professional Groups Back to Top Meetings and news for DCC and Sysadmin groups is posted on the IT@Brown: News & Resources blog. DCC (Departmental Computing Coordinators) Meetings are held on the 2nd Wednesday of the month Join the DCC ListServ DCC meeting presentation archive Pat Kinghorn is the DCC / CIS Liaison SysAdmins Meetings generally held on 4th Thursday of the month, 10am to 12pm, location varies. Consult the listserv for any changes in date and/or location. SysAdmins are welcome at DCC meetings as well. Join the SysAdmin ListServ OIT For OIT Staff Only - OIT Internal Site On-Campus Interest Groups Brown Internet Programmers Group - usually fourth Mondays at 2:30pm Brown Linux Users Group Off-Campus Interest Groups (Not Affiliated with Brown) Code for America RI League of Professional System Administrators NorthEast Regional Computing Program (NERCOMP) Providence Drupal Meetup Providence Geek Dinner Providence JavaScript Meetup Providence PHP Meetup Providence UX Meetup Providence Wordpress Meetup Additional Group Listings from PVD Tech Events Assistance and Outages Back to Top If you need assistance, call the IT Service Center at 863-4357. You can also create a ticket online at ithelp.brown.edu. If you intend to use the ticketing system in more depth, you can request a DeskPro Account online - note that the Protecting Brown's Information course is required before receiving access. If you think there is an outage of a campus IT service, check the IT at Brown homepage to see if it is already listed. If not, report it to the IT Service Center by calling 863-4357. Outside of business hours? Press 0. Supported Operating Systems - Windows, Macintosh Feeds: Alerts / Outages Announcements (does not include alerts / outages) IT Services Back to Top The Service Catalog is a comprehensive list of IT services provided by OIT and other groups on campus. The Technical Systems category may especially be of interest. Each service listing links to documentation, support, and the request mechanism for the service. Services include everything from password resets to web development to academic technology consultations - even if you think you know all the services available on campus, we suggest taking a look now and then to see what's new. Equipment Purchasing Back to Top Buying a Computer - includes recommended configurations Dell Premier Store - IT professionals can request an account in order to submit e-quotes on equipment their department would like to purchase. The financial coordinator of the department can then approve the purchase in Workday. Buying a Cellular Phone / Tablet Repair / Part Ordering Back to Top Repair information and rates are available on the repairs page. Select parts are available for those who wish to perform their own service and maintenance on their departmental equipment, including printer maintenance kits, memory chips, and other user installable parts. No warranty parts are available, and training is not provided for installation of purchased parts. (at 115 Waterman St., Room 101) Software Licensing Back to Top The OIT software catalog is online at http://software.brown.edu. Microsoft Software Licensing If you are looking for a title not listed in the catalog, email Software_Services@brown.edu - they might know of other licenses on campus or be able to negotiate with an existing vendor. Data Protection and Security Back to Top Information Security Resources Policies, Best Practices & Technical Standards Procedures Emergency Data Requests Computing Incidents Copyright Complaints Security Advisories US CERT: Coordination Center Alerts Bulletins Current Activity Tips Vulnerability Notices SANS: Internet Storm Center @ Risk NewsBites Training Twitter Feed Webcasts Other Symantec's Threats & Risks Listing Microsoft Security Bulletins and Advisories Apple Security Updates Virus Hoaxes on Snopes Security Tools General: Interservices Ports Online Ping & Lookups Open Source Intrusion Detection: Snort OSSEC (TrendMicro) Offered through CIS: Desktop Backup (Druva) SSL Certificates (InCommon) Additional Tools: Secure Remote Access: OpenSSH (open source) Virus & Threat Removal Tools (Symantec) Accessibility recommendations from Brown's Digital Accessibility Working Group Featured Services Back to Top LinkedIn Learning Online Training (formerly Lynda) Online training on technical and business topics Email Encryption (Virtru) Encrypt emails sent from your Brown.edu address. IP Address Management Provide IP addresses for use by servers and end user workstations, routing to campus services and internet and DHCP service for dynamic or reserved IP address allocation. These are broader guides to IT services - if you are looking for help with a specific service, find it in the Service Catalog and click the Online Help link on the service's page. Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... MyBrown Login This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Information for Campus IT Professionals Open details for Information for Campus IT Professionals Bookmark this Page