Skip to Main Content Brown University Office of Information Technology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals MyBrown Login Search Menu Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Search Office of Information Technology About Sub Navigation In This Section OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Careers in IT at Brown View job opportunities About IT at Brown consists of a centralized IT department, The Office of Information Technology; several larger departments with their own IT groups; and distributed IT professionals in academic and administrative departments. The Office of Information Technology (OIT) The Office of Information Technology (OIT) delivers high-quality information technology solutions and services that further Brown University's ability to achieve its mission of excellence in education, research, and public leadership. To this end we strive to: Encourage, enable and drive collaboration both across and beyond Brown through services, training, and tools Empower University decision-makers through transparent access to enterprise data Deploy technology resources creatively in support of Building on Distinction Keep abreast of emerging technologies and practices and drive innovation Develop forward-thinking, innovative strategies to support teaching and learning and state of the art research Provide a robust, reliable, and secure environment OIT is the centralized computing department at Brown, with over 180 staff. OIT supports over 120 services. Interactive Org Chart Leadership Directions to OIT Buildings DCCs and SysAdmins Departmental Computing Coordinators (DCCs) are computer support people within many departments on campus. Usually the DCC has many functions within their department, of which computer support is a fraction of their daily tasks. The DCC Program If a department has a dedicated support person, they are encouraged to designate that person as a Departmental Computing Coordinator. The purpose of this program is to recognize the important role local Coordinators play and to help them do their job. The role of a DCC depends upon the skills and specialization of the Coordinator involved, the needs of the individual department and the time that the appointed Coordinator has available to devote to the task. A Coordinator might act in one or more of the following capacities: Sharing information about campus computing directions, activities and opportunities with other members of the department. Planning or assisting in planning departmental computing directions to meet existing and expected computing needs. Implementing new systems and applications and upgrading existing facilities (e.g., hardware installation and maintenance, programming, software installation, hardware and software upgrades). Training and supporting departmental users (including writing documentation). Administering shared systems such as network servers and printers. Goals of the Program to help DCCs do their jobs to encourage interaction among DCCs for the exchange of ideas and problem-solving strategies to provide a forum in which DCCs can discuss computing issues and trends to provide timely information about campus computing activities, services and directions to make special services available to them Some Services for DCCs Monthly meetings to provide an occasion for getting to know other DCCs, to exchange ideas and questions, and to hear speakers address relevant computing topics and/or issues. Meetings are held on the 2nd Wednesday of every month. An electronic conference to share information among DCCs and with CIS staff. Priority service from CIS in addressing problems. CIS recognizes that DCCs will be resolving problems for others, and to assist DCCs in doing this will give priority to resolving DCC questions over individual users' problems. Specialized training courses covering topics ranging from trouble-shooting computer problems to new products and technologies. Early access to new services and systems before they are generally released on campus by CIS. Involving Coordinators in testing helps DCCs to anticipate usage within their departments and to learn in advance about new services. At the same time it helps CIS uncover unforeseen problems before release. Contact Information The DCC program is currently run by a steering committee of seven DCCs from various disciplines across campus and a CIS liaison. If you would like more information on this program, please contact the CIS DCC liaison. Departmental IT Groups Several larger departments have internal IT groups, including: Advancement BioMed Center for Computation and Visualization Division of Campus Life and Student Services Facilities University Library Advisory Groups IT Advisory Board (ITAB) Council on Computing and Information Technology (ACCIT) Learn more about Advisory Groups Careers in IT at Brown View job opportunities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... MyBrown Login This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Open details for About Bookmark this Page