Skip to Main Content Brown University Office of Information Technology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals MyBrown Login Search Menu Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Search Office of Information Technology Careers with OIT Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Careers with OIT Want to work at The Office of Information Technology? We're looking for talented individuals who are customer service oriented, curious, and engaged with the University mission. Open Positions We currently have the following positions available. Members of the Brown community can log in to Workday to apply. Business Intelligence Engineer CRM System Administrator Data Scientist/Senior Data Scientist Data Scientist /Senior Data Scientist Hardware Services Clerk Identity and Access Management Engineer IT Support Consultant/Senior IT Support Consultant Network Engineer Research Software Engineer Research Software Engineer/Senior Research Software Engineer Senior Integration Developer Senior/Lead Developer Are you a student? Our student positions include technical support, videography, and training. In addition, we have a summer internship program for students from Brown, Rhode Island College and the Community College of Rhode Island. If you have questions about working with us or the OIT summer internship program, you are welcome to email Marjorie at oit-humanresources@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... MyBrown Login This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Careers with OIT Open details for Careers with OIT Bookmark this Page