Skip to Main Content Brown University Office of Information Technology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals MyBrown Login Search Menu Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Search Office of Information Technology Contact Us Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Contact Us IT Service Center / Alumni Help Desk (401) 863-4357 help@brown.edu 5th floor Page Robinson Building Chat with Us Submit a Ticket Search Our Knowledgebase Suggestions Have a suggestion for this website? Let us know! Directions to OIT Buildings Coming to a meeting with the Office of Information Technology? Here's how to find our offices. 200 Dyer Street: Main Offices (1st Floor) Address / Map: 200 Dyer Street, Providence RI 02903 To enter: The main entrance, located right on Dyer St, requires card access or entry via intercom. The reception desk is immediately on your left as you enter. Shuttle: Medical School / 200 Dyer stop, Brown Express and Daytime Connector Route. A Brown ID is required to ride the shuttle. Bike parking: A bike rack is located the back of the building. Parking: Metered parking (quarters, credit card, or app) is available along part of Dyer and throughout Downcity, to the north of the building. Visitors can also pay to park in the lot adjacent to 200 Dyer (hourly rate) as well as at the South Street Landing Parking Garage (entrance on Eddy Street - hourly rate) and 222 Richmond Street Parking Garage (entrances on Elm and Eddy Streets - hourly rate). 180 George Street: CCV Address / Map: 180 George Street To enter: Limited by card access; the person you are meeting with will let you in. Shuttle: School of Engineering Stop, Brown Connector Route Bike parking: A bike rack is available in front of the building. Parking: Metered parking (quarters, credit card, or app) is available. For parking longer than two hours, there is a visitor parking lot on the corner of Thayer and Power (map) that is about a ten minute walk. Dyer House: Media Services and IT Service Consultants Address / Map: 150 Power Street Shuttle: Brook & Power stop, Connector Route Bike parking: There is a bike rack behind the building. Parking: Free parking is available on nearby streets. For parking longer than two hours, there is a visitor parking lot on the corner of Thayer and Power (map) that is about a three minute walk. Page-Robinson Hall: IT Service Center Address / Map: Corner of Brown and Waterman St., 5th floor To enter: The door is on Brown Street. Shuttle: Hillel House Stop, Brown Express Route Bike parking: A bike rack is available in front of the building. Parking: Metered parking (quarters) is available on nearby streets. For parking longer than two hours, there is a visitor parking lot on the corner of Thayer and Power (map) that is about an eight minute walk. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Faculty & Researchers Staff Campus IT Professionals Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Help Tools & Services Alerts Phish Bowl Announcements About OIT Leadership Contact Us Careers with OIT Policies Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For... MyBrown Login This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Contact Us Open details for Contact Us Bookmark this Page