Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Services Home Services Support Security & Policy Teaching & Learning News About Us Quick Links and Search How can we help? Search IT@Cornell Go Quick Login More Login Links Canvas Cornell Box Faculty Center G Suite (Student Email) NUBB (student Internet use billing) Outlook on the Web Secure File Transfer Student Essentials Workday Zoom more links Services for... Students Faculty Staff IT Professionals Alumni & Visitors CU VPN Learn More Install CU VPN Connect to CU VPN Test CU VPN Before You Travel CU VPN Secure connection to Cornell's IT resources hosted on campus Two-Step Login is required for all users to authenticate to the CU VPN. Use these links for directions on how to complete the new login screen for CU VPN: Mac Windows Linux Mobile devices Use Cornell's virtual private network (VPN) service when you need to connect to IT resources hosted on campus, resources that would otherwise be unavailable from distant networks. CU VPN provides an added layer of security for accessing services hosted on Cornell's campus networks. For security reasons, a CU VPN session is limited to 10 hours, after which you will need to reconnect and re-authenticate. Benefits: Encrypts network traffic between your computer and the Cornell IT resources hosted on campus to protect against electronic eavesdropping. Provides secure access to IT resources hosted on campus that would otherwise be unavailable from distant networks. Who Can Use CU VPN CU VPN can be used by students, faculty, trustees, staff, those with sponsored NetIDs, and selected affiliates. It is not available for alumni and retirees. You must have a valid NetID to use CU VPN. If you don't have a NetID--for example, some contractors or vendors--you may be eligible for a Sponsored NetID. Contact the department you're working with for more information. Services That Require CU VPN Here's a short list of services that require Cornell VPN when you're connecting from your home network (or other non-Cornell network): 10-Space Academic Web Hosting (Dynamic or Static) CornellAD Quest ARS Managed Servers (Server Farm) CU Print Perceptive Software via WebNow Shared File Services (SFS) Alertus Desktop campus emergency notification Activating or renewing a license for Windows or any version of Microsoft Office except Office 365 (Your computer will prompt you when this needs to be done; once activated or renewed, licenses are good for 180 days.) Administrator-level access to systems and databases In addition, some department systems may require Cornell VPN when you're off campus. Your department's IT or computer support staff can tell you if any systems have that requirement. VPN and Cloud-Based Applications CU VPN uses split tunneling, meaning only traffic to and from Cornell's IT resources hosted on campus use the VPN tunnel. Cloud-based services and other internet services (not hosted on campus) do not use the CU VPN tunnel. That means most of the university's IT services do not use the CU VPN. For example, Office 365, hosted by Microsoft, does not go over the tunnel. Cloud-based applications are secured using HTTPS, CUWebLogin, or Two-Step Login, but not through CU VPN. Departmental VPNs The departmental VPN option allows units to establish and manage VPNs for exclusive use by their own staff, restricting access to individuals identified by and working within the unit. Departments can have one or more private networks, and individuals can be in as many as the department allows. Service Details CU VPN Cornell's VPN service provides an added layer of security when you're connecting from off campus to university IT resources hosted on campus. (It's required to connect to some services.) Audience(s): Faculty IT Professionals Staff Students Cost: No Fee Regulated Data: Not applicable or information not available. Support Contact: IT Service Desk Phone: (607) 255-5500 Form to Get Help (if you have a NetID) Form to Get Help (if you don't have a NetID) Support Hours: Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm (Eastern Time) Emergency Service Disruptions: After Hours Support CU VPN Articles see all Connect and Troubleshoot Connect Linux to CU VPN Connect to Cornell's VPN using Cisco AnyConnect software. Connect Mac to CU VPN Connect to Cornell's VPN using Cisco AnyConnect software Connect to CU VPN with a Mobile Device Connect to Cornell's VPN using Cisco AnyConnect software. Connect Windows to CU VPN Connect to Cornell's VPN using Cisco AnyConnect software. Can't Install: VPN.pkg Is Damaged When installing the CU VPN software on a Mac, you see a message saying the VPN.pkg is damaged. Guidelines for CU VPN Use for Off-Campus Users of Windows Devices In interests of both conserving the CU VPN service and providing remote end users’ computers with the resources needed to maintain normal operation, CIT recommends using CU VPN to connect... How CU VPN Works Understand how Cornell's VPN service connects you to IT resources hosted on campus. Test CU VPN Before You Travel Make sure Cornell's VPN service is working before you travel. Trouble Accessing Journal, Database, or Library Resources via CU VPN Steps to take if you can't access library resources using Cornell's VPN service Trouble Connecting Using CU VPN Steps to take if you cannot connect using Cornell's VPN service. Install Install CU VPN for Linux Install the Cisco AnyConnect software to connect to Cornell's VPN service. You must have administrative privileges to install the software. Install CU VPN for Mac Install the Cisco AnyConnect software to connect to Cornell's VPN service. You must have administrative privileges to install the software. Install CU VPN for Windows Install the Cisco AnyConnect software to connect to Cornell's VPN service. You must have administrative privileges to install the software. Can't Install: VPN.pkg Is Damaged When installing the CU VPN software on a Mac, you see a message saying the VPN.pkg is damaged. Departmental VPN Set Up a Departmental VPN With a departmental virtual private network (VPN), a Cornell department, college, or unit can establish and manage VPNs for exclusive use by their staff. Add Members to a Group (CornellAD Group Management) Individuals who have access to manage CornellAD groups can add members via the console or web interface. Add Two-Step Login to a Departmental VPN Set up Two-Step Login for your departmental VPN Create a Group in CornellAD How CornellAD administrators can create groups for many purposes, such as controlling who can access certain services, or emailing a group of people. Remove Members from a Group (CornellAD Group Management) Individuals who have access to manage CornellAD groups can remove members via the web interface. Use a GuestID with a VPN GuestID VPN (GID VPN) is a remote-access VPN created exclusively for GuestID users. Unlike CU VPN, which uses Cisco technology, GID VPN uses VPN technology from Fortinet, specifically the... Was this page helpful? Your feedback helps improve the site. YesNo Comments? To share feedback about this page, log in with your NetID. Need assistance with an IT@Cornell service? Contact the Service Desk instead. Support Get Help IT Training Verified Cornell Communications News and Events News TeamDynamix Sandbox Refresh Scheduled for June 3, 2022 CUView Login Unavailable Monday, May 23, 2022, from 8:20-9:00am, During System Maintenance Live Transcription Now Available in Microsoft Teams more... Events No upcoming events. Having an IT-related event? Submit it here! Follow IT@Cornell... Facebook Twitter Yammer Log In Site Information Contact Webmaster Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance CIT Staff Intranet Cornell University ©2022