Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Services Home Services Support Security & Policy Teaching & Learning News About Us Quick Links and Search How can we help? Search IT@Cornell Go Quick Login More Login Links Canvas Cornell Box Faculty Center G Suite (Student Email) NUBB (student Internet use billing) Outlook on the Web Secure File Transfer Student Essentials Workday Zoom more links Services for... Students Faculty Staff IT Professionals Alumni & Visitors Wi-Fi Learn More My Computers Check Wi-Fi on Your Connected Devices Wi-Fi Connect to a wireless network while on campus Get Online Connect to eduroam, Cornell's secure wireless (Wi-Fi) network, to access the Internet, keep everything you do online private, and use your eduroam account at other eduroam institutions. Select the eduroam Wi-Fi network. Sign in with your NetID@cornell.edu and NetID password. Accept the network-access.it.cornell.edu certificate and you are online. If you need detailed instructions (including smartphones and iPads), see the instructions at the right. Some Linux operating systems do not automatically accept the certificate for eduroam. Visiting Cornell? Access instructions for visitors using Wi-Fi. Who can use the Wi-Fi networks at Cornell? Faculty, staff, students (with NetID) Alumni Visitors GuestID eduroam Secure Wi-Fi. Fast, private connections. Used by visitors from participating eduroam institutions. Available on many campuses around the world. X X (if registered at an eduroam institution) Cornell-Visitor Non-secure Wi-Fi. Best used only when secure Wi-Fi is not an option. Your data transmissions are not private and could be intercepted by others. X X X RedRover Non-secure Wi-Fi. Best used only when secure Wi-Fi is not an option. Your data transmissions are not private and could be intercepted by others. X X X Confidential information and Wi-Fi: Secure Wi-Fi is required for certain types of data as stated in University Policy 5.10, The Security of Electronic University Administrative Information. The eduroam network meets the requirements of this policy. Service Details Wi-Fi Audience(s): Alumni Faculty IT Professionals Staff Students Visitors Cost: No Fee: See details about fees Regulated Data: See the Regulated Data Chart for Cornell policy considerations for this service. Support Contact: IT Service Desk Phone: (607) 255-5500 Form to Get Help (if you have a NetID) Form to Get Help (if you don't have a NetID) Support Hours: Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm (Eastern Time) Emergency Service Disruptions: After Hours Support Wi-Fi Articles see all eduroam (Secure Wi-Fi) Connect to eduroam (Android) Connect to the Eduroam secure wireless network using an Android device. These steps also work for Chromebook. Connect to eduroam (iPhone, iPad, iPod-Touch) Connect to the eduroam secure wireless network with an iPhone, iPad, or iPod-Touch. Connect to eduroam (Mac) Connect to the eduroam secure wireless network with a Mac. Connect to eduroam (Windows 10) Connect to the eduroam secure wireless network with Windows 10. eduroam Details and Participating Institutions Eduroam is a secure, world-wide roaming access service for the research and education community. It allows students, researchers, faculty, and staff from participating institutions to obtain... Linux Certificate Workaround for eduroam Some Linux operating systems do not automatically accept the certificate for eduroam. CIT does not officially support end-user Linux devices, but we can supply some general guidance as follows... Password Not Accepted User Experience When I try to connect to eduroam, my password is not accepted and the connection fails. I know I'm typing my password correctly. How to Solve this Problem... Problem: Android Users Can't Connect to eduroam There are a number of factors that may prevent you from connecting. Some users of Android OS 7.0, 7.1, and 8.0 who have also installed the eduroam CAT app find that they cannot connect to... Problem: Daily Network Registration Emails Only applies to Windows 10 Unable to Connect to eduroam at Cornell or Other Participating Institutions (Windows) Troubleshoot your eduroam connection at Cornell or other campuses. Verify Certificate Trust the eduroam certificate the first time you connect using an iOS device. RedRover Wi-Fi Connect to RedRover (Android) Connect to the RedRover wireless network with an Android device. Connect to RedRover (iPhone, iPad, iPod-Touch) Connect to the RedRover wireless network with an iPhone, iPad, iPod-Touch. Connect to RedRover (Mac) Connect to the RedRover wireless network with a Mac. Problem: Daily Network Registration Emails Only applies to Windows 10 Turn Off RedRover in a Classroom Blocking access to the campus Wi-Fi network in classrooms has been discussed by policy administrators. The effective method to block access to communication is to use software on the classroom devices. Visitor Wi-Fi Connect to Cornell-Visitor Wi-Fi When visiting Cornell, connect to the Cornell-Visitor wireless network. SSL Error Connecting to Cornell-Visitor When connecting to the Cornell-Visitor Wi-Fi network, you see an error mentioning “securelogin.arubanetworks.com." Visiting Cornell: Which Wi-Fi Network to Use? Visitors who have access to eduroam from their home institution can connect to the eduroam network. All others should use the Cornell-Visitor network. Register and Connect Register Your Computer or Mobile Device This information applies to wired connections and the Red Rover wireless network only. Dynamic DNS The Student Wired and Wi-Fi Network services manage network use via Dynamic DHCP and do not provide static IP assignments. This means that users will not receive a static IP... Notice That I Authenticated a Device on the Network and I Didn't Register a Device All devices connected to the Cornell network must be registered. Problem: Daily Network Registration Emails Only applies to Windows 10 Register a Device That Doesn't Have a Browser Cornell University Policy 5.7, Network Registry, requires registration of all devices connected to the network. Use this procedure to register a device that does not have a browser, for example a video game console or an Internet TV device. Remove a Device Registered to Me Remove a device that has been registered to me for use on the Cornell network. See My Devices Registered on the Cornell Network To see the devices you have registered on the network, go to the My Computers page. Troubleshooting Linux Certificate Workaround for eduroam Some Linux operating systems do not automatically accept the certificate for eduroam. CIT does not officially support end-user Linux devices, but we can supply some general guidance as follows... Password Not Accepted User Experience When I try to connect to eduroam, my password is not accepted and the connection fails. I know I'm typing my password correctly. How to Solve this Problem... Problem: Android Users Can't Connect to eduroam There are a number of factors that may prevent you from connecting. Some users of Android OS 7.0, 7.1, and 8.0 who have also installed the eduroam CAT app find that they cannot connect to... Problem: Cannot Connect to Any Cornell Wi-Fi Network Get Support If you are having trouble connecting, try this: Open a web browser and go to www.cornell.edu. If you have never authenticated, this should force you to the captive portal... Problem: Daily Network Registration Emails Only applies to Windows 10 Problem: Wi-Fi Signal Drops or Weakens Repeatedly You may find that, after connecting to Cornell Wi-Fi, your signal weakens or drops out entirely. One cause is if you have something connected to a USB3 port on your device. USB3 uses... SSL Error Connecting to Cornell-Visitor When connecting to the Cornell-Visitor Wi-Fi network, you see an error mentioning “securelogin.arubanetworks.com." Unable to Connect to eduroam at Cornell or Other Participating Institutions (Windows) Troubleshoot your eduroam connection at Cornell or other campuses. Students Register Your Computer or Mobile Device This information applies to wired connections and the Red Rover wireless network only. Common Billing Questions about NUBB Answer your questions about Network Usage-Based Billing (NUBB). Dynamic DNS The Student Wired and Wi-Fi Network services manage network use via Dynamic DHCP and do not provide static IP assignments. This means that users will not receive a static IP... NUBB Fees and Billing Information for students about how your Internet accounts are billed. NUBB Overview Network Usage-Based Billing Reduce NUBB Usage Tips for minimizing costs by reducing network usage See Your Internet Usage and Billing View your NUBB charges and monitor your internet usage Terms and Conditions for Wired and Wi-Fi Network Service for Students The following terms and conditions apply to all network services at Cornell. All terms and conditions are subject to change. Policies Users of Cornell University's IT resources are... Planning Information Internet of Things (IoT) Best Practices A summary of guidance for units and IoT vendors for deployment where Cornell wireless services are present Wi-Fi / RF Spectrum Use Guidelines at Cornell University This information is intended for IT or facilites staff. End users should contact local IT or facilities staff. This document is intended to provide information about Wi-Fi and other RF... NUBB Common Billing Questions about NUBB Answer your questions about Network Usage-Based Billing (NUBB). NUBB Fees and Billing Information for students about how your Internet accounts are billed. NUBB Overview Network Usage-Based Billing Reduce NUBB Usage Tips for minimizing costs by reducing network usage See Your Internet Usage and Billing View your NUBB charges and monitor your internet usage Was this page helpful? Your feedback helps improve the site. YesNo Comments? To share feedback about this page, log in with your NetID. Need assistance with an IT@Cornell service? Contact the Service Desk instead. Support Get Help IT Training Verified Cornell Communications News and Events News TeamDynamix Sandbox Refresh Scheduled for June 3, 2022 CUView Login Unavailable Monday, May 23, 2022, from 8:20-9:00am, During System Maintenance Live Transcription Now Available in Microsoft Teams more... Events No upcoming events. Having an IT-related event? Submit it here! Follow IT@Cornell... Facebook Twitter Yammer Log In Site Information Contact Webmaster Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance CIT Staff Intranet Cornell University ©2022