Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Services Home Services Support Security & Policy Teaching & Learning News About Us Quick Links and Search How can we help? Search IT@Cornell Go Quick Login More Login Links Canvas Cornell Box Faculty Center G Suite (Student Email) NUBB (student Internet use billing) Outlook on the Web Secure File Transfer Student Essentials Workday Zoom more links Services for... Students Faculty Staff IT Professionals Alumni & Visitors Box Share Files Securely and Collaborate on Documents Box is a free service for current Cornell faculty, students, staff, and affiliates that allows you to store, collaborate, and share documents and other files online. Learn More Box Login Share Files in Box Collaborate in Box Box News: Box File Request Feature Changes to Confluence and Box for Improved Security Simplified Sharing for Box Files and Folders Box provides current Cornell faculty, staff, students, and affiliates with a simple way to share critical research, collaborate on group assignments, and manage team files, delivering a consistent user experience across campus. Stay productive while working remotely: A step-by-step tutorial for getting started with Box. Plus, more Box tips for secure remote work. Using Box, You Can Manage and preview files in many formats. Access content through all major browsers, and through mobile devices running iOS, Android, and Blackberry. Share files and folders while controlling access with a range of permissions from preview-only to full editing and collaboration rights. Comment on files. Create simple workflows. Take advantage of related applications and file synchronization tools. Before using Box to store, share, or collaborate with institutional information, review the Regulated Data Chart (Box is listed in the Collaboration Services section). Service Details Box Share your files with free cloud storage, thanks to a campus-wide license. Best for: Storing and sharing large numbers of documents. provides tools to easily edit common files in Office on the desktop or in Office Online. Can share files with anyone with an email address / collaborate with other institutions. Excellent security for your data with encryption of your data both in transmission and while stored in the cloud, detailed auditing of who has acted on and viewed your files, watermarking of files, and view-only files that you can prevent others from downloading. Audience(s): Faculty IT Professionals Staff Students Cost: No Fee Regulated Data: See the Regulated Data Chart for Cornell policy considerations for this service. Support Contact: IT Service Desk Phone: (607) 255-5500 Form to Get Help (if you have a NetID) Form to Get Help (if you don't have a NetID) Support Hours: Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm (Eastern Time) Emergency Service Disruptions: After Hours Support Compare to: 1 Shared File Services Best for: University (mission data) that needs to be stored in a secure, central location. Files you want to share within your department or with other departments at the University. 2 Managed Servers Best for: Servers that you don't want to manage yourself and do want to maintain on campus. Also used for: Disaster recovery Backups Virtual or physical servers Cost: Comparison Box Shared File Services Managed Servers Cost: No Fee For Fee For Fee Audiences: Comparison Box Shared File Services Managed Servers Alumni: Faculty: IT Professionals: Staff: Students: Visitors: Box Articles see all Get Started with Box Assign Tasks in Box Box makes it easy to share your ideas and collaborate on projects together, all in one secure location. For more information about assigning tasks in Box, view the vendor's article on Adding... Box Departmental Folders Box makes it easy to share folders. It’s quite likely that the folder list that you see in Box is a mixture of your folders and those that other people have shared with you. For personal... Box Feature: Request Files You can easily create a location where anyone can send you files; they don't even need to have a Box account. You can give people a link or put a widget on most websites, blogs, or social... Collaborate in Box How to work as a team and share files and tasks in Box Cornell-Specific Information about Box Shared Links The Cornell default link is 'people in this folder', i.e. people who already have access. You have to make an explicit decision to make the links more open. A standard Box shared... Delete Items in Box and Restore from Trash Box has a Trash you can send items to when you don't need them anymore. You can restore items from Trash to your account for thirty days, after which they are permanently deleted. See Box's... Download Files and Folders from Box You can download files or folders from Box to your computer or device. You may want to do this when the content no longer needs to be shared with multiple people through Box, but you'd like... Edit Files in Box Box allows you to edit some file types directly in Box. For more information see the vendor's article, Opening and Editing Files in Box Edit. Editing Microsoft Office Files in Box Box is seamlessly integrated with Microsoft Office Online. With this integration, you can create, edit, and save Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files directly in Box. Plus, teams can co-... Get Started with Box Drive The vendor's documentation recommends that you uninstall Box Sync before installing Box Drive. Cornell's installer takes care of this for you. If you already had Box Drive installed, you do... Log In to Cornell Box If you are part of Weill Cornell Medicine, do not click Continue. Instead, click Collaborate with your Ithaca colleagues by signing into your Weill Box account, then log in with your Weill email... Manage Box Files and Folders The vendor's website contains useful information on how to manage Box files and folders. See their Managing Files and Folders page for links to several articles. Move Files from a Different File Sharing Service to Cornell Box You will have to download the content from your previous file sharing service, and then upload the content to your Cornell Box account. For more information see How to Upload Files to Box. Organize Your Box Folders People who use Box eventually find themselves faced with a long list of folders and files, which can make it difficult to find what you're looking for. Here are some clutter-conquering... Set Box Collaboration Permissions Change collaborator access levels in Box Set Email Notifications in Box You can configure Box to notify you when certain items happen. See the vendor's Manage Account Settings article for details. Set Folder Access Levels See the Box article on Folder and Account Sharing Settings, which includes information on setting folder access and related topics. Set Up Box Sync We recommend Box Drive rather than Box Sync. You cannot use both. View the IT News article Box Drive Feature: Mark for Offline. Get Started with Box Drive. Setting... Share Files in Box See the Box article on sharing files via links. Trash In File Collaboration Services is Eventually Automatically Deleted Files placed in the Trash or Recycle bin for Cornell's Box, OneDrive for Business, SharePoint, and Google Drive will automatically be deleted permanently after a set amount of time. Permanent... Updates to Box Edit / Box Tools (2018) What are the differences between Box Edit, Box Sync, and Box Drive? Box Edit is an add-on feature that allows you to open and edit files stored in Box. Designed for all file types,... Upload Files to Box Step-by-step instructions on how to upload files can be found in the vendor's article on uploading files to Box. Policies for Box Use Box Terms of Service Before using Box to share, store, or collaborate with institutional information, review the Regulated Data Chart (Box is listed in the Collaboration Services section). Visit the Box... Cornell Box Policy Because Cornell Box is an easy way to store and collaborate on files that can be accessed from almost anywhere, it's ideal for a wide range of university work. Be a good custodian of institutional... Box on Mobile Devices Box Mobile Apps Box has two levels of apps that work with their service: Box Official Apps are developed and supported by Box. Most are available for you to use, however some of the apps require... Use Box on a Mobile Device If you attempt to access Box from a mobile web browser, it will always redirect to m.box.com, the Box mobile site, even if you typed in the address for Cornell Enterprise Box (cornell.box.com).... Your Box Account Box Account Types: Cornell Enterprise or Personal Cornell Enterprise Account Cornell University Enterprise Box accounts are available to current faculty, staff, and students. Cornell Enterprise Accounts provide more storage space and... Connect Google Docs to Box Box provides instructions for configuring your Box account to use with Google Docs. How to upgrade if you've been using the previous integration. How to start using... Frequently Asked Questions About Box Get answers to your questions about Box Get Started with Box Drive The vendor's documentation recommends that you uninstall Box Sync before installing Box Drive. Cornell's installer takes care of this for you. If you already had Box Drive installed, you do... Leaving Cornell? What to do with your Box account when you leave Cornell Log In to Cornell Box If you are part of Weill Cornell Medicine, do not click Continue. Instead, click Collaborate with your Ithaca colleagues by signing into your Weill Box account, then log in with your Weill email... Set Email Notifications in Box You can configure Box to notify you when certain items happen. See the vendor's Manage Account Settings article for details. Set Up a Cornell Box Account If You Have a Personal Account Instructions to combine or separate your personal Box account and your Cornell Box account Troubleshooting Box Problem: Error in the Script on this Page User Experience A few users have reported getting an error when re-installing Box Drive on Windows 10. [[{"fid":"11426","view_mode":"wysiwyg","fields":{"format":"wysiwyg","... Box Problem: When You Can't Accept an Invitation to Collaborate What to do when you receive a Box file invitation you can't accept Ownerless Content Box Content With No Owner To meet Cornell's contractual obligations and ensure efficient use of university IT resources, CIT is required to delete ownerless, unneeded content from Box. ... Box Ownerless Content Frequently Asked Questions How does content in Box end up without an owner? Ownerless content became that way when the owner left the university without transferring ownership to someone else. How can you tell... Download Files and Folders from Box You can download files or folders from Box to your computer or device. You may want to do this when the content no longer needs to be shared with multiple people through Box, but you'd like... Help a Non-Collaborator Become a Box Folder Owner If you've received a notification that you have access to content in Box that will be deleted because it has no owner, and the person who should be the owner isn't currently a collaborator (... Collaborate Work with your colleagues more easily than email attachments. Set your preferences Control access, notifications, and all your other preferences. Superior Leading the field in features and quality. Was this page helpful? Your feedback helps improve the site. YesNo Comments? To share feedback about this page, log in with your NetID. Need assistance with an IT@Cornell service? Contact the Service Desk instead. Support Get Help IT Training Verified Cornell Communications News and Events News TeamDynamix Sandbox Refresh Scheduled for June 3, 2022 CUView Login Unavailable Monday, May 23, 2022, from 8:20-9:00am, During System Maintenance Live Transcription Now Available in Microsoft Teams more... Events No upcoming events. Having an IT-related event? Submit it here! Follow IT@Cornell... Facebook Twitter Yammer Log In Site Information Contact Webmaster Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance CIT Staff Intranet Cornell University ©2022