Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Knowledge Base Article Home Services Support Security & Policy Teaching & Learning News About Us Quick Links and Search How can we help? Search IT@Cornell Go Quick Login More Login Links Canvas Cornell Box Faculty Center G Suite (Student Email) NUBB (student Internet use billing) Outlook on the Web Secure File Transfer Student Essentials Workday Zoom more links Services for... Students Faculty Staff IT Professionals Alumni & Visitors Connect to Cornell-Visitor Wi-Fi When visiting Cornell, connect to the Cornell-Visitor wireless network. This article applies to: Wi-Fi Visitors from eduroam-participating institutions: Connect to the eduroam secure Wi-Fi network using your credentials from your home institution. You do not need to register as a guest or obtain Cornell credentials to use eduroam. Other visitors: Register to use the Cornell-Visitor network. Follow the steps below. Select Cornell-Visitor from the list of available Wi-Fi networks on your device. A browser window should open automatically. You should see the Cornell-Visitor registration screen. Enter your name and email address and then check the box that you accept the terms of use. Click Register. You'll see a confirmation screen. Click Log In. Because this is a visitor network, you will need to register your device daily. About this Article Last updated: Friday, July 10, 2020 - 2:39pm Audience: Alumni, Visitors Operating System: Android, iOS, Linux, Macintosh, Windows Wi-Fi Articles see all Visitor Wi-Fi Connect to Cornell-Visitor Wi-Fi When visiting Cornell, connect to the Cornell-Visitor wireless network. SSL Error Connecting to Cornell-Visitor When connecting to the Cornell-Visitor Wi-Fi network, you see an error mentioning “securelogin.arubanetworks.com." Visiting Cornell: Which Wi-Fi Network to Use? Visitors who have access to eduroam from their home institution can connect to the eduroam network. All others should use the Cornell-Visitor network. Was this page helpful? Your feedback helps improve the site. YesNo Comments? To share feedback about this page, log in with your NetID. Need assistance with an IT@Cornell service? Contact the Service Desk instead. Support Get Help IT Training Verified Cornell Communications News and Events News TeamDynamix Sandbox Refresh Scheduled for June 3, 2022 CUView Login Unavailable Monday, May 23, 2022, from 8:20-9:00am, During System Maintenance Live Transcription Now Available in Microsoft Teams more... Events No upcoming events. Having an IT-related event? Submit it here! Follow IT@Cornell... Facebook Twitter Yammer Log In Site Information Contact Webmaster Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance CIT Staff Intranet Cornell University ©2022