Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Services Home Services Support Security & Policy Teaching & Learning News About Us Quick Links and Search How can we help? Search IT@Cornell Go Quick Login More Login Links Canvas Cornell Box Faculty Center G Suite (Student Email) NUBB (student Internet use billing) Outlook on the Web Secure File Transfer Student Essentials Workday Zoom more links Services for... Students Faculty Staff IT Professionals Alumni & Visitors Zoom Zoom is a full-featured web and video conferencing service that offers online meetings and webinars. Features include polling, breakout rooms, and a wide variety of audio options. Learn More Schedule a Meeting Zoom Login Request License for Large Meeting, Webinar, or Premium Audio Work Remotely with Zoom Install Zoom Software Keep your Zoom meetings and webinars private and safe from unwanted attendees and Zoombombing. Stay up-to-date on the latest IT News articles about Zoom updates and changes. Zoom is provided free of charge for current faculty, staff, students, and affiliates at all Cornell campuses. To get started, activate your Cornell Zoom account. You can join meetings by using your web browser or with the Zoom software (how to install). Attendees of Zoom meetings do not need to be affiliated with Cornell. Quick-start guides for teaching with Zoom Weill Cornell Medicine faculty and staff instructions for Zoom Note: Alumni are not included in the Cornell Zoom license. Meetings vs. Webinars A meeting is a Zoom event where one person is the host and all other participants generally have equal footing. The host can share hosting responsibilities with other participants. Any participant can share their screen, subject to the host's security settings. A webinar, on the other hand, is a more controlled environment, where hosts, co-hosts, and panelists share audio, video, or screen with participants whose interaction is limited to features like polling and Q&A. For additional detail, visit What's a Zoom Meeting? What's a Zoom Webinar? Licenses The first time they log in to the Zoom website, all faculty, staff, students, and affiliates will be provisioned with licenses that allow them to conduct meetings with up to 300 participants. Video is available. Audio is limited to "join by computer" and calling a toll (long-distance) number. A variety of license upgrades are available. View Zoom training held at Cornell. Service Details Zoom Audience(s): Faculty IT Professionals Staff Students Cost: No Fee Regulated Data: Not applicable or information not available. Zoom Articles see all Privacy and Security Tips Checklist: Keep Your Zoom Meeting Secure Learn More Other articles that can help you protect meetings and courses: Zoom Security Features: Reduce the Odds of Zoombombing All Zoom Privacy and Security articles... Zoom Security Features: Reduce the Odds of Zoombombing Increase the security of your Zoom sessions to reduce the chance of unwanted attendees (i.e., Zoombombing). We recommend using as many of these options as you reasonably can without impacting your course or meeting. Admit Zoom Attendees from a Waiting Room Zoom's Waiting Room feature lets the meeting host decide when a participant joins the meeting. People who try to join a meeting without first signing into their Cornell Zoom account... Override Defaults for Zoom Screen Sharing and Annotation In Cornell Zoom, by default only the host can screen share, and screen annotation is turned off. You can change these settings. Allow Attendee Screen Sharing To allow... Remove an Attendee from a Zoom Meeting If you need to remove an uninvited or disruptive attendee from a Zoom meeting: Open the Participants window if it's not already open by clicking Manage Participants in the Zoom meeting... Require Authentication to Join Zoom Meetings Requiring your attendees to authenticate by being signed in to Zoom with a Cornell NetID and password can make your Zoom meeting more secure. It can also save you... Zoom for Teaching How to Use a Zoom Room Zoom Rooms provide an advanced set of online visual collaboration features, including two displays of your Zoom meeting: A dedicated Gallery view shows the Zoom meeting's on-... Zoom Rooms at Cornell "Zoom Rooms" are a new dedicated classroom technology from Zoom that give instructors the option to better coordinate their visual collaboration—video screen sharing, whiteboards, and... Add a Zoom Room to an Outlook Meeting When you schedule a Zoom meeting for a course, it is important also to book the Zoom Room as a location for your recurring course meeting. You can do this by using Outlook to send an... Advanced Features in Zoom When Sharing Your Screen When you share your screen in Zoom, there is an advanced screen sharing option. When you click Share Screen, at the top of your sharing selection window there is an Advanced tab.... Join a Zoom Meeting from a Zoom Room For those teaching in person with an online component, it is important to connect the Zoom Room-equipped teaching space to the scheduled online Zoom meeting. Instructors can either... Remote Course Resources Cornell’s Center for Teaching Innovation supports the Cornell teaching community with individualized services, programs, institutes, and campus-wide initiatives. Their Video and Multimedia ... Trim Zoom Cloud Recording Start and End Points in Canvas Change the beginning and end points of your cloud recordings in Canvas to remove unnecessary material before sharing with others. Use Multiple Views in Zoom Cloud Recordings Imported into Video on Demand Zoom Cloud Recordings are automatically uploaded to Cornell’s Video Hosting and Sharing / Video on Demand (VOD) service, where the media can be added to a media owner’s channels and shared... Use the Zoom Room Whiteboard Zoom Room Whiteboard Controls This article provides information about using the whiteboard feature found in the Zoom Room app's touch panel interface. For information about using the... Zoom Live Automated Captions and Transcriptions As of January 2021, the Live Transcription feature, which includes automated captioning, is enabled for all Cornell Zoom hosts by default. Zoom offers the ability to provide real-time... Zoom Rooms: Annotate a Shared Presentation Instructors can share a presentation from their laptop and annotate it in the Zoom meeting. If they have not already done so, meeting hosts must Enable Annotation of Shared Content in a... Zoom Rooms: Board Cam Zoom Rooms have been outfitted with a document camera aimed to deliver a view of the physical blackboards or whiteboards in the teaching space. In the Zoom Rooms application, this camera... Zoom Rooms: Screen Mirror an iOS Device The Zoom Room can mirror the screen content of an iOS device, such as an iPad or iPhone, to the meeting. Tutorial Video: "Using Zoom Rooms: iOS Mirroring" Watch this video iOS... Attend Meetings & Webinars Activate Zoom Account This article describes how to activate your Zoom account, which you will need to do once before you can run a meeting or webinar. Install Zoom Software You will need to install the Zoom software before you can attend (participate in) a Zoom meeting or webinar. Join a Zoom Meeting or Webinar Be sure you have logged in to the Cornell Zoom website before joining Cornell-related Zoom meetings or webinars. Joining a Zoom meeting or webinar is generally as easy as: clicking... Work Remotely with Zoom Whether for personal reasons (illness, family care, etc.) or broader situations (pandemic, severe weather, etc.), you may need to be able to connect to the university from remote locations. This article summarizes how Zoom can help with that. Advanced Features in Zoom When Sharing Your Screen When you share your screen in Zoom, there is an advanced screen sharing option. When you click Share Screen, at the top of your sharing selection window there is an Advanced tab.... Can Zoom Call Me? This is not part of the standard license, but can be requested by staff or faculty demonstrating a business need. See our Request Large Meeting, Webinar, or Premium Audio article. Check Your Zoom Application Version and Upgrade to the Most Recent Version To ensure that you are taking advantage of Zoom’s latest video and security features, keep your desktop client application updated to the most recent version. Beginning November 1, 2021,... Cornell Zoom Accounts vs. Personal Zoom Accounts Zoom users should be aware of the important distinction between Cornell-authenticated Zoom accounts (that is, those created through cornell.zoom.us or the Canvas platform) and personal Zoom... Create Closed Captioning as a Participant in Zoom Meetings If the meeting host assigns you this role, you can enter real-time closed captioning during Zoom meetings. Here's how. Does Zoom Include Toll-Free Calling? This is not part of the standard license, but can be requested by staff or faculty demonstrating a business need. See our Request Large Meeting, Webinar, or Premium Audio article. Log In to Zoom App You can log in through the Zoom app (assuming you have downloaded the app) or through the Zoom website. Both methods work fine, so use whichever you prefer. Alumni are not included in the... Login for Weill Cornell Zoom Weill Cornell faculty and staff can sign up for Zoom at https://its.weill.cornell.edu/services/online-collaboration/zoom. Transfer Files During Zoom Meetings In-meeting file transfer allows attendees to send files during Zoom meetings and webinars through the Chat panel. Files can be sent to all participants or directly to another specific attendee... Zoom Audio Help Topics Test your system, Join by computer, Join by telephone, Mute audio, etc. Zoom Recording Help For students, Cornell Zoom recordings can be created only in your local storage. Faculty and staff who attend a meeting can create recordings in local storage if the host has given them that permission. Faculty and staff who host a meeting can choose local or cloud storage for their recording. Zoom Training Webinars Free, vendor-provided live training for hosts and participants. Zoom Video Help Topics Test your system, Change layout, Turn camera off/on, etc. Manage Meetings & Webinars Checklist: Keep Your Zoom Meeting Secure Learn More Other articles that can help you protect meetings and courses: Zoom Security Features: Reduce the Odds of Zoombombing All Zoom Privacy and Security articles... Host a Zoom Meeting The following link will take you to the vendor's help documentation: How Do I Host a Video Meeting? Designate Someone to Be an Alternative Host or a Co-Host... Install Zoom Software You will need to install the Zoom software before you can attend (participate in) a Zoom meeting or webinar. Request Large Meeting, Webinar, or Premium Audio for Zoom A variety of free license upgrades are available to users with a business need. Schedule a Zoom Meeting Links to plan, host, or schedule a Zoom meeting. Includes links to the vendor's instructions and information about Zoom Webinars. Web and Video Conferencing Comparison Chart Chart comparing Zoom and Standards-Based Video Conferencing features and recommended uses. Zoom Rooms at Cornell "Zoom Rooms" are a new dedicated classroom technology from Zoom that give instructors the option to better coordinate their visual collaboration—video screen sharing, whiteboards, and... Zoom Security Features: Reduce the Odds of Zoombombing Increase the security of your Zoom sessions to reduce the chance of unwanted attendees (i.e., Zoombombing). We recommend using as many of these options as you reasonably can without impacting your course or meeting. Add Zoom Session to Meetings Scheduled in Outlook You can add Zoom Session information to your meetings scheduled in Outlook. The steps listed below assume you have already scheduled the Outlook meeting and are going back to add the Zoom info,... Can Zoom Hosts Prepare a Webinar Room in Advance? Yes. Change Ownership of a Zoom Meeting or Webinar When simply adding another user as an alternative host of a Zoom meeting or webinar is not sufficient, use the procedures below to change the session’s owner. Both the current and the... Convert Your Zoom Meeting to a Webinar When your Cornell Zoom meeting is a forum which might include participants from outside Cornell or needs to be publicized on the internet, setting it up as a webinar might be more appropriate. Does Zoom Allow Uploading Files? No. Does Zoom Include Toll-Free Calling? This is not part of the standard license, but can be requested by staff or faculty demonstrating a business need. See our Request Large Meeting, Webinar, or Premium Audio article. Enable Annotation of Shared Content in a Zoom Meeting In the interests of Zoom meeting security, annotations are disabled for Cornell Zoom meetings by default. To enable annotations for your Zoom meetings: Log in to your Cornell... Join an H.323/SIP Device in Zoom Dialing In to the H.323/SIP Room Connector On an H.323 Device Dial using one of the following: IP Address only, then enter meeting ID on the welcome screen IP... Live Polling in Zoom Live polls can be set up prior to a webinar, or made on the fly within Zoom. More information can be found on Zoom's Polling Help Center page. Log In to Zoom App You can log in through the Zoom app (assuming you have downloaded the app) or through the Zoom website. Both methods work fine, so use whichever you prefer. Alumni are not included in the... Login for Weill Cornell Zoom Weill Cornell faculty and staff can sign up for Zoom at https://its.weill.cornell.edu/services/online-collaboration/zoom. Provide Manual Closed Captions and Transcription in Zoom You can manually provide closed captioning in real-time during Zoom meetings. Here's how. Room Connector Call-Out for Zoom (replacing Jabber) If you previously used Jabber (which is being discontinued at Cornell) for video conferencing, you should switch to using Zoom's Room Connector features. If you are connecting to... Send Meeting Invitations in Zoom You can install the Outlook plugin to schedule meetings directly from Outlook (more information on Zoom's Use the Outlook Plugin page), or you can copy and paste the meeting invitation in to a new... Transfer Files During Zoom Meetings In-meeting file transfer allows attendees to send files during Zoom meetings and webinars through the Chat panel. Files can be sent to all participants or directly to another specific attendee... Trim Zoom Cloud Recording Start and End Points in Canvas Change the beginning and end points of your cloud recordings in Canvas to remove unnecessary material before sharing with others. Use the Microsoft Zoom Add-in for Outlook Cornell users who want to schedule Zoom meetings using the Outlook calendar can use the Microsoft Zoom Add-in for Outlook to integrate the two applications. The current add-in that integrates Outlook and Zoom is provided by Microsoft. Previously, Zoom offered a Plug-in for Outlook that is no longer supported by Microsoft and Apple. This Zoom plug-in is deprecated and any remaining copies should be removed—follow the instructions under Remove the Deprecated Zoom Plug-In for Outlook below. Be aware that Zoom session settings and details created with the deprecated Zoom plug-in cannot be edited with the new Microsoft add-in. This means that if you need to make changes to an old Zoom meeting that was scheduled with the legacy Zoom plug-in, it is recommended that you simply delete the old meeting and reschedule it using the new Microsoft add-in. Zoom Audio Help Topics Test your system, Join by computer, Join by telephone, Mute audio, etc. Zoom Best Practices Resources for how to conduct and participate effectively in online meetings. Zoom Host Controls Help Topics Lock meeting, Mute all, Allow screen sharing, etc. Zoom Host vs. Co-host What is the difference between a host and a co-host? A host is the “owner” of a meeting or webinar and is the person who can administer the meeting via the host controls. The host is the... Zoom Live Automated Captions and Transcriptions As of January 2021, the Live Transcription feature, which includes automated captioning, is enabled for all Cornell Zoom hosts by default. Zoom offers the ability to provide real-time... Zoom Problem: Meeting Starts Without Me It is still possible for a meeting to start with you (the host) even with Join Before Host disabled. If you have given someone Scheduling Privilege (which allows them to schedule meetings on your... Zoom Recording Help For students, Cornell Zoom recordings can be created only in your local storage. Faculty and staff who attend a meeting can create recordings in local storage if the host has given them that permission. Faculty and staff who host a meeting can choose local or cloud storage for their recording. Zoom Scheduling Help Topics How to schedule, Registration options, Polling options, etc. Zoom Screen-Sharing Help Topics How to share, Sharing sound, Sharing Powerpoint, etc. Zoom Training Webinars Free, vendor-provided live training for hosts and participants. Zoom Video Help Topics Test your system, Change layout, Turn camera off/on, etc. Zoom Video Tutorials Free, vendor-provided videos covering many hosting topics. Zoom: Add a Password to an Existing Meeting That Does Not Have One Increase the security of an already-scheduled meeting by adding a password. This can be done either using the Zoom website, your Outlook Calendar, or one of several Outlook Zoom plugin and add-ins. Zoom: Set Up and Work with Pre-assigned Breakout Rooms Breakout rooms allow meeting hosts to split up meeting participants into as many as 100 separate sessions. The meeting host can choose to split the participants of the meeting into these... Audio Best Practices General Audio Recommendations When possible, use a wired network connection, rather than a Wi-Fi connection. This will generally provide a more consistent and better quality network connection. During the web conference... Know Your Space When part of your session is taking place in a conference room, lecture hall, auditorium, or other large space, the space itself needs consideration to ensure the best possible audio. Manage Your Session When hosting an important session, you have a variety of tools available that can ensure your audio quality remains high. Minimize Background Noise When participating in any web or videoconference or webinar, avoid creating background noise whenever possible. Testing Audio in Advance The most important step to ensure your web conferencing session has the best audio experience it can is to test in advance. If you encounter an issue while testing, identifying the problem ahead of time will provide you with an opportunity to address and resolve it before the actual session. Troubleshooting Audio: Reporting Problems If possible, report the problem while it is happening. It will be easier to diagnose. Change Ownership of a Zoom Meeting or Webinar When simply adding another user as an alternative host of a Zoom meeting or webinar is not sufficient, use the procedures below to change the session’s owner. Both the current and the... Dropped Phone Connection When WiFi is Disrupted When your WiFi connection is inconsistent during a Zoom meeting, for example if you are traveling, consider joining the audio portion of the meeting via your phone. If you loose network... Problem: Meeting Owner Cannot Have Concurrent Meetings in Zoom Overview For Zoom meetings, the meeting owner is the user who either schedules the meeting or has it scheduled on their behalf. The meeting owner also owns any cloud recording of the... Reducing Zoom Data and Bandwidth Use Whether because you're getting Zoom's "Your connection is unstable" warning or because you need to reduce your network usage to stay under a data cap, there are several strategies you can try to reduce your bandwidth and data usage during Zoom meetings. Switch Zoom Account from Zoom.us to Cornell.zoom.us To take full advantage of web conferencing security features offered to you as a member of the Cornell community, your Zoom account should be linked to the Cornell Zoom service. If you signed up for Zoom using the public (non-Cornell) website, zoom.us, you may find yourself identified as a "Guest" and placed into a waiting room or barred from meetings that are set up only for Cornell authorized users. Troubleshooting Canvas-Zoom Integration Issues Instructors or students accessing Zoom through Canvas can encounter issues opening Zoom. This might result in a blank screen area where the Zoom app should appear or an error message indicating... Troubleshooting: Incorrect Domain in Authenticated Users Settings (April 2020) Some Zoom users may be experiencing difficulty joining meetings created between Monday, March 30, 2020, around 10:00am and Wednesday, April 1, 2020, around noon, that required attendees to be... Troubleshooting: Why Did the Zoom Website Show Me a Generic Cookie Privacy Message? Users may see a browser message when logging into the Cornell Zoom website, particularly when in incognito or private browsing mode. This pop-up message provides a link to Zoom’s generic... Web/Video Conference Problem: Audio Echoes User Experience Echoing is heard in the conference. How to Solve this Problem Echoing is generally caused by a participant in the teleconference on a speakerphone creating an... Zoom Alternative Host Removed when Editing a Meeting It's possible to encounter an issue where Zoom removes all alternative hosts when a meeting is edited. The issue occurs only for recurring meetings. This issue is related... Zoom Problem: "You cannot log into your Zoom account using this method" When trying to log into Zoom, you may see an error message, "You cannot log into your Zoom account using this method. Contact your IT administrator for instructions. (2,025)" This occurs... Zoom Problem: Can't Sign In to cornell.zoom.us If you signed up for a free or trial account directly with Zoom and you used your @cornell.edu address for that account, you may find it impossible to log in to Cornell's Zoom service as... Zoom Problem: Not Meeting Host Error Message If someone forwards to you a link for a Zoom meeting, it is possible you will see this error message when you try to use the link: This will only happen when The... Zoom Problem: Users Cannot Cut and Paste Email Addresses into Alternative Hosts Field When Scheduling Meetings When scheduling meetings, users cannot copy and paste a list of alternative hosts into the Alternative Hosts field. App returns "No data" or "Please Enter valid email addresses" message.... Zoom Problem: You See Random Characters Instead of Your Name A known issue exists where a lengthy string (usually 30+ characters) of random letters, numbers, and characters will appear in the attendee list instead of a person's name. This can happen if you... Zoom Training Watch recorded training sessions to learn more about Zoom Training Was this page helpful? Your feedback helps improve the site. YesNo Comments? To share feedback about this page, log in with your NetID. Need assistance with an IT@Cornell service? Contact the Service Desk instead. Support Get Help IT Training Verified Cornell Communications News and Events News TeamDynamix Sandbox Refresh Scheduled for June 3, 2022 CUView Login Unavailable Monday, May 23, 2022, from 8:20-9:00am, During System Maintenance Live Transcription Now Available in Microsoft Teams more... Events No upcoming events. Having an IT-related event? Submit it here! Follow IT@Cornell... Facebook Twitter Yammer Log In Site Information Contact Webmaster Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance CIT Staff Intranet Cornell University ©2022