Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Services Home Services Support Security & Policy Teaching & Learning News About Us Quick Links and Search How can we help? Search IT@Cornell Go Quick Login More Login Links Canvas Cornell Box Faculty Center G Suite (Student Email) NUBB (student Internet use billing) Outlook on the Web Secure File Transfer Student Essentials Workday Zoom more links Services for... Students Faculty Staff IT Professionals Alumni & Visitors Cornell Secure File Transfer Learn More Connect to Cornell Secure File Transfer for files 5 GB or smaller Cornell Secure File Transfer Transfer files securely using Cornell Secure File Transfer About Cornell Secure File Transfer Cornell Secure File Transfer is a secure method for transferring files smaller than 5 GB and allows anyone with a Cornell NetID to send and receive files. Cornell community members can add an external user to a whitelist in Cornell Secure File Transfer so that an external user can also send and receive files. Before using Cornell Secure File Transfer to share, store, or collaborate with institutional information, review the Regulated Data Chart (Cornell Secure File Transfer is listed in the Collaboration Services section). Never send files containing restricted or confidential data as attachments to an email. Using Cornell Secure File Transfer requires a computer with an Internet connection and a recent version of a major web browser. Service Details Cornell Secure File Transfer Transfer files (5 GB max) to anyone with a Cornell NetID Audience(s): Faculty IT Professionals Staff Students Cost: No Fee Regulated Data: See the Regulated Data Chart for Cornell policy considerations for this service. Support Contact: IT Service Desk Phone: (607) 255-5500 Form to Get Help (if you have a NetID) Form to Get Help (if you don't have a NetID) Support Hours: Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm (Eastern Time) Emergency Service Disruptions: After Hours Support Compare to: Box Share your files with free cloud storage, thanks to a campus-wide license. Best for: Storing and sharing large numbers of documents. provides tools to easily edit common files in Office on the desktop or in Office Online. Can share files with anyone with an email address / collaborate with other institutions. Excellent security for your data with encryption of your data both in transmission and while stored in the cloud, detailed auditing of who has acted on and viewed your files, watermarking of files, and view-only files that you can prevent others from downloading. Regulated Data: See the Regulated Data Chart for Cornell policy considerations for this service. Cost: Comparison Cornell Secure File Transfer Box Cost: No Fee No Fee Audiences: Comparison Cornell Secure File Transfer Box Alumni: Faculty: IT Professionals: Staff: Students: Visitors: Cornell Secure File Transfer Articles see all About Cornell Secure File Transfer Using Cornell Secure File Transfer Add or Maintain External Users in Your Whitelist To share files with people who do not have Cornell NetIDs, you will need to add their email addresses to your Cornell Secure File Transfer whitelist. Each Secure File Transfer user maintains his... Grant or Revoke Access to a Previously Uploaded File The sender of a file may optionally grant or revoke access to a file after the file has been uploaded to Cornell Secure File Transfer. You can only grant or revoke access to one file at a... Send and Receive Files (External Users Without a NetID) If you do not have a Cornell NetID, you can use Cornell Secure File Transfer to share files (both send and receive) with a person who has a Cornell NetID—but only if that person has added your... Send and Receive Files (Users with a NetID) If you have a Cornell NetID, you can use Cornell Secure File Transfer to send and receive files from people who have Cornell NetIDs. You can also exchange files with people who do not have a... Using Cornell Secure File Transfer Safely and Securely Using Cornell Secure File Transfer, you can securely send and receive files that contain confidential and restricted information. It is especially important that those who handle such files... Was this page helpful? Your feedback helps improve the site. YesNo Comments? To share feedback about this page, log in with your NetID. Need assistance with an IT@Cornell service? Contact the Service Desk instead. Support Get Help IT Training Verified Cornell Communications News and Events News TeamDynamix Sandbox Refresh Scheduled for June 3, 2022 CUView Login Unavailable Monday, May 23, 2022, from 8:20-9:00am, During System Maintenance Live Transcription Now Available in Microsoft Teams more... Events No upcoming events. Having an IT-related event? Submit it here! Follow IT@Cornell... Facebook Twitter Yammer Log In Site Information Contact Webmaster Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance CIT Staff Intranet Cornell University ©2022