Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Welcome About UMIT Meet the CIO UMIT Leadership Team Divisions & Subunits Projects & Implementations IT Resources IT News Policies & Procedures New to UM Services & Products A-Z Listing Alerts Help & Support Life@TheU Welcome About UMIT New to UM Services & Products A-Z Listing Alerts Help & Support Life@TheU Search Welcome About UMIT Meet the CIO UMIT Leadership Team Divisions & Subunits Projects & Implementations IT Resources IT News Policies & Procedures New to UM Services & Products A-Z Listing Alerts Help & Support Life@TheU CaneID Self-Service Portal Updates Effective May 11, 2022, the CaneID Self-Service portal will display a new look and feel, and University passwords will be reset via the new CaneID identity management solution. Learn More > Academic and Business Continuity at the U The University of Miami has created additional support for remote technologies that allow faculty and students to continue their teaching and learning activities and are a powerful strategy for business continuity during a University disruption. Learn More > COVID-19 Return to Campus Tools The University of Miami has developed new technologies that enable our students, faculty, and staff to safely return to our campuses. All members of the community are required to adhere to safety standards established for the campuses and the workplace. Learn More > New to UM Students, faculty, and staff have quick access to UM systems—such as CaneLink, CaneID Self-Service, Workday, myUM, Blackboard, and many more—at their fingertips. Access UM systems by your role > A New Office 365 Login Experience is Here! UMIT has enabled a new login page for all Office 365 applications and services, including UM email, OneDrive, Teams, and SharePoint sites. Learn More > Don't Get Phished Phishing is a form of fraud in which an attacker tries to learn private information (such as login credentials). The best way to combat scams is to learn what phishing looks like and how to protect yourself. Learn More and Stay Safe Online > Free Software Downloads UMIT provides downloadable software and related services to support teaching, learning, productivity, and research. Many software products are available at no cost to the UM community. Review Available Software Now > ULearn Expansion ULearn has expanded to include over 5,000 professional development courses and video tutorials covering business, compliance, creative, and technology topics. Learn More about ULearn > LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning (LIL) is a user-friendly online platform that helps anyone learn business, software, technology, and creative skills to achieve personal and professional goals. Learn More About LIL > New and Improved Features for Office 365 Learn more about Microsoft Office 365's newest features, and get more information to take full advantage of these improvements and additions. View All O365 Updates > Wireless Networks at the U The University of Miami provides various wireless networks for the UM community. Learn More About UM's Wireless Networks > Collaboration and Cloud-Based Storage Access and share files from any device! UM's collaboration and cloud-storage solutions gives you unlimited space to securely back up your data online—plus, real-time editing and permission-based settings. Learn More About These Solutions > Stay Secure Online Access security awareness articles and videos, review available services, report IT security incidences, learn about security compliance and industry best practices, and much more. Visit the IT Security Website > Help & Support Available 24/7 Many issues can be resolved over the phone or via email since Service Desk technicians have access to remote control software to perform troubleshooting on your computer. Get in touch with UMIT support > WELCOME The vision of University of Miami's Information Technology (UMIT) department is to be the best information technology organization in higher education and healthcare; recognized for strategic leadership, innovation, and collaborative partnerships in achieving the University of Miami's academic, clinical, and research goals. About UMIT Services & Products IT News Help & Support NEWS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS Academic and Business Continuity at the U In the event where students, faculty, and staff may be unable to attend classes, teach, or complete work in a physical setting, we would like the University of Miami community to join us in taking proactive actions to ensure the continuity of our operations. Access technologies for learning, teaching, or working remotely. Phishing at The U: Scam to Look Out For Universities have seen a spike in the "Are You Available?" scam. Check out what this scam looks like, and learn how to protect yourself. New and Improved Features for Office 365 Learn more about Microsoft Office 365 features that are being added this year, and learn how to take advantage of these improvements and additions. New University VPN Solution Available The University has implemented a new enterprise virtual private network (VPN) solution, GlobalProtect VPN, to replace Pulse Secure VPN. IT Alerts Access alerts for various UM systems, including planned maintenances and emergency outages. View the Latest Alerts Accounts & Security Reset your CaneID password, connect to the network, obtain account information/access, and more. Learn More Administrative Applications Access enterprise system applications, business tools to increase productivity, and more. Learn More Customer Service & Support Get support for all of your IT issues, request services, and more. Learn More Email & Collaboration Learn email features, share documents and ideas, build your community, and more. Learn More Hardware Obtain guidance on your hardware purchases, ensure you have the right fit to optimize your responsibilities, and more. Learn More Hosting Back up you your data files, host your web site or server, and more. Learn More Network & Voice View our product offerings for phones, utilize video conferencing, connect to the network, and more. Learn More Software From Adobe products to Microsoft’s Office Suite, view available software to run your device(s). Learn More Third Party Applications Partner with IT for management of third party software applications. Learn More Training Learn how to use your software and become more productive. Learn More Web Learn what is available to promote your organization and services via the web. Learn More Policies & Procedures View/download UMIT's policies and standard operating procedures. Learn More U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Information Technology 1320 S. Dixie Hwy, Suite 1100 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-6565 305-284-6565 help@miami.edu Resources About UM Workday CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices