Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Department of Information Technology Main Menu In this section What's New Services Request Help Documents About IT Staff Directory Home Services Multi-factor Authentication Multi-Factor Authentication Services Need Help? Contact the OSU IT Helpdesk Phone: 405-744-HELP(4357) Fax: 405-744-7861 Toll Free: 1-877-951-4836 (calls cannot be transferred) Email: helpdesk@okstate.edu Location: 421 Classroom Building Walk-in hours are M-F 8 AM to 5 PM. What is multifactor authentication? Multifactor authentication is a method of enhancing the traditional user ID/password combination that has been used for years. DUO provides multifactor authentication (MFA). Multifactor Authentication increases the security of an account by requiring a user to provide multiple forms of authentication. This generally includes something you know (a password) and something you have (such as a mobile device). Because both are required for a successful login, this protects an account by reducing the likelihood of an attacker successfully logging in. The attacker would need to know the user’s password and have access to a physical device that provides the secondary factor in order to complete a successful login. Why is multifactor authentication important to OSU? Securing OSU’s computing environment is more important now than ever. Historically, one of the most often used methods to compromise computer systems is through individual’s user ID’s and passwords. Getting Started A user can log into the OSU Duo portal using their O-Key username and password. Once they log in they are able to sign up for Duo, add a new device, or manage existing devices. Setup Instructions The Step-by-step instructions available include directions for both new Duo users and existing users. The general steps are: Log onto the OSU Duo Portal using your O-Key credentials. Select Add Devices If a device is already set up for your account you will need to authenticate using that method before proceeding to manage your devices. Select the type of device you are adding. Follow on-screen prompts (detailed in the specific help entries) We recommend each user adds a backup device for times where the primary one is not available to them. We also recommend that users set the "When I log in" option to "automatically send this device a Duo Push." Duo Push should be the preferred method when using MFA. Other methods such as "Call Me," "By Passcode," or "Passcode" should only be used when your mobile phone is not available. Available to Campuses Oklahoma State University Stillwater Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Oklahoma State University Tulsa Oklahoma State University OKC Connors State College Langston University Northeastern Oklahoma A&M College Oklahoma Panhandle State University Roles Faculty Staff Students * Associates Alumni *Accounts for people who have applied to any of the campuses but are not accepted are not covered under the license. Frequently Ask Questions What sites and applications may be protected by Multifactor Authentication (MFA)? How do I use the Multifactor Authentication (MFA) sign-up page? What are the methods for authorizing your login when using the Duo product for Multifactor Authentication (MFA)? How do I add a mobile device (Cell Phone) for authorization codes through the Multifactor Authentication (MFA) Portal? How do I obtain a Hardware Passcode FOB for use with Multifactor Authentication (MFA)? How do I add a landline device for authorization codes through the Multifactor Authentication (MFA) Portal? What are my options if I do not have a landline device and my mobile device cannot connect to the OSU network? How do I reactivate Duo/MFA? How do I set up Duo Restore and use the backed up security data should Duo be deleted from a mobile device or a new device is attained. How can I download the DUO Mobile App to my mobile device? How do I authenticate into my account if I have broken or lost my device registered to my Duo/MFA account? How do I enable and authenticate through Multifactor Authentication (MFA) on my mail enabled service account? Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©