Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Department of Information Technology Main Menu In this section What's New Services Request Help Documents About IT Staff Directory Home Services Orange Key Account Services IDMS (O-Key) Account Services Services Need Help? Contact the OSU IT Helpdesk Phone: 405-744-HELP(4357) Fax: 405-744-7861 Toll Free: 1-877-951-4836 (calls cannot be transferred) Email: helpdesk@okstate.edu Location: 421 Classroom Building Walk-in hours are M-F 8 AM to 5 PM. IDMS (O-Key) is the identity account of each individual who has a formal affiliation with Oklahoma State University. The O-Key credentials - Banner ID, O-Key username, email address, and password - are joined in the O-Key account to provide secure single sign-on access to IT and other services. Administratively, O-Key is used to manage access to services based upon the roles of each individual associated with OSU. Details The O-Key credentials are used throughout the IT systems and many others to provide secure single sign-on access to IT services such as my.okstate.edu, the Software Distribution Center, Virtual Labs, the wireless network, Canvas, and many others. This information ties to the ID card for access to campus point-of-sale purchases, authorized controlled access doors, and more. End-users use O-Key to: Reset passwords every 120 days Set up email Set up confidential contacts in case of an emergency Sign up for Campus Alerts - users can receive the alerts about emergencies on campus via a voice message and/or text O-Key administrators use O-key to: Determine access to university services Create service accounts Manage identity issues Other administrative functions Getting Started If you are new to Oklahoma State, you will activate your O-Key account as a first order of business. Open a web browser (such as Microsoft Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Apple Safari, etc.) and log in to your institutions IDMS: O-Key C-Key Gold Key Aggie Access Lion Key Click the link in the section underneath the LOGIN button labeled Activate Your O-Key Account to open the activation function. Follow the prompts for information. If you have not given Admissions your Social Security Number (SSN), please enter the last five digits of the temporary student identification number given in your Eligible to Activate email. When you are asked to enter a PIN number, you should be able to find it in an email from the Registrar’s Office (students) or the Human Resources department (employees). See more information at How do I activate my IDMS (O-Key) account? Forms Identity Verification (pdf) - Do not use unless instructed. IDMS (O-Key) Handbook Available to Role Student ✓ Faculty ✓ Staff ✓ Frequently Asked Questions Account and Password How do I activate my account? How do I change my password? How do I reset my password? Password Creation Tips. How do I request account reactivation? Change Information How do I change my login address? How do I change my name, DOB, SSN? How do I lock my OSU ID card? How do I set up a preferred first name in my account? How do I change my phone password? How do I edit my contact information? How do I edit my confidential contact information? How do I set up a Mobile1 Number in Campus Alerts? How can I get a Banner PIN sent to me? How do I use MS Teams/Groups? How do I request a Global Group? How do I Request an Email Distribution List? How do I perform a Mass Expiration Update of a Global Group? How do I perform a Mass Expiration Update of an Email Distribution Group? Email How do I continue my email forwarding? Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©