Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Office of Technology and Digital Innovation Main menu About Us Leadership Year in Review 2020-2021 Connect with Us News Media Mentions Leadership Blog Strategic Direction University Mission and Vision Technology Roadmap Active Projects Advisory Groups Offerings Policies Join Us Current Openings Working Here Life in Columbus Our Values Our Culture Our People Help IT for Instructors and Staff IT for Students Search form Search Go Breadcrumb navigation Home Offerings Ohio State App Suite Ohio State App Suite Ohio State makes custom apps with your experience in mind. From your first days on campus to your lifelong Buckeye connection, these apps put Ohio State in your pocket. Easily access tools to get around, get business done and get connected to communities across campus and beyond. Learn more about the apps available for download and explore the ones that interest you. Ohio State The Ohio State app is a must-have for all Buckeyes. Use it to catch the next bus, find your way around campus or grab a bite to eat. Don't forget to log in for personalized features including grades and account balances, personalized news, wellness resources and more. New features are being added throughout the year to make your Ohio State experience even better, so be sure to keep your app updated. Download for iOS Download for Android Ohio State: Wellness Find resources, connect to support, set goals and build healthy habits. The Ohio State: Wellness app supports your mental health and well-being on campus. Whether you’re looking to find resources for yourself or someone you care about, the Wellness app is a great place to start. While we've designed this app with current students in mind, it has many resources that are valuable for faculty, staff and community members. Wellness features can also be found in the Ohio State app. Download for iOSDownload for Android The Ohio State Alumni App Ohio State is always in your heart. Now you can put it in your pocket. On the app, you'll find news from campus, stories about your fellow alumni, game watch locations around the globe, ways to join clubs and societies, and a spirit section that includes stickers, ringtones and more to help you cheer on our Buckeyes. Download for iOSDownload for Android Office of Technology and Digital Innovation 100 Mount Hall | 1050 Carmack Road | Columbus, Ohio 43210 Phone: 614-688-4357 Email: OTDI@osu.edu Facebook link for Office of Technology and Digital Innovation Twitter link for Office of Technology and Digital Innovation YouTube link for Office of Technology and Digital Innovation LinkedIn link for Office of Technology and Digital Innovation Instagram link for Office of Technology and Digital Innovation Staff Site Accessibility Statement If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, please call the Accessibility Helpline at 614-292-5000. Privacy Statement