Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Department of Information Technology Main Menu In this section What's New Services Request Help Documents About IT Staff Directory Home Services Remote Access Working from Home Services Need Help? Contact the OSU IT Helpdesk Phone: 405-744-HELP(4357) Fax: 405-744-7861 Toll Free: 1-877-951-4836 (calls cannot be transferred) Email: helpdesk@okstate.edu Location: 421 Classroom Building Walk-in hours are M-F 8 AM to 5 PM. Information Technology is providing recommendations on tools and settings to work from home. For the best experience you should setup and test your system before solely relying on it. Even when working remotely, consider OSU's Appropriate Use policy as well as state and federal laws like FERPA and HIPAA. Contents Before you leave Staying Connected Maintain security Services VPN Remote Desktop Productivity Communication and Collaboration myOKSTATE Canvas Data Storage Virtual Labs Before you leave Look through this list of common tasks. Your needs may differ depending on the nature of your work. Your department's IT staff may have additional steps or resources available. Enable Remote Desktop on your work computer Confirm that your department and other frequent contacts have your personal contact information. Gather information on Group Drives. Email yourself a copy of important links and bookmarks used for work. Gather information to forward your office phone and access your voicemail. Locate a headset with a microphone for teleconferences and meetings. Ensure your home computer is up-to-date and working properly. Some steps include: Enable antivirus software. (Windows 10 comes with one automatically.) Check for and apply any software updates. Install Office 365 which includes tools like Word, Excel, and Skype for Business. Test connecting to your work computer using Remote Desktop. Staying Connected Right now, many Internet Service Providers (ISPs) are making accommodations for customers having trouble paying their bill. OneNet has a list of local ISPs and how they are assisting Oklahomans. If you experience difficulties, call your ISP. If you are near another higher education institution, they may have ‘eduroam’ Wi-Fi. If they do, you can connect to their ‘eduroam’ Wi-Fi using your O-Key account. View the eduroam Wi-Fi map. Make sure you observe local emergency declarations like shelter in place, before leaving your residence. Maintain Security Be cautious of emails received while working from home. Confirm that messages from OSU members do NOT contain the "External Email" notification. The "External Email" notification will never appear on emails from OSU members. Also be wary of clicking any links contained in unsolicited emails. If you are unsure if an email is legitimate, please forward a copy to abuse@okstate.edu. We will check the email and respond as soon as possible. Services VPN A virtual private network (VPN) is a technology that protects network traffic. When using OSU's VPN your traffic is sent through campus even when at home or another location. When away from campus using OSU's VPN is required for remote desktop and network drives. How to setup OSU's VPN Remote Desktop (VPN Required) Some editions of Windows 10 allow users to connect remotely. It allows you to use a computer as if you were sitting in front of it. You must enable Remote Desktop on the PC before attempting a connection. We recommend testing your Remote Desktop connection from home before relying on it. Setup Remote Desktop Instructions for enabling Remote Desktop for Windows 10 Instructions for enabling Remote Desktop for macOS How to connect using Remote Desktop Remote Desktop from Windows to Windows Remote Desktop from Apple to Windows Remote Desktop from Android to Windows Remote Desktop from macOS to macOS Productivity Office 365 has versions of Word, Excel, and PowerPoint that can run from any browser using your O-Key account. If you need the full program suite see our Office 365 installation instructions. Communication and Collaboration Make sure that people can still easily reach and communicate with you. Tools like Skype for Business can create digital meetings with video and computer screen content. By Phone Setup Call Forwarding Access Voicemail Setup Call Forwarding (via Cisco Unified Communication) - Requires VPN and advanced setup steps Email and Calendar If you use Outlook your OSU mail and calendar will also appear in Cowboy Mail. Messaging and Digital Meeting Skype for Business Microsoft Teams myOKSTATE On campus or at home myOKSTATE will continue to work the same. Banner Administrative users will need to connect to OSU's VPN. Canvas Canvas will work as normal. Instructors should review ITLE's Canvas page about teaching online. Data Storage Individual Online File Storage for Employees Home Drive (VPN Required) Employees have 500 MB of personal network drive space, referred to as your “Home Drive." Sometimes it's called your "H Drive." Learn how to access your Home Drive. Group Drive (VPN Required) Departments have online group file storage - storage area on file servers that is assigned to departments. This storage allows for members of the departments to conveniently share files among themselves. Learn how to work with network drives. Virtual Labs Access the same software as the IT run computer labs. Useful if you cannot access your work PC and need quick access to software. Learn more. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©