Skip to main content Division of Information Technology Search Services IT Services A-Z IT Services Directory Leadership Office of the CIO Chief Information Officer Chief Technology Officer Assistant Chief Information Officer of Operations AVP Enterprise Platforms, Cloud, and Shared Services Chief Information Security Officer AVP Enterprise Networks Assistant Vice President of Product Management Assistant Vice President for IT Academic Operations Chief of Staff Director of IT Finance TAMU Health IT Director Director of Statewide Client Services IT Governance Purpose IT Governance Definitions Committees Special Groups Archived Committees EITC CSCC SPC Audiovisual Surveillance Technology Operational Group IT Policy Review Operational Group ESC RTC SATC Calendar IT Strategy Strategic Initiatives Priority Projects 1. Microsoft (Office) 365 Implementation 2. Aggie Innovation Platform 3. Next Generation Aggie Network Completed Projects New West Campus Data Center Legacy Network Decommission 802.11ac Campus Upgrade 3. Secure Technologies for Aggie Researchers (STAR) NetID Two-Factor Authentication (Duo) University-Wide IT Governance Framework Implementation Campus Firewall Replacement Data Center Resource Migration Plan Self Service Site Strategic Redesign Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Service Desk Renovation SPECTRIM/Archer Implementation University-Wide Information Technology Governance Framework Development About the Division of IT Contact Us Staff Spotlight Reports & Publications News Security Safe Computing Protect Your Device Protecting Desktops & Laptops Protecting Mobile Devices Stay Secure on Public Wi-Fi Protect Your Identity Protect Myself Top 5 Identity Theft Spam Safe Social Networking File Sharing Phishing Emails (& Internet Scams) Protect University Data Protect My Work Top 5 Protecting Confidential Information Discovery and Open Records Protecting the Workplace International Travel Cybersecurity Games CAP CAP Application For IT Professionals Best Practices Compromised System Response Incident Response Plan Policy IT Accessibility Frequently Asked Questions Policy Glossary IT Policy Controls Catalog Controls Review Process Controls Posted for Review Exception Requests Laws and Regulations HIPAA CUI DMCA (current) Local Policy Project Management AV Surveillance AVST Operational Standards TAMU Network Use Acceptable Use Anonymous Proxy Servers Guest Wireless Terms of Use Traffic Engineering NAT Devices Cloud Computing at Texas A&M IT Risk Management Risk Assessment Procedures IT Managed Checklist Non-IT Pro Assessment Checklist Dean/VP Approval Process Reporting & Review Risk Assessment Roles CIO CISO Division Risk Assessment Coordinator Non-IT Professional Risk Remediation IT Continuity of Operations IT Disaster Recovery Unit Level IT DR Planning E-Discovery Overview IT Preservation Holds Preservation Hold Process Public Information Request Community Collaboration IT Communication Campus IT Contacts IT Communication Channels IT Websites Change Management IT Events Tools IT Standards Data Classification + Research Resources Impact Calculator Help Search X X IT Policy IT Risk Management IT Continuity of Operations E-Discovery IT Accessibility IT Policy Controls Catalog Toggle Dropdown Controls Review Process Controls Posted for Review Exception Requests Laws and Regulations Toggle Dropdown HIPAA CUI DMCA Local Policy Toggle Dropdown AV Surveillance TAMU Network Use Cloud Computing at Texas A&M Project Management ? IT Home Policy IT Policy Laws and Regulations DMCA Digital Millennium Copyright Act On This Page Digital Millennium Copyright Act and File Sharing Copyright Infringement Policies and Sanctions When Texas A&M Receives a DMCA Violation Notice About a Student Related Content CUI HIPAA The Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (DMCA) is a legal framework to protect the rights and management of digital works. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and File Sharing File sharing is making files available for others to download. Peer-to-peer (P2P) file sharing makes an individual's computer the host of the files to be shared. By sharing copyrighted materials over the Internet without the consent of the copyright owner, the distributor may be violating the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (DMCA). Most of the software, games, songs and videos obtained through P2P programs are being shared illegally. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) has sued thousands of people for alleged file sharing of copyrighted material. Violators of the DMCA can be punished by substantial fines. Individuals also may be held civilly liable (regardless of whether the activity is for profit) for actual damages or lost profits, or statutory damages up to $150,000 per infringed copyright. Attempting to profit from file sharing can even result in a prison sentence. The Elements of Notification Quoted from Public Law 105-304 (U.S. Code, Title 17, Chapter 5, Section 512) (A) To be effective under this subsection, a notification of claimed infringement must be a written communication provided to the designated agent of a service provider that includes substantially the following: (i) A physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the [copyright] owner... (ii) Identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed... (iii) Identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing ... and information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to locate the material. (iv) Information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to contact the complaining party, such as an address, telephone number, and, if available, an electronic mail address... (v) A statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that the use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law. (vi) A statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and, under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed. To present notification of a complaint, contact the designated agent, James Smith, at dmca@tamu.edu. Copyright Infringement Policies and Sanctions Texas A&M University is committed to maintaining the integrity and availability of the Texas A&M network for the vital educational and research purposes for which it was designed and prohibits the use of its network to violate the law, including the U.S. Copyright Act. The unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material, including unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing, violates the Copyright Act and may subject you to civil and criminal liabilities. Also, the user could be violating the university's Employee or Student Acceptable Use procedures. Copyright infringement is the act of exercising, without permission or legal authority, one or more of the exclusive rights granted to the copyright owner under section 106 of the Copyright Act (Title 17 of the United States Code). These rights include the right to reproduce or distribute a copyrighted work. In the file-sharing context, downloading or uploading substantial parts of a copyrighted work without authority constitutes an infringement. Penalties for copyright infringement include civil and criminal penalties. In general, anyone found liable for civil copyright infringement may be ordered to pay either actual damages or “statutory” damages affixed at not less than $750 and not more than $30,000 per work infringed. For “willful” infringement, a court may award up to $150,000 per work infringed. A court can, in its discretion, also assess costs and attorneys’ fees. For details, see Title 17, United States Code, Sections 504, 505. Willful copyright infringement can also result in criminal penalties, including imprisonment of up to five years and fines of up to $250,000 per offense. For more information, please see the website of the U.S. Copyright Office at www.copyright.gov. Texas A&M’s policies concerning copyright infringement are found in Student Rule 22. Acceptable Use and University Rule 29.01.03.M2 Acceptable Use. Student Rule 24. Student Conduct Code identifies the violation of copyright laws using computing facilities and resources as misconduct subject to disciplinary sanctions as outlined in Student Rule 27. Sanctions. When Texas A&M Receives a DMCA Violation Notice About a Student In compliance with DMCA requirements, Texas A&M University must respond expeditiously to notices of alleged copyright infringement. A student will usually receive an email from Networking and Information Security, notifying them that a copyright holder has sent the university notice of alleged infringement, which identifies the student's IP address. The student then needs to confirm the receipt of the notice and take all appropriate actions. If the student ignores this request, other actions may be taken, including disabling the network connection and convening a required hearing before the Student Conflict Resolution Services (SCRS). SCRS may impose sanctions on the student that may range from a letter of reprimand to expulsion from the university. Need Help with IT Policy? Support From immediate assistance on Security Controls, implementation, or compliance, we’re here to help. View Support FAQs Get answers to frequently asked questions about IT Policy. View FAQs Glossary Follow the letter-of-the-law by understanding specific terms in IT Policy, Risk and Security. View Glossary Services toggle Services menu IT Services A-Z IT Services Directory Leadership toggle Leadership menu Office of the CIO IT Governance Strategic Initiatives About the Division of IT Reports & Publications News Security toggle Security menu Safe Computing Guides Cybersecurity Security Games CAP IT Professionals Policy toggle Policy menu IT Policy IT Risk Management IT Continuity of Operations E-Discovery IT Accessibility Community toggle Community menu IT Events IT Communication Collaboration Careers at the Division of IT Help toggle Help menu View IT Service Alerts Get Tech Help Search the Knowledge Base New Student Tech Guide Stay Connected Give us your feedback, make suggestions, and ask questions. Contact Us Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Services IT Services A-Z IT Services Directory Leadership Office of the CIO IT Governance Strategic Initiatives About the Division of IT Reports & Publications News Security Safe Computing Guides Cybersecurity Security Games CAP IT Professionals Policy IT Policy IT Risk Management IT Continuity of Operations E-Discovery IT Accessibility Community IT Events IT Communication Collaboration Careers at the Division of IT Help View IT Service Alerts Get Tech Help Search the Knowledge Base New Student Tech Guide Stay Connected Give us your feedback, make suggestions, and ask questions. Contact Us Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Texas A&M University Division of Information Technology Site Map Site Policies Accessibility Back to Top