Skip to main content UTexas Home IT@UT Menu UTexas Home The University of Texas at Austin IT@UT Services Expand Contract Services & Consulting Email, Calendar & Collaboration ID, Accounts & Access Network, Media & Telecommunications Security Servers, Storage & Data Software & Applications Teaching, Classroom Technology & Labs Tech Support Web Publishing & Software Development Security Expand Students Expand Faculty & Staff Expand Guidance for Flexible Work Tools IT Staff Expand Projects Expand Metrics Expand Campus IT Policies Expand Search Search Home Faculty & Staff : Guidance for Flexible Work Tools Guidance for Flexible Work Tools This page is designed to provide useful guidance to employees with flexible work arrangements. If you have feedback on this content, please complete this survey. Get the Right Tools Teams Phone Teams phone enables you and your team to make and receive calls from your office phone from anywhere. Desk phone services are also available for on-campus users. Learn more about Voice and Telephone Services. Learn more about Teams Phone Chat and Collaboration Microsoft Teams is the only centrally supported university-wide chat and collaboration tool. Learn more about Microsoft Teams Calendaring Calendaring is available through Outlook in Microsoft 365. Individual calendaring options include creating and accepting meeting invitations with colleagues. Group, or resource, calendaring is available for coordinating vacation schedules among a team. Learn more about Outlook calendaring Duo Duo is required to sign in for many services on campus, including Workday and the UT Directory. Learn more about Duo VPN If you're rarely on campus connecting to the VPN once a week will keep your workstation secure. Learn more about VPN Cloud Storage UT offers two cloud storage solutions, UT Box and Microsoft One Drive. Using one of these two services ensures that your work is securely saved for you to work from anywhere. Learn more about cloud storage Get Help Information and guidance on technology resources available to support current working and teaching conditions: Instructional Continuity FAQ & Resources Guidance for Flexible Work Tools More Coronavirus Resources for Employees Service Desk ITS Service Desk provides IT support services related to EID, DUO, Office 365, email, Qualtrics, Box, and other central IT services. Call us at 512-475-9400 | help@utexas.edu Submit a help request online In-Person Services located at the FAC first floor Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm ID Card Services The ID Center provides ID cards for students, faculty, staff, official visitors and university affiliates as required. The ID Center also upgrades UT EIDs for eligible individuals to allow full access to online services. Call us at 512-475-9400 | ID_Center@utlists.utexas.edu Submit a help request online In-Person Services located at the FAC first floor Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm IT@UT Contact Us Information Technology Services UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022