Skip to main content UTexas Home IT@UT Menu UTexas Home The University of Texas at Austin IT@UT Services Expand Contract Services & Consulting Email, Calendar & Collaboration ID, Accounts & Access Network, Media & Telecommunications Security Servers, Storage & Data Software & Applications Teaching, Classroom Technology & Labs Tech Support Web Publishing & Software Development Security Expand Students Expand Faculty & Staff Expand Guidance for Flexible Work Tools IT Staff Expand Projects Expand Metrics Expand Campus IT Policies Expand Search Search Home Projects Projects Information Technology units achieve projects to provide an unparalleled IT environment and to support world-class research and teaching at The University of Texas at Austin. IT Active and Proposed Projects The IT Active and Proposed Projects listing is a communications tool that provides visibility to IT-driven, non-routine campus-impacting changes. Campus colleagues are welcome to engage with service owners about the project if there is a need for more information or to provide input. While some items are actively in progress, others are tentative pending approval and resourcing. The IT Active and Proposed Projects listing does not include unplanned emergencies and should not be considered comprehensive. The list will be updated on a quarterly basis based on changing university needs. IT Highlighted Projects Details for some projects are listed below. Construction Projects End Date: Non-ending In support of capital construction projects, ITS designs, reviews, inspects, and installs communication infrastructure and systems. For fiscal year 2022-2027, there are 13 capital construction projects worth over $718 million (inclusive of projects such as the Energy Engineering Building, Red River Street Realignment, Moody Center Arena, SEA building addition, Texas Athletics Basketball & Rowing Facility, South End Zone addition, Grad Student Housing Complex) on the UT System Capital Improvement Program (total project costs >$10M) for the UT Austin campus. At any given time there are approximately forty additional active smaller projects (PMCS, ITS, or direct customer engagements). The value provided to the university is connectivity to educate, research, and conduct university business in those new spaces (e.g., wireless/wired Internet access). Endpoint Management (EPM) Centralization and Standardization Program End Date: 12/31/2023 The EPM program is sponsored by Executive Vice President and Provost Sharon Wood and Senior Vice President and CFO Darrell Bazzell and is led and planned by IT representatives from many colleges, schools, and units with the following goals:  Consistent, shared vision and expectations for endpoint management across the campus  Greater security of end-user endpoints, both on and off campus, by moving to secure EPM tools and adopting uniform logging and patching practices  Increased operational efficiency achieved by leveraging a core EPM team to maintain central tools, allowing CSU staff to focus on supporting local needs  Collaborative operational model that relies on shared ownership and knowledge-sharing between the central EPM team and campus units  Guest Authentication Project End Date: Ongoing The Guest Authentication Project will provide an alternate method of authentication for external users who need to access online university resources. The recommended solution is to make external identities consumable by campus applications using a centrally provided gateway. The project team has been working to deploy selected features offered by the selected vendor, Cirrus Identity, to rollout with early adopters. If you are interested in becoming an early adopter of the Guest Authentication Service, please reach out to the Identity and Access Management team. IGA Modernization End Date: Ongoing Identity Governance and Administration (IGA) Modernization is a phased approach to modernize the university's Identity and Access Management (IAM) systems, business processes, data management, and technical architecture. IGA Modernization includes implementing new tools, the transition/retirement of legacy tools, and the bridging and integration work required to maintain IAM services. The first phase will be dedicated to providing support for group and role management. Microsoft 365 Accounts for Students End Date: August 2022 The University of Texas at Austin is excited to offer students a Microsoft 365 account. Currently, students are required to manually create an account using the Microsoft Web Portal to take advantage of these accounts and the suite of applications available in the Microsoft environment. To reduce this barrier to entry and provide access to Microsoft tools on day one, this project will allocate a Microsoft 365 account to all students before class instruction begins. Providing access to applications like Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Exchange Online, Teams, and OneDrive will give students the tools needed to succeed in their academic careers at the university. Learn more about your Microsoft 365 account Next Gen Platform (NGP) and PyPE Replacement Project End Date: 12/31/2024 The Business and Administrative IT Leadership Council (BAITLC) recently commissioned a project to develop a Next Generation Platform (NGP) to serve the development community and replace the existing PyPE platform. Next Generation Network (NGN) Program End Date: 05/31/2022 The Next Generation Network Project will address data network issues identified by both internal and external reviews providing: Improved service for students, faculty, and staff by providing consistently good wireless and wired networks Increased security with a focus on protecting faculty research and university intellectual property by responding rapidly to threats Greater operational efficiency enabling College, School, and Unit IT staff to focus on local missions, while shifting the burden of compliance, accountability, and budgets to central ITS UTmail Storage Reduction End Date: January, 2023 Due to Google’s upcoming quota limits, the university will not support shared drives. If you have any data stored in UTmail Google Shared Drives, you must export and/or delete your files before Nov. 1, 2022. After Nov. 1, 2022, the university will be forced to delete all files in shared drives to comply with Google’s quota limits. Please take appropriate action to download, copy, export, and/or delete files before you lose access. For current university students, faculty, or staff looking for alternative cloud storage options, please visit What Alternative Services Can I Use? For more information on these changes, including how to manage your data, please visit What's Changing with UTmail? If you have any questions, please contact the Service Desk at 512-475-9400 or submit a help request online. WHIPS Retirement End Date: Fall 2023 The University White Pages Directory (WHIPS) is a public directory service that contains the public contact information of students, faculty, and staff. The IAM Committee endorsed a proposal from the Information Security Office (ISO) to add EID authentication to the directory web application (https://directory.utexas.edu) and remove LDAP and finger access. This change would limit the ability of bad actors to scrape data from WHIPS for use in various types of attacks. Upon review of this action, the IAM team determined that WHIPS customers and the public Directory website could be transitioned from WHIPS to the uTexas Enterprise Directory (TED), thus allowing the retirement of the LDAP and finger components of the WHIPS service. The directory web application (https://directory.utexas.edu) will continue to be available behind EID authenticaton. Wireless Access Point Upgrade (2700 Model) End Date: February 2023 Nearly 5,000 old WAPs (model 2700/3700) across over 130 buildings will be lifecycled to maintain support and increase capabilities. Past Projects Get Help Information and guidance on technology resources available to support current working and teaching conditions: Instructional Continuity FAQ & Resources Guidance for Flexible Work Tools More Coronavirus Resources for Employees Service Desk ITS Service Desk provides IT support services related to EID, DUO, Office 365, email, Qualtrics, Box, and other central IT services. Call us at 512-475-9400 | help@utexas.edu Submit a help request online In-Person Services located at the FAC first floor Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm ID Card Services The ID Center provides ID cards for students, faculty, staff, official visitors and university affiliates as required. The ID Center also upgrades UT EIDs for eligible individuals to allow full access to online services. Call us at 512-475-9400 | ID_Center@utlists.utexas.edu Submit a help request online In-Person Services located at the FAC first floor Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm IT@UT Contact Us Information Technology Services UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022