Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Paintings by Floriano Vecchi Events Past Event Paintings by Floriano Vecchi Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 12, 2008 - April 8, 2008 9:30 AM - 4:30 PM The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies at Columbia University will present an exhibition of paintings by Floriano Vecchi (1920–2005), who was born near Bologna and lived for many years in New York. The exhibition will be open to the public from 9:30 AM to 4:30 PM each weekday from March 12 through April 8. An opening reception from 5:30 to 7:30 PM on March 12, 2008, will feature a talk by the writer Paula Fox at 6:30 PM. In 1953 Vecchi, together with his partner Richard Miller, founded the Tiber Press, which became one of the most important sources in America of printed artwork. Among the Press’s first major projects was a portfolio of drawings by Tobias Schneebaum with text by Vance Bourjaily, The Girl in the Abstract Bed (published 1954). The Tiber Press went on to reproduce paintings and drawings by such seminal figures as Stuart Davis, Georgia O’Keeffe, Charles Sheeler, Ben Shahn, Alfred Leslie, Cecil Beaton, Grace Hartigan, Michael Goldberg, Joan Mitchell, Helen Frankenthaler, Jane Freilicher, and many others. In 1962, Andy Warhol approached Vecchi with a drawing on paper of a $1 bill, asking if Vecchi could help with printing the drawing. Vecchi suggested that Warhol redraw the image on Mylar, and Warhol made his first print, under Vecchi’s supervision, at Tiber Press, the first of many such compositions. The Tiber Press also produced Folder, a literary publication in the form of loose sheets featuring work by New York poets and artists. Working together with Daisy Aldan and William Weaver, Vecchi published works by Kenneth Koch, Frank O’Hara, John 2 Ashbery, James Schuyler, and many other prominent writers, along with Aldan’s first English translation of Mallarmé’s Un coup de des. Floriano Vecchi was best known for his work with the Tiber Press, but he was a serious painter who produced work for several decades. His paintings have been compared to those of another Italian artist, Giorgio Morandi. Vecchi was drawn to the still-life, depicting flowers, bottles, fish, drapery, vegetables, and also more contemporary objects such as plastic containers. He also executed a series of figurative works, most notably a “Last Supper” in which the same model posed for all thirteen figures, and a triptych in which the same model is shown in three views on a wooden cross. A 1994 exhibition of Vecchi’s paintings in New York was reviewed by Martin Parsons in Artspeak, who wrote that “Vecchi emerges as a highly original painter with a unique vision.” Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close