Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events A Fresh View: Primo Levi's COMPLETE WORKS Events Past Event A Fresh View: Primo Levi's COMPLETE WORKS Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 1, 2016 5:30 PM - 7:30 PM A dialogue between Ann Goldstein and Marco Belpoliti, editors of Levi in 2015-2016 Best known as an Italian Jewish survivor of the Auschwitz concentration camp who wrote lucid testimony about wartime, Primo Levi (1919–1987) also published essays, poetry, commentary, and fiction. His unforgettable work will be presented by editor Ann Goldstein and professor Marco Belpoliti. Marco Belpoliti, essayist and writer, teaches at the University of Bergamo, contributes to many newspapers and magazines, and co-edits the series “Riga” (Marcos y Marcos) and the online cultural magazine “Doppiozero." A leading scholar of Primo Levi's works, he curated the Italian edition of the complete works of Levi in 1997 for the publisher Einaudi, which is now releasing an expanded edition with unpublished materials. His book Primo Levi Di Fronte e Di Profilo (Primo Levi Front-View and Side-View; Guanda, 2015) is the summation of his two decades of research on the writer. INTERVIEW WITH M. BELPOLITI Ann Goldstein is an editor at The New Yorker and a recipient of a PEN Renato Poggioli Translation Award and a Guggenheim Fellowship. Her 2015 edition of The Complete Works of Primo Levi (Liveright/Norton, 2015) was selected as a Washington Post Notable Book; she edited the three volumes and contributed her own translations as well. She is the translator of all of Elena Ferrante’s novels and of many other notable works; and she was among the seven distinguished translators of the Zibaldone by Giacomo Leopardi. Co-sponsor: Italian Cultural Institute in New York. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close