Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Matthew Bogdanos: ISIS & Antiquities Trafficking Events Past Event Matthew Bogdanos: ISIS & Antiquities Trafficking Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 5, 2018 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM Matthew Bogdanos will speak about the Islamic State’s trafficking in looted antiquities and the global black market that emerged after the looting of the Iraq Museum in April 2003. He will also discuss the aims and efforts of the New York District Attorney’s newly formed Antiquities Trafficking Unit, which under his leadership has already taken several highly visible actions against prominent antiquities collectors, dealers, and cultural institutions. Matthew Bogdanos is a New York Assistant District Attorney and a colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps. He has served in Iraq and Afghanistan and is the co-author of Thieves of Baghdad (2005), his account of tracking down looted antiquities in the wake of the plundering of the Baghdad Museum (his royalties go to the Baghdad Museum). Bogdanos holds a JD and an MA in Classical Studies from Columbia University, and an MA in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College. He was awarded a Bronze Star for counterterrorist operations in Afghanistan and a National Humanities Medal from President George Bush in 2005 for his work recovering Iraqi antiquities. Co-sponsors: Columbia University's Department of History; Department of Classics; Classical Studies (CLST) Graduate Program; Center for the Ancient Mediterranean. Photo: Syrian regime soldier displays a looted funerary sculpture from Palmyra. (C) 2014 UNESCO. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close