Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Selected Works by Aryan Kaganof Events Past Event Selected Works by Aryan Kaganof Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: abrahamse and gabriels Slide 2: carmen sydow wardrobe mistress Slide 3: eoan ballet traviata Previous Next March 11, 2014 - March 12, 2014 11:00 AM - 8:30 PM On March 11 and 12, 2014, South African independent filmmaker Aryan Kaganof will present and discuss his selected films, most of which have never been seen in the United States. On Wednesday, March 12 at 4:30 pm he will join Richard Peña (Columbia), Hlonipha Mokoena (Columbia), Sean Jacobs (The New School) and Anna Grimshaw (Emory University) in a panel discussion about his work. The screenings will include • the U.S. premiere of An Inconsolable Memory, Kaganof's 2013 documentary on The Eoan Group Book Project, an initiative to collect the forgotten history of a set of "coloured" performers from Cape Town's District Six who performed Italian opera to mixed audiences during and after apartheid; • the world premiere of Night is Coming: A Threnody for the Victims of Marikana, an examination of past and current South African culture through the lens of the 2012 strikes in the Rustenburg area of Marikana, South Africa (unrest that resulted in the deaths of 48 people, most of whom were striking miners, in the single most lethal use of force by South African security forces against civilians since the Sharpeville Massacre of 1960); • the U.S. premiere of Guerilla Blues and Holy Ghosts, a compelling portrait of Gylan Kain, one of the founders of "The Last Poets," the Harlem spoken-word group established in 1968 which is said to be a precursor to hip-hop; • the U.S. premiere of The Uprising of Hangberg, Kaganof and Dylan Valley's dynamic documentary of the struggles of the marginalized communities of the Hout Bay suburb of Cape Town, which occurred when police tried to forcibly remove them from their homes; and • Nice to Meet You, Please Don't Rape Me, Kaganof's 1994 musical satire of the newly post-apartheid South Africa. Featured screenings begin at 5:30 pm on Tuesday, March 11. On Wednesday, March 12, a panel discussion on Kaganof's work will take place at 4:30 pm. Additional screenings of films by Aryan Kaganof will run from 12:00 pm on March 11. Films are intended for an adult audience. Admission is free. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close