Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Marcy Rosen, cello, with Momenta Quartet Events Past Event Marcy Rosen, cello, with Momenta Quartet Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 30, 2016 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Music of Luigi Boccherini (1743–1805) Duo for Two Cellos in C Major, G. 6 String Quartet in G minor, G. 194, Op. 28 No. 6 String Quintet in C Major, G. 310 Cello Concerto in G Major, G. 480 Marcy Rosen has established herself as one of the most important and respected artists of our day. She has performed in recital and with orchestras throughout Canada, England, France, Japan, Italy, Switzerland, and all fifty of the United States. She made her concerto debut with the Philadelphia Orchestra at the age of eighteen and has since appeared with such noted orchestras as the Dallas Symphony, the Phoenix Symphony, the Caramoor Festival Orchestra, the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra in Carnegie Hall, the Jupiter Symphony and Concordia Chamber Orchestra at Alice Tully Hall, and the Tokyo Symphony at the famed Orchard Hall in Tokyo. In recital she has appeared in New York at such acclaimed venues as Carnegie Hall, the 92nd Street "Y," and Merkin Concert Hall; in Washington D.C. she has appeared at the Kennedy Center, Dumbarton Oaks, the Phillips Collection, and the Corcoran Gallery, where for many years she hosted a series entitled "Marcy Rosen and Friends." In recent seasons she has given Master Classes and appeared on stage in Beijing and Shanghai, China, the Seoul Arts Center in Korea, and in Cartagena, Colombia. A consummate soloist, Ms. Rosen's superb musicianship is enhanced by her many chamber music activities. She has collaborated with the world's finest musicians including Leon Fleisher, Richard Goode, Andras Schiff, Peter Serkin, Mitsuko Uchida, Isaac Stern, Robert Mann, Sandor Vegh, Kim Kashkashian, Jessye Norman, Lucy Shelton, Charles Neidich and the Juilliard, Emerson, and Orion Quartets. She is a founding member of the ensemble La Fenice, a group comprised of an oboe, piano and string trio, as well as a founding member of the world renowned Mendelssohn String Quartet. With the Mendelssohn String Quartet she was Artist-in-Residence at the North Carolina School of the Arts and for nine years served as Blodgett-Artist-in Residence at Harvard University. The Quartet, which disbanded in January of 2010, toured annually throughout the United States, Canada, and Europe for 31 years. Momenta Quartet incorporates the strengths and passions of each of its individual members. Current members have been playing together since 2009, with Adda Kridler joining in 2012. Founding violist Stephanie Griffin combines a classical music career with multifaceted improvisational adventures in Indonesia and in New York City’s vibrant avant-jazz scene. Violinist Emilie-Anne Gendron has won awards in major competitions such as the Stulberg String Competition and the Sion-Valais International Violin Competition. She tours regularly with Musicians from Marlboro and the Sejong Soloists and joined Momenta in 2009. Also with Momenta since 2009, cellist Michael Haas spent his formative years studying with renowned string quartet cellists David Soyer and Joel Krosnick. He is a graduate of the prestigious Curtis Institute of Music and performs regularly with the Orchestra of St. Luke’s and the Argento Chamber Ensemble. Adda Kridler studied neuroscience at Harvard and violin at the New England Conservatory. She has held positions in major orchestras, performs regularly with many of New York’s orchestras and contemporary music ensembles, and has been a member of Momenta since 2012. The combined musical tastes of Momenta’s four members have resulted in a unique personal repertoire spanning from Palestrina to Cage, from the new complexity of Arthur Kampela to theatrical works by Mauricio Kagel and Tan Dun and world premieres by jazz legend Yusef Lateef. As Steve Smith wrote in The New York Times, “Word of the Momenta Quartet’s diligence, curiosity and excellence is definitely out.” Momenta has appeared at such prestigious venues as the Library of Congress, National Gallery of Art, the Smithsonian’s Freer Gallery, Rubin Museum, Miller Theatre at Columbia University, and the Princeton Institute for Advanced Study and looks forward to high-profile concerts at Chamber Music Cincinnati, Washington University, and at the internationally renowned Cervantino Festival in Mexico. Momenta gave its Mexican debut at the National University (UNAM) last June and has performed in the United Kingdom, Indonesia and Singapore. Momenta has recorded for Centaur Records, Furious Artisans, PARMA, New World Records, and Albany Records and has been broadcast on WQXR, Q2 Music, Austria’s Oe1, and Vermont Public Radio. The quartet’s debut album, Similar Motion, is available on Albany Records. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close