Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Three Sopranos: Sarah Wolfson Events Past Event Three Sopranos: Sarah Wolfson Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo May 6, 2009 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM Three takes on Berio’s 1966 Sequenza III, and programs of other Italian contemporary music The Spring 2009 Concert Series ends with soprano Sarah Wolfson. In 2007 Wolfson was awarded the 1st Place Prize (Victor and Sono Elmaleh Award) in The Concert Artists Guild Competition. An avid performer of new music, she recently made her Zankel Hall debut performing the world premiere of Jonathan Dawe's Overture and Ballet Music from Armide with American Composers Orchestra. She has also created the role of Celia in the world premiere of John Musto's Volpone at Wolf Trap Opera Company. Off-Broadway, Ms. Wolfson created the role of Jane/Aeola in The New Group's world premiere production of Wallace and Allen Shawn's play/opera, The Music Teacher. She also recorded the opera for Bridge Records. This summer Ms. Wolfson opens the Rockport Chamber Music Festival performing works that include Mussorgsky and Weill. Recent engagements for Ms. Wolfson include soloist in the Bach B Minor Mass with American Symphony Orchestra. As the 2005 winner of The Juilliard Vocal Arts Alice Tully Hall Debut she made her Lincoln Center recital debut. At Juilliard, Ms. Wolfson received the William Schuman Prize for Outstanding Achievement and Leadership in Music, the highest award given to a graduate student. While at Juilliard, Ms. Wolfson performed the roles of Susanna in Mozart's Le Nozze di Figaro, Sidonie/Lucinde in Gluck's Armide, Jenny Reefer in Thompson's The Mother of Us All, and Rose in Weill's Street Scene. She was also chosen to be featured on the PBS American Masters documentary The Juilliard Experience. Ms. Wolfson has performed at the Miami Museum of Contemporary Art, was chosen twice to sing on Juilliard Vocal Arts Honors Recitals in Alice Tully Hall, and has appeared in a number of Juilliard Liederabends and Song Book recitals. She was also chosen to be a part of the Juilliard Vocal Arts Chamber Music series in Alice Tully Hall. Ms. Wolfson was the 2004-2005 winner of the Vocal Arts Society Recital Competition. She was named the winner of the 2005 Juilliard Vocal Arts Alice Tully Recital Debut. As a recipient of a Lucrezia Bori Grant for study abroad from Juilliard, Ms. Wolfson was able to study in Salzburg, Austria, where she performed recitals at The Sacellum and Schloss Leopoldskron. She also participated in the Steans Institute for Young Artists at The Ravinia Festival and at the Bowdoin Summer Music Festival where she continued her focus on recital repertoire. Ms. Wolfson is currently on the faculty of Columbia University where she teaches vocal performance. She is also a member of Sing for Hope, a non-profit organization that facilitates the connection between artists and charities providing a network of support. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close