Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events “Being Ariodante” by Jonathan Dawe— rescheduled Events Past Event “Being Ariodante” by Jonathan Dawe— rescheduled Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 29, 2020 7:30 PM - 9:00 PM Event now rescheduled for May 13 and May 14, 2022. Click on these dates for new event information. Ensemble Échappé's premiere performances of a fully-staged new opera by Juilliard composer Jonathan Dawe, creator of three previous operas premiered at the Italian Academy: Cracked Orlando, featuring countertenor Anthony Roth Costanzo (2010), Cosí faran tutti (or They'll All Do It; 2012), and Nero and the Fall of Lehman Brothers (2016). Being Ariodante (2020) is for countertenor, soprano, mezzo, tenor, instrumental ensemble, and actor/dancer. This tragic tale of young adults is set in Glasgow in the present day. The music and text (in both English and Italian) are by Jonathan Dawe. Performances at 7:30 pm on April 29 & 30. Ariodante - Samuel Siegel Ginevra - Cree Carrico Polinesso - Alexander Scheuermann Dalinda - Sydney Anderson Lurcanio - John McGinty The Thug - Thomas Lyons Choreography: Laura Dearman Lighting Design: David J. Palmer Associate Producer: Rick Whitaker Director: Mari Moriarty The highly innovative and conjured world of composer Jonathan Dawe joins Baroque imagery with a modernist mix, cast with dynamic dramatic flair. Cited for his “quirky, fascinating modernist variations on earlier styles” (Time Out) his music involves the recasting of energies and sounds of the past into decisively new expressions, through compositional workings based upon fractal geometry. Recent pieces and productions have been described as “music of such vitality and drama” (New York Times), “a brake-squealing collision of influence” (Boston Globe), and “bound to be provocative” (Time Out). Described as “one of our most talented and distinctive – yet little-known – contemporary composers,” (Seen and Heard International), Dawe is the youngest composer to have been commissioned by The Boston Symphony Orchestra. The Flowering Arts, a bold, fractured transformation of Marc-Antoine Charpentier’s Les arts florissants, was hailed in 2005 as a “powerful premiere” (Boston Globe). Recent productions include Nero and the Fall of Lehman Brothers with BOP Ballet | Opera | Pantomime (Montreal), as well as the premiere with Ensemble Échappé at Columbia's Italian Academy in 2016. Cracked Orlando was presented first at the Italian Academy in 2010 and subsequently in the Beyond the Machine series at Juilliard. Additional productions include Così faran tutti (They’ll All Do It) at the Italian Academy in 2012. Commissions include those from Boston Symphony Orchestra, American Composers Orchestra, Columbia's Italian Academy, Wharton Center for Performing Arts, Ensemble Échappé, Da Capo Chamber Players, Loadbang, Miro Quartet, Brentano String Quartet, Manhattan Sinfonietta, Cygnus Ensemble, New York New Music Ensemble, New Juilliard Ensemble, Institute for Advanced Study (Princeton). Awards include two recording grants from the Copland Fund for New Music, a Koussevitzky Music Foundation Commission (Library of Congress), a NYSCA commission grant, a Fromm Foundation Grant (Harvard University), a Presser Award (Presser Foundation), the Charles Ives Scholarship (American Academy of Arts and Letters), the Bearns Prize (Columbia University), two ASCAP prizes, two BMI awards, the David Cinnamon Prize, and the Herbert Ellwel Prize (Oberlin Conservatory). Dawe was born in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1965 and studied at the Oberlin Conservatory (BM 1987) with Richard Hoffmann and at the Juilliard School (MM 1993, DMA 1995) with Milton Babbitt. Upon graduation he joined the graduate faculty of the Juilliard School where he teaches today. Based in New York City, Ensemble Échappé [EÉ] is a versatile group of soloists dedicated to presenting an eclectic spectrum of 20th and 21st century music. Undefined by genre or style, EÉ is a sinfonietta of 20 core members distinguished not only as exceptional instrumentalists, but as visionaries, sculpting the future of new music. The musicians of EÉ are bound together by the desire to explore diverse sonic palettes. Co-Directors Benjamin Grow and Nina C. Young believe in promoting a dialogue between performers and living composers, while also showcasing the masterworks of the American and European canons. EÉ has premiered and performed works by a wide array of composers including Andy Akiho, the Brothers Balliett, Lisa Bielawa, Jonathan Dawe, Jason Eckardt, Beat Furrer, Selim Goncu, Michael Hersch, Takuma Itoh, Aaron Holloway-Nahum, Tonia Ko, Fred Lerdahl, Andrew Norman, Kevin Puts, Kaija Saariaho, Sean Shepherd, Tina Tallon, Zeynep Toraman, and Ricardo Zohn-Muldoon. Échappé is cultivating a dedication to collaborations with vocal artists pursuing contemporary and experimental music. Ensemble Échappé Artistic Directors Benjamin Grow Nina C. Young Conductor Benjamin Grow Musicians Isabel Lepanto Gleicher, flute Lauren Williams, oboe Vasko Dukovski, clarinet Brad Balliett, bassoon Eric Reed, horn Sam Jones, trumpet Felix Del Tredici, trombone Samuel Budish, percussion Mike Truesdell, percussion Emily Levin, harp Ashley Jackson, harp Conor Hanick, piano Han Chen, piano Emilie-Anne Gendron, violin Karen Kim, violin Michelle Ross, violin Jessica Meyer, viola Jay Campbell, cello Caleb van der Swaagh, cello Doug Balliett, bass Advisory Board Fred Lerdahl Jeffrey Milarsky Steven Stucky (in memory) Director of Development Louis Chiappetta Operations Manager Mike Truesdell Photo by Ronald Andrew Schvarztman Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close