Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Maristella de Panizza Lorch: Beyond Gibraltar Events Past Event Maristella de Panizza Lorch: Beyond Gibraltar Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 22, 2014 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies at Columbia University will host a public event featuring the Academy’s Founding Director Maristella de Panizza Lorch, who will present her new book Beyond Gibraltar. The second installation of a planned trilogy (the first, Mamma in Her Village, was published in 2005), Beyond Gibraltar interweaves memory and history as it traces the life of its protagonist through a fascinating period of modern history. Born in the Alps in the first part of the 20th century, struggling and fighting her way for survival in war-torn Rome, boarding a military ship in 1947 to travel to her new home in the U.S., and building her own version of the American Dream in New York—these are the basic elements of her story. It is a tale of resilience, courage, and transformation by one of America’s beloved scholars, teachers, and founders. The presentation will include introductory remarks by Rick Whitaker and Lavinia Lorch. Maristella de Panizza Lorch was educated first in a classical school in the Alto Adige-Sudtirol between the two world wars. She earned a doctorate in classical philology in 1942 at the University of Rome with the Accademico d’Italia Professor Vincenzo Ussani, Sr. After fifty years of teaching, she is now Professor Emerita of Italian and Medieval and Renaissance Studies at Barnard and Columbia. Among her books: the critical edition of Lorenzo Valla’s De Voluptate (1431-44), its English translation On Pleasure, the edition of Ziliolo Zilioli’s Michaelida (1431), A Defense of Life (a study of Renaissance Epicureanism) and, with the philosopher Ernesto Grassi, Folly and Insanity in Renaissance Literature, an interpretation of humanistic literature and chivalric poetry. Albert Rabil’s four-volume collection of essays on Renaissance Humanism was dedicated to her in recognition of her promotion of Medieval and Renaissance Studies in America. Maristella Lorch is known at Columbia for her courses (given throughout fifty years in English) on Dante, Petrarca, Renaissance Humanism, Renaissance Theatre, Machiavelli and Ariosto; in Europe, particularly Italy and France, as an active promoter of international exchange. She founded and directed the Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, the Center for Italian Studies, the Center for International Scholarly Exchange, and the Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America (1991). She founded La Scuola New York Guglielmo Marconi, is a member of the Advisory Board of the Lycee Francais de New York, Vice-President of EPIC (the fellowship of Emeriti Professors in Columbia), and was until recently a teaching faculty member in the M.A. in Liberal Arts Program at Columbia’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Since 1996, as Founding Director Emerita of the Academy for Advanced Studies, she has been writing a fictionalized memoir or recit d’initiation,based on her Euro-American identity, while at the same time offering courses for adults on Dante, Homer, Virgil, and Ovid. She is currently working on the third volume, The Other Shore. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close