Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Monteverdi Solos and Duets Events Past Event Monteverdi Solos and Duets Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo May 4, 2012 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM TENET The Spring 2012 concert series will continue on Friday, May 4, 2012 at 7 PM when the acclaimed NYC-based ensemble TENET will present a program of works by Claudio Monteverdi (1567-1643) for solo and duo soprano with instrumental accompaniment. Praised as “sheer joy for the listener” by James Oestreich in the New York Times, TENET has won acclaim for its innovative programming, virtuoso singing and command of repertoire that spans the Middle Ages to the present day. Led by Artistic Director Jolle Greenleaf, TENET features distinguished soloists who shine in one-voice- to-a-part singing as well as joining voices in small ensembles. TENET is ensemble-in- residence at the historic St. Ignatius of Antioch Episcopal Church on New York City’s Upper West Side. Hailed as a “golden soprano” and called “a major force in the New York early music-scene” by the New York Times, Jolle Greenleaf is one of the leading voices in the field. She is a much sought-after soloist in music by Bach, Handel, Haydn, Purcell, Mozart and, most notably, Claudio Monteverdi. Her performances have earned raves from all over the country, but most notable from the New York Times, who called her “an exciting soprano soloist... beautifully accurate and stylish...” Ms. Greenleaf creates programs, directs and sings in performances of repertoire spanning the middle ages to the present day. Ms. Greenleaf's programming for TENET has been lauded by the New York Times as “smart, varied and not entirely early.” The dynamic duo of Jolle Greenleaf and Molly Quinn has teamed up to offer an intimate performance of solos and duets by the Italian master, Claudio Monteverdi (1567-1643) and his contemporaries. Repertoire is drawn from his incredible wealth of vocal music featured in his many volumes of dramatic and light music. Central to the program are two spectacular baroque violinists and an inventive continuo team. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close