Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Premio New York: Artists Meris Angioletti and Luca Trevisani Events Past Event Premio New York: Artists Meris Angioletti and Luca Trevisani Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 23, 2010 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM Scholarship program for emerging Italian artists; co-sponsored by the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Italian Cultural Institute of New York. (At the Italian Cultural Institute.) Meris Angioletti graduated in Fine Arts from the Academy of Brera in Milan and has participated in numerous workshops and exhibitions including Idea Bank/ the Energy Clothes at the FAR in Como, and Modelmania with Olafur Elisson in Venice. Her recent solo shows in 2009 include I describe the way and meanwhile I am proceeding along it, Fondazione Galleria Civica di Trento (upcoming); Ginnastica Oculare, GAMeC, Bergamo; Il Paradigma Indiziario, Care of, Milan; Haunted, Galleria Tiziana di Caro, Salerno (2008). Her selected group shows include The Filmic Conventions, FormContent, London; Just in the Dark, Mercati di Traiano, Rome; T2-Le 50 Lune di Saturno, Turin; VideoReport Italia 2006-2007, GC.AC Monfalcone; Echo, Transpalette, Bourges; Heavier then air, ITCA_Re-reading the future, Prague Triennial, Prague; Pavillon#7, Palais de Tokyo (mezzanine), Paris; Artetica-descrivere il resto, Porto Cesareo (LE); Art4Lux, Casino Luxembourg, Luxembourg; Guest Room, Straatgalerij-Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, Rotterdam; M.M.M. Milano-Melbourne-Milano, Gertrude Contemporary Art Spaces, Melbourne. In 2005, she was artist-in-residence at the Centre de Récollets – Dena Foundation in Paris. In 2006, she worked in Maastricht within the program Map XXL- Pèpinières Européennes pour jeunes artistes, where she realized, in collaboration with a psychiatric hospital, Travel Tales, a radio-play reconstructing the memories of a patient affected by Dromomania. She was artist-in-residence at Le Pavillon-Laboratoire de création du Palais de Tokyo, Paris, for 2007/2008 and was short-listed for the prize The Spirit in any condition does not burn, Premio Furla 2009. Luca Trevisani has exhibited throughout Italy, Europe, and New York. Recent solo shows include NIMKat Montevideo in Amsterdam; Identitiy is a Cloud at Museo Carlo Zauli, Faenza; The Truth is that Truth Changes, Pinksummer, Genova; and a show at MARS, Milan. He has also shown at Mehdi Chouakri and Kunstler Hous, Berlin; Klaua von Nichtssagend Gallery, NY; Ileana Tounta Contemporary Art Center, Athens; New Galerie de France, Paris; Ca’ Pesaro, Venice; and Castello Sforzesco, Milano. He has participated in screenings and festivals such as Cumulonembo + Volksbuhne, Lambretto, Milan, with Riccardo Previdi and Bahnhof; Tettonica a placche, Neon fdv, Milano with Stefano Mandracchia, Simone Tosca and Massimo Carozzi. He has had residencies at NIMK/Montevideo in Amsterdam (2009) and Kunstlerhus Bethanien, Berlin. In 2007 he won the Premio Furla prize for Art. In 2006 he was selected for the Premio Artegiovane Milano e Torino. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close