Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Music of Salvatore Sciarrino Events Past Event Music of Salvatore Sciarrino Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 5, 2017 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM A concert by ensemble mise-en to celebrate the composer’s 70th birthday Esplorazione del bianco III (1986) Omaggio a Burri (1995) Esplorazione del bianco I (1986) Dialoghi sull'ultima corda (2014) Introduzione all'oscuro per 12 strumenti (1981) “Music is emotional; it touches you intimately. Not everyone enjoys intimate contact. We live in a time of great diffidence, frigidity, and lack of joie de vivre, so music can become embarrassing. It embarrasses because it touches you, and being touched is erotic. It is music’s most beautiful trait.” -- Salvatore Sciarrino Salvatore Sciarrino was born in Palermo April 4, 1947. He began composing at age twelve, self-taught and gave his first public concert in 1962. His mature style began to reveal itself in 1966. What characterizes his music, he has said, is that it leads to a different way of listening, a global emotional realization of reality as well as of one’s self. After his classical studies and a few years of university in his home city, the Sicilian composer moved to Rome in 1969 and in 1977 to Milan. Since 1983, he has lived in Città di Castello, in Umbria. He has composed for the Teatro alla Scala, RAI, Teatro del Maggio Musicale Fiorentino, Biennale di Venezia, Teatro La Fenice di Venezia, Teatro Carlo Felice di Genova, Fondazione Arena di Verona, Stuttgart Opera Theatre, Brussels La Monnaie, Frankfurt Opera Theatre, Amsterdam Concertgebouw, London Symphony Orchestra, and Tokyo Suntory Hall along with many festivals. Sciarrino’s discography includes more than a hundred CDs. Apart from writing most of his opera’s librettos, Sciarrino has written articles, essays and texts, including his 1998 interdisciplinary book about musical form. He has won many awards, among them the Prince Pierre de Monaco (2003), the Feltrinelli International Award (2003), and the Salzburg Music Prize (2006). ensemble mise-en is a New York-based contemporary music collective led by composer Moon Young Ha. The ensemble promotes large-scale, dynamic performances of contemporary music featuring the works of established and budding composers. Since its inception in 2011, ensemble mise-en has collaborated with many esteemed partners, including Washington Square Contemporary Music Society, International Alliance for Women in Music, Austrian Cultural Forum New York, Open Meadows Foundation, New York University, New York Foundation for the Arts, I-Park, Goethe-Institute Boston, Villa Gillet, and others. To date, the ensemble has presented a total of 350 pieces, including 150 works written for the group, and 100 US/NY premieres. The ensemble has performed at (le) poisson rouge, Bohemian National Hall, the Italian Academy, the DiMenna Center, Tenri Cultural Institute and The Cell. The ensemble has also focused on reexamining problematic and influential works of the twentieth century, including two concert collaborations with the Italian Academy, a Franco Donatoni Portrait, and a Luciano Berio program focused on works the composer wrote during his time in New York. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close