Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Current work by visual artists Calori & Maillard, Francesca Grilli (at the Italian Cultural Institute) Events Past Event Current work by visual artists Calori & Maillard, Francesca Grilli (at the Italian Cultural Institute) Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Featured art Slide 2: Featured art Previous Next April 26, 2016 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM Presentation by winners of the 2016 Premio New York for emerging Italian artists Event is at the Italian Cultural Institute, 686 Park Avenue, near 68th Street. The Premio New York brings promising younger Italian artists to New York for a residency at the International Studio and Curatorial Program (ISCP) in Brooklyn, with the support of the Italian Academy, the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Italian Cultural Institute in New York. RSVP TO THE ITALIAN CULTURAL INSTITUTE The winners of the 2016 edition, Calori and Maillard and Francesca Grilli, will present and discuss their current work. Calori & Maillard work with sculpture and performance. They will present their work L’Oiseau de Feu, a ballet for tower cranes (2014–15) and their ongoing project Fashion Show, a series of wearable sculptures inspired by high-rise buildings in Frankfurt, New York, and Shanghai. Francesca Grilli’s installations and performances focus on the intensity of intimate stories. These works are supported by sound elements, which Grilli considers the most effective means of communicating directly with the individual and collective unconscious. Her most recent project explores the relationship between two islands: Ellis Island and Lampedusa. She will present the starting point of this project during her presentation. Artists Biographies: Calori & Maillard (Letizia Calori and Violette Maillard) have worked as a duo since 2009. Their collaboration combines a background in architecture (Calori) and film studies (Maillard). In 2011 they obtained an MA in Visual Arts at IUAV, Venice. In 2012 they moved to Frankfurt where they deepened their research at the Staedelschule Staatliche Hochschule für Bildende Künste. Francesca Grilli was born in Bologna in 1978. Her work examines the realm of sound processing, in all its forms, registers, and multiple implications, expressive and perceptive. Using the language of performance, she moves between private and personal elements and the spectators' space of action, drawing viewers into a boundless space of physical and emotional involvement, often an ambiguous and unsettling territory. Image credits: Left image: Oro by Francesca Grilli, installation 2011, courtesy Umberto di Marino, Naples Right image: Fashion Show prototypes by Calori & Maillard, Botin Fondation, Santander, Spain, courtesy of the artists Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close