Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Miranda Cuckson, violin Events Past Event Miranda Cuckson, violin Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 4, 2009 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM The Fall 2009 concert series at Columbia University’s Italian Academy for Advanced Studies will present three recitals by leading proponents of contemporary music. November 4, Miranda Cuckson, violin and viola With Blair McMillen, piano Francesco Maria Veracini: Sonata No. 11 in E Major Franco Donatoni: Ciglio III Stefano Gervasoni: Tornasole Busoni: Sonata No. 1, Op. 29 Sought after as a soloist and chamber musician in a wide range of repertoire, violinist/violist Miranda Cuckson has appeared internationally as soloist with many orchestras, including her 2008 debut with the Jerusalem Symphony conducted by Leon Botstein. Her CD recording with the Czech National Symphony of concertos by Korngold and Ponce was released by Centaur Records to much praise. She subsequently made three recital CDs of twentieth-century American music for Centaur: lauded disks of music by Ralph Shapey, Donald Martino, and Ross Lee Finney, for which she was awarded grants from the Copland and Ditson Funds. Her upcoming recording projects include another Copland-funded CD of Shapey's violin music, and the solo violin works of Michael Hersch for Vanguard Classics. Ms. Cuckson made her recital debut at Carnegie's Weill Hall as winner of the Presser Music Award. She has performed at such venues as the Berlin Philharmonie, the Library of Congress, Zankel Hall, Miller Theatre, 92nd Street Y, Phillips Collection, Guggenheim Museum, Bargemusic, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and the Marlboro, Bridgehampton, Bodensee, Salon des Arts Sofia, and Lincoln Center festivals. A passionate champion of new music, she is involved in groups including the Argento Chamber Ensemble, counter(induction, ACME, and Sequitur, and she has worked with composers such as Henri Dutilleux, Elliott Carter, John Adams, Salvatore Sciarrino, Georg Friedrich Haas, and Mario Davidovsky. Her upcoming events include the world premiere of a work for violin and ensemble by Jeffrey Mumford, and a Composers Portrait concert at Miller Theatre of Shapey's music, for which she will be artistic director. Following her recent performance of Elliott Carter’s Duo for violin and piano at the Library of Congress in Washington, DC, the McKim Fund commissioned composer Harold Meltzer to write her a sonata, to be premiered at the Library for the 50th anniversary of Fritz Kreisler's death. Ms. Cuckson studied at The Juilliard School, where her teachers included Robert Mann, Dorothy DeLay, and Felix Galimir, and she recently received her doctorate. She teaches at Mannes The New School for Music. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close