Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Magdalena Baczewska, Piano Events Past Event Magdalena Baczewska, Piano Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 16, 2016 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Baldassare Galuppi: Sonata No. 7 in D major Domenico Scarlatti: Sonatas Nino Rota: Suite del Casanova di Federico Fellini Arcangelo Corelli: Pastorale (Angelus) from the Renaissance Book Karol Szymanowski: Preludes Fryderyk Chopin: Mazurkas and Polonaise fantasie Born in Poland, Magdalena Baczewska has enjoyed a multifaceted career as a pianist, harpsichordist, educator, recording artist, producer, and an administrator. Her performances have been hailed as “eloquent and technically flawless” (The Washington Post), and praised for ‘high musicianship and refined musical taste” (Polish Daily News), and the ability to “create a mysterious ritual on stage” (Aura Cultural Magazine). She has performed with violinist Joshua Bell, as a soloist with the San Francisco Symphony, and the China National Symphony, to name a few. She has toured Europe performing Bach's Goldberg Variations on the piano and the harpsichord. Baczewska recorded the Variations together with R. Strauss’ Sonata op. 5, as a part of her critically acclaimed album, "A Tribute to Glenn Gould." As artistic director of BlueSleep Music, Baczewska produced music for MetroNaps EnergyPod®, popularized by Google. In collaboration with BlueSleep®, a medical team specialized in research and treatment of sleep disorders, Baczewska recorded best-selling albums Music for Dreams (over 20,000 copies sold). Performances have taken her to Carnegie Hall (NYC), Davies Symphony Hall (San Francisco), National Center for Performing Arts (Beijing), Salle Cortot (Paris), Moores Opera House (Houston, TX), Merkin Hall (NYC), Steinway Hall (NYC), among others. As an avid educator, Baczewska has given piano master classes in the Central Conservatory (Beijing, China), Grassland International Music Festival (Hohhot, Inner Mongolia); International Keyboard Institute and Festival (NYC); New York Piano Festival (NYC). She is professor at Accademia Europea Villa Bossi in Varese, Italy. Baczewska is a laureate of international piano competitions (Chopin Competition at the Kosciuszko Foundation, Dorothy McKenzie Recognition Award, Prix du piano Ecoles d'Art Américaines Fontainebleau, Grand prix European American Music Alliance Paris, as well as the Outstanding Achievement Award from the Polish Minister of Culture. Baczewska holds degrees from Mannes College The New School for Music (BM, MM), and Manhattan School of Music (DMA). She is currently Director of the Music Performance Program and Lecturer in Music at Columbia University. Co-sponsored by the Columbia Music Department. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close