Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events The Grand Tour Orchestra; Charles Brink, Artistic Director Events Past Event The Grand Tour Orchestra; Charles Brink, Artistic Director Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 7, 2010 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM Jommelli's "Lamentations" The Spring 2010 concert series at Columbia Universitys Italian Academy for Advanced Studies will present the third season at the Academy by the Grand Tour Orchestra, which was founded by Charles Brink at the Italian Academy in 2006. The Orchestra is dedicated to music of the Enlightenment (ca. 1750-1800). With the use of instruments and performance practices befitting the era, the Orchestra presents the full spectrum of late-18th century music. Enthusiastic reviewers (from The New York Times, The New Yorker, Time Out New York, and ArtForum) keep praising the Italian Academys concerts for their energetic young players and astute, textually varied readings done with dedication and ample preparation. The program will be as follows: April 7 Niccolo Jommelli - Lamentations for Holy Wednesday (Rome,1750) for two sopranos and orchestra Stephanie Houtzeel, mezzo-soprano Matthew Shaw, alto Music Director Charles Brink began his flute studies with Jacob Berg in his native St. Louis. He received his Master's Degree at the New England Conservatory in Boston, where he studied with Fenwick Smith. In 1993 Mr. Brink was a Fellow at the Tanglewood Festival. In 1995 he was awarded a Fulbright Grant to study with Wilbert Hazelzet and Rien de Reede at the Royal Conservatory of Music in The Hague, Netherlands, where he earned certificates in 1997. Since devoting himself solely to historical flutes in 1998, he has toured and recorded with his own Bouts Ensemble, the Hannoverische Hofkapelle, the Capella Leopoldina, and the Amsterdam Baroque Orchestra. Since 2001 Mr. Brink has been a member of the Four Nations Ensemble (New York City) with whom he has performed at many venues in the United States, among which are the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Great Performers series at Lincoln Center and the Boston Early Music Festival. Mr. Brink has also served as principal flute in the Churschsische Philharmonie (Saxony, Germany) which specialized in music of the classical and romantic periods. In the summer of 2003 Charles Brink was co-conductor of Ariodante by G. F. Hndel at the Opera da Camera Linz Festival in Austria. His recordings can be heard on West German Radio, Middle German Radio, Dutch Radio and Television, Austrian Radio and the EMI, Raumklang (Germany) and Fuga Libera (Belgium) labels. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close