Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Jews in Italy, and Nazi and Fascist Persecution: Themes for Future Research Events Past Event Jews in Italy, and Nazi and Fascist Persecution: Themes for Future Research Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 23, 2018 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM A Lecture by Michele Sarfatti, Organized by the Centro Primo Levi and the Columbia Seminar in Modern Italian Studies. Introduced by David Kertzer Renowned for his groundbreaking research on Italian Jewry, Michele Sarfatti delivers this lecture to mark the upcoming publication of a special issue of the Journal of Modern Italian Studies focusing on the 80th anniversary of the implementation of the Racial Laws in Italy. The volume, edited and introduced by Annalisa Capristo and Ernest Ialongo, honors Michele Sarfatti for his contributions to the study of Italian Fascist antisemitism, and highlights the new work done by scholars influenced by Sarfatti’s work. Sarfatti’s lecture will examine some aspects of the history of Jews in Italy during the Fascist period and of the history of Nazi and Fascist persecution that have not yet been sufficiently investigated by Italian and international historiography. It therefore functions as a platform for further research. These themes include, among other things, the demography and social status of Italian Jewry, the comparison of European anti-Jewish legislations in the 1930s, and the consequences of the knowledge of the extermination among high-ranking Italian authorities in the early months of 1943. Michele Sarfatti is the author of seminal works on the Jews and the anti-Semitic persecution in Modern Italy. His groundbreaking study, The Jews in Mussolini’s Italy: from Equality to Persecution, Madison 2006, drastically changed the way in which historians consider Mussolini’s Racial Laws and the persecution of the Jews in Italy. Dr. Sarfatti has been Coordinator of the Activities (1982-2002) and Director (2002-2016) of the Fondazione Centro di Documentazione Ebraica Contemporanea (CDEC), in Milan. He is one of the founding editors of the e-journal Quest. Issues in Contemporary Jewish History. He has been member of “Commissione Governativa di indagine sui beni degli ebrei in Italia nel periodo delle persecuzioni 1938–1945” (“Commissione Anselmi”), 1998-2001; and of “Commissione Governativa per il recupero del patrimonio bibliografico della comunità ebraica di Roma, razziato nel 1943”, 2003–2008. He is a member of the Scientific Committees of Fondazione Museo nazionale dell’Ebraismo italiano e della Shoah, Ferrara, and of Fondazione Museo della Shoah, Roma. See also http://www.michelesarfatti.it/. David I. Kertzer has been the Dupee University Professor of Social Science since arriving at Brown University in 1992. He is also Professor of Anthropology and Italian Studies. Among his books are Comrades and Christians: Religion and Political Struggle in Communist Italy (Cambridge University Press, 1980); Ritual, Politics, and Power (Yale University Press, 1988); Sacrificed for Honor: Italian Infant Abandonment and the Politics of Reproductive Control (Beacon Press, 1993); Politics and Symbols: The Italian Communist Party and the Fall of Communism (Yale University Press, 1996); The Kidnapping of Edgardo Mortara (Knopf, 1997) (finalist for the National Book Award for Nonfiction, published in 12 languages); The Popes Against the Jews: The Vatican’s Role in the Rise of Modern Anti-Semitism (Knopf, 2001) (published in 9 languages); Prisoner of the Vatican (Houghton Mifflin, 2004); Amalia’s Tale (Houghton Mifflin, 2008); and The Pope and Mussolini: The Secret History of Pius XI and the Rise of Fascism in Europe (Random House, 2014) (published in 11 languages). In 2015, Kertzer was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in Biography for The Pope and Mussolini. In 2005, Kertzer was elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He is past president of the Social Science History Association and of the Society for the Anthropology of Europe, and served as provost of Brown University from 2006 to 2011. Free and open to the public; registration is required: [email protected] Co-sponsors: Centro Primo Levi, and the Columbia University Seminar in Modern Italian Studies Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close