Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Emanuele Arciuli, Five Versions of Darkness Events Past Event Emanuele Arciuli, Five Versions of Darkness Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 7, 2015 - October 7, 2017 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM A recital of works on piano by Busoni, Crumb, Fauré, Liszt, and Schumann Program: Schumann: "Gesänge der Fruhe, Op.133" Crumb: "Eine kleine Mitternachtmusik" (2001) Fauré: "Nocturne No. 4" Busoni: "All’Italia, Erscheinung (Notturno) e Berceuse Elegiaque da Sette Elegie" Liszt: "Après une lecture du Dante" Emanuele Arciuli's repertoire ranges from Bach to contemporary music, with a strong affinity for composers from the United States. Many new works have been written for him, including concertos by Michael Nyman and Louis W. Ballard. Round Midnight Variations, a group of 16 compositions that were written for Arciuli by composers such as Crumb, Babbitt, Kernis, Rzewski, Torke, Daugherty, Bolcom and Harbison, were released by Stradivarius on the CD ‘Round Midnight - Hommage to Thelonious Monk' in 2011, and have been celebrated by the international press. Arciuli's numerous recordings include the complete piano works of Berg and Webern, and the world premiere of Bruno Maderna's Concerto for Piano and Orchestra. His CD dedicated to George Crumb (Bridge) was nominated for a Grammy Award, and his CD with works by Adams and Rzewski (Stradivarius) received the Italian critics' award for Best Record in 2006. Arciuli regularly performs at major concert halls and festivals, such as the Berliner Festwochen, Wien Modern, La Scala Milano, Biennale di Venezia, Miami Piano Festival, Miller Theater New York, Maggio Musicale Fiorentino, Santa Fe Chamber Music Festival, Brescia and Bergamo International Piano Festival. He has collaborated with internationally renowned orchestras such as Saint Petersburg Philharmonic, Orquestra Sinfônica Brasileira RAI National Symphony, Rotterdam Philharmonic, Brussels Philharmonic, Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra and many others. Conductors with whom he has worked include Yoel Levi, James MacMillan, Kazushi Ono, Zoltan Pesko, Arturo Tamayo, Wayne Marshall, Andrey Boreyco and Mario Venzago. His book on American piano music, Musica per pianoforte negli Stati Uniti, was recently published in Italy. In 2011, Arciuli was awarded the Premio Franco Abbiati. He is a professor at the Conservatory in Bari and a frequent guest professor at the Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music and other American universities. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close