Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events A World on the Move: Immigration and Emigration in Europe and the Americas Events Past Event A World on the Move: Immigration and Emigration in Europe and the Americas Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 23, 2009 - April 25, 2009 8:00 AM Organized by Kenneth T. Jackson, Maurizio Vaudagna Former French Minister of Justice and of Cultural Affairs Jacques Toubon will be the keynote speaker at “A World on the Move: Emigration and Immigration in Europe and the Americas”, a conference to be held at The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University on April 23-25, 2009. Mr. Toubon, Chairman of the Advisory Board for the National Center for the History of Immigration (Cité Nationale de l'Histoire de l'Immigration) will discuss “European Immigration Policies Through the Lens of History” on Thursday, April 23 at 4 pm. Mr. Toubon is also a Member of the European Parliament, Honorary State Advisor (Conseiller d'état), and chair of the Eurimages Fund of the Council of Europe. Prior to this he held numerous positions in the French government, including those in the Agriculture, Interior, and the Prime Minister's office. Conference cosponsors are The Herbert H. Lehman Center for American History, Interuniversity Center for European-American History and Politics (CISPEA), The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, and The University Seminar on the City, Columbia University. The Conference features two dozen scholars from Europe and the United States who will address a variety of topics related to immigration, including Italian and Jewish aspects, globalization and the immigrant republic, laborers and entrepreneurs, and the view from the Americas. All attendees are invited to participate in a closing roundtable discussion Saturday April 25 at 10:45 a.m. Scholars participating include Barbara Faedda, Acting Director, Italian Academy for Advanced Studies; Owen Gutfreund, Barnard College, Columbia University; Rebecca Kobrin, Columbia University; Hasia Diner, New York University; Maurizio Vaudagna, University of Eastern Piedmont, Italy (Conference Co-Chair); Donna Gabaccia, University of Minnesota; Simone Cinotto, "Piero Bairati" Center in European-American Studies-University of Gastronomic Sciences, Italy; Philip Kasinitz, The Graduate Center, City University of New York; Kenneth T. Jackson, Columbia University; Marcelo Suarez-Orozco, New York University; Claudio Remeseira, Columbia University; Alice Kessler-Harris, Columbia University; Nancy Green, École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, France; Jan Rath, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Adam McKeown, Columbia University; John Foot, University College of London; Mae Ngai, Columbia University; Jaime Rodriguez, St. John's University; Michael T. Ryan, Columbia University; Jose Moya, Barnard College, Columbia University; Claudio W. Lomnitz, Columbia University; and Lisa Keller, Purchase College, SUNY (Conference Co-Chair) Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close