Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Emanuele Arciuli, piano Events Past Event Emanuele Arciuli, piano Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 20, 2019 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Part of Carnegie Hall’s Spring 2019 MIGRATIONS Festival Carnegie Hall's announcement of Arciuli's recital John Corigliano: Fantasy on an Ostinato Nino Rota: a selection from 15 Preludi Chick Corea: Children’s Songs 10-20 Curtis Cacioppo: Armed and Dangerous (fantasy-variations on L’Homme Armé) Missy Mazzoli: Isabelle Eberhardt Dreams of Pianos Frederic Rzewski: Down by the Riverside Winnsboro Cotton Mill Blues (from North American Ballads) Emanuele Arciuli has established himself as one of the most original and interesting performers on today’s classical music scene. His repertoire ranges from Bach to contemporary music, with a strong affinity for composers from the United States. He continuously develops new projects and is in constant pursuit of new ideas and innovative programs. Round Midnight Variations, a group work written for Arciuli by composers such as Crumb, Babbitt, Kernis, Rzewski, Torke, Daugherty, Bolcolm, Hoffman, and Harbison, has sparked the interest of international critics. His numerous recordings include Gates to Everywhere, with music by Carla Bley, Fred Hersch, and Chick Corea, the complete piano works of Berg and Webern, and the world premiere of Bruno Maderna’s Concerto for Piano and Orchestra. His CD dedicated to George Crumb (Bridge) was nominated for a Grammy Award. Recently VAI Records released a DVD featuring Ives' Concord Sonata. His most recent release is Walk in Beauty, a 2-CD set for Innova, featuring music composed for him by such musicians as John Luther Adams, Michael Daugherty, Kyle Gann, and Martin Bresnick, as well Native American piano music. Arciuli regularly performs at major concert halls and festivals, such as the Berliner Festwochen at Philharmonie, Wien Modern at Musikverein, La Scala Milano, Biennale di Venezia, Concertgebouw Amsterdam, Miami Piano Festival, Miller Theater New York, Maggio Musicale Fiorentino, Santa Fe Chamber Music Festival, Brescia and Bergamo International Piano Festival. He has collaborated with internationally renowned orchestras such as the Saint Paul Chamber, Saint Petersburg Philharmonic, Orquestra Sinfônica Brasileira, RAI National Symphony, Indianapolis Symphony, Rotterdam Philharmonic, Brussels Philharmonic and many others. Conductors with whom he has worked include Roberto Abbado, Andrey Boreyco, Dennis Russell Davies, James MacMillan, Arturo Tamayo, Wayne Marshall and Mario Venzago. His comprehensive book Musica per pianoforte negli Stati Uniti, was recently published in Italy. In May 2011, Emanuele Arciuli was awarded the most important Italian critic’s prize, the Premio Franco Abbiati. He is a professor at the Conservatory in Bari and a frequent guest instructor at several American universities. Photo Credit: Alberta Zallone Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close