Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events The Italian Harpsichord Events Past Event The Italian Harpsichord Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 6, 2010 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM Andrew Appel, harpsichordist 1861-2011: Celebrating the 150th Anniversary of the Unification of Italy The Fall 2010 concert series at Columbia University’s Italian Academy for Advanced Studies will present harpsichordist Andrew Appel in programs featuring music of Domenico Scarlatti, Galuppi, Zipoli, Paradies, Platti, Hasse, Boccherini, Cimarosa, and Clementi. Guest artists will include the tenor Thomas Cooley, violinist Krista Bennion Feeney, and cellist Loretta O’Sullivan. Andrew Appel was First Prize winner of the Erwin Bodkey Competition in Boston and is Artistic Director of the Four Nations Ensemble. He performs throughout Europe and the United States as soloist in many festivals including Italy's Spoleto Festival, New York's Mostly Mozart Festival, and the Redwoods Festival. As a recitalist, Mr. Appel has performed at Carnegie and Avery Fisher Halls in New York, as well as halls from the Music Academy of the West to the Smithsonian in Washington DC. In addition to his work with The Four Nations Ensemble, he has joined the Smithsonian Players, Orpheus, Opera Lafayette, The Grand Tour Orchestra and several European chamber orchestras. He has enjoyed critical acclaim for his recording of Bach works with Bridge Records and presently records for ASV and Smithsonian. Mr. Appel's most recent recording with ASV includes works by Bach, LeRoux, and Marchand. As director of the Four Nations Ensemble and as a presenter, Appel is known for pushing the classical music envelope with imaginative collaborations and programs. He connects Purcell and Gershwin, Marini and old-time fiddling, Chinese court music and music from Versailles. Mr. Appel has written program notes and articles for presenters around the country including Lincoln Center and National Public Radio, and has participated in discussions on education and chamber music programming at conferences of Chamber Music America, the Association of Performing Arts Presenters, and the New York State Council on the Arts. He currently serves as President of the Board of Trustees of Chamber Music America. Appel holds an international soloist degree from the Royal Conservatory in Antwerp and a Doctorate from the Juilliard School where he has taught harpsichord and music history. Appel has also taught at Moravian, Temple and Princeton Universities. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close