Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Written for Talea: Three Premieres Events Past Event Written for Talea: Three Premieres Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 14, 2016 7:30 PM - 9:30 PM James Baker conducting; singers Alice Teyssier, Nina Dante, & Jeff Gavett James Baker, Conductor Alice Teyssier and Nina Dante, Sopranos Jeff Gavett, Baritone Natacha Diels: Princess Nightmare Moon (2016) (US premiere) Taylor Brook: Exploded Views (2016) (World Premiere) Lewis Nielson: ...in terra aliena... (2015) (World Premiere) For its opening concert of the 2016-17 season, the Talea Ensemble presents its next installment of 'Written for Talea' concerts. The evening will include the world premieres of ...in terra aliena.. by Lewis Nielson and Taylor Brook's Exploded Views, as well as the US premiere of Natacha Diels's Princess Nightmare Moon, three dramatic works with very different derivations. Diels's whimsically disturbing Princess Nightmare Moon is theatrical, with musical and physical gestures to accompany the whirring, buzzing and clicking in the piece. Nielson's...in terra aliena... has a topical political message focusing on equality. Through music and text, Nielson uses the story of the trial of American abolitionist John Brown to explore true equality, rights and compassion. Brook's Exploded Views gives listeners a chance to explore the inner workings of music from almost a visual lens with several different viewpoints. From new instruments, to theatrics, to intense historical inspiration, the evening promises to be memorable. Talea is Ensemble-in-Residence at Columbia University for the 2016-17 academic year. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close