Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Jesse Prinz on "Wonder and Art" Events Past Event Jesse Prinz on "Wonder and Art" Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 12, 2017 12:30 PM - 2:30 PM What sets humans beings apart from other animals? According to Jesse Prinz, we are distinguished by the overlooked emotion of wonder. This is a seminar open only to Italian Academy Fellows. Jesse Prinz is Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. He is a notable expert in philosophy of psychology; he combines both philosophical and experimental methods to address enduring questions about the nature of the mind. His books include Furnishing the Mind: Concepts and Their Perceptual Basis (2002); Gut Reactions: A Perceptual Theory of the Emotions (2004); The Emotional Construction of Morals (2007); Beyond Human Nature: How Culture and Experience Shape the Human Mind (2012); The Conscious Brain: How Attention Engenders Experience (2012); and Works of Wonder: A Theory of Art (forthcoming in 2013). He is also author of more than one hundred papers. Prinz was a visiting fellow at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris, a research fellow at the School for Advanced Study at the University of London, and John J. Rogers Distinguished Professor in the department of philosophy at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, before coming to the Graduate Center in 2009. He holds a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Chicago. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close