Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Ernst van de Wetering (Rembrandt Research Project) Rembrandt: Studio Practice and Art Theory Events Past Event Ernst van de Wetering (Rembrandt Research Project) Rembrandt: Studio Practice and Art Theory Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 18, 2010 2:15 PM - 4:15 PM Co-sponsors: Columbia University Departments of Art History and History; the Queen Wilhelmina Chair in Dutch Studies Ernst van de Wetering, Head of the Rembrandt Research Project, discusses his ongoing research which reveals how students used works by the master as prototypes. Comparing works by master and students sharpens the eye for quality and offers insight into fundamental aspects of 17th-century painting. Ernst van de Wetering is Professor Emeritus of Art History at the University of Amsterdam. He has published extensively on Rembrandt and historical painting techniques, as well as in the field of theory and ethics of conservation and restoration. Ernst van de Wetering (1938) was first trained as an artist at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in The Hague. After finishing his training he became art teacher and artist. In 1968, while studying art history at the University of Amsterdam, he was invited as an assistant to the Rembrandt Research Project (RRP), which had started in that same year. In 1970 he became a member of the RRP team and in 1992 he succeeded Josua Bruyn as its chairman. Between 1969 and 1987 he was a staff member of the Central Research Laboratory for Objects of Art and Science in Amsterdam. Since 1987 he has been professor of Art History at the University of Amsterdam. The Rembrandt Research Project has published three volumes with the results of its investigation in A Corpus of Rembrandt Paintings. Volumes IV and V are about to appear. Ernst van de Wetering has published extensively and lectured in numerous countries on Rembrandt, on historic studio practice as well as in the field of theory and ethics of conservation and restoration. His recent book, Rembrandt. The Painter at Work (Amsterdam University/University of California Press) provides insight into a variety of technical, artistic and esthetic aspects of Rembrandt’s work. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close