Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Carlo Ginzburg: "Texts, Images, Reproductions: On the Shoulders of Walter Benjamin" Events Past Event Carlo Ginzburg: "Texts, Images, Reproductions: On the Shoulders of Walter Benjamin" Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Walter Benjamin Slide 2: Carlo Ginzburg with glasses Previous Next April 14, 2022 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Online This event was recorded and will be made available on our website in the coming weeks. Carlo Ginzburg, Italian Academy Fellow 2022–23, will present two online lectures this spring; this one (on April 14) is titled “Texts, Images, Reproductions: On the Shoulders of Walter Benjamin.” Walter Benjamin’s essay, “The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction,” as well as his unfinished project on Parisian arcades, have generated a great amount of research. The lecture will start with some of the questions raised by Benjamin in order to analyze a work of which he apparently was unaware. A somewhat paradoxical, hopefully fruitful exercise. About the other lecture: “Piero's 'Flagellation' as a Case Study” (March 31) About the speaker: Carlo Ginzburg has taught at the University of Bologna, at UCLA, and at the Scuola Normale of Pisa. His books, translated into more than twenty languages, include The Night Battles; The Cheese and the Worms; Clues, Myths, and the Historical Method; The Enigma of Piero della Francesca; History, Rhetoric, and Proof; The Judge and the Historian; Wooden Eyes; No Island is an Island; Threads and Traces; Fear Reverence Terror: Five Essays in Political Iconography; and Nondimanco. Machiavelli, Pascal. He received the Aby Warburg Prize (1992), the Humboldt-Forschungs Prize (2007), and the Balzan Prize for the History of Europe, 1400-1700 (2010). Images: Portrait of Walter Benjamin, photographer unknown, 1928. Portrait of Carlo Ginzburg by Monica Biancardi. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close