Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Old Masters: Art Spiegelman, Jules Feiffer, Alex Melamid Events Past Event Old Masters: Art Spiegelman, Jules Feiffer, Alex Melamid Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo December 4, 2014 - December 10, 2014 6:15 PM - 8:15 PM Cosponsors: Heyman Center for the Humanities The Writing Program of the School of the Arts Columbia University Libraries The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies The Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center Legendary artists and authors Jules Feiffer, Art Spiegelman, and Alex Melamid will discuss the history and achievements of aging artists, with a focus on artists whose best-known works were completed in the later years of their lives. The discussion will use as its starting point what renowned critic Barbara Herrnstein Smith called “the senile sublime.” From Michelangelo, to Willem de Kooning, to Chester Gould, all of whom lived into their 80s, these are artists whose later works reflect a higher state of mental freedom. It is these late works that have gained recognition at the turn of the 21st century. The discussion will also turn to Feiffer, an Old Master who has re-invented himself as an 85-year-old young "graphic novelist," having just published Kill My Mother to great acclaim. This event is at capacity and we are no longer accepting registration. Doors will open at 5:15 p.m. and registered guests will be seated on a first-come, first-served basis. Please bring your printed Eventbrite ticket to show at the door of the event. At 6:15 pm, any available seats will be filled by wait-list attendees. The event will be live-streamed on this web page beginning at 6:15 pm on December 2. For further information on the participants, please visit http://heymancenter.org/events/old-masters/ Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close