Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Marco Fusi / Kukuruz Quartet Events Past Event Marco Fusi / Kukuruz Quartet Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo February 20, 2019 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM This concert is featured in The New York Times' "8 Classical Music Concerts to See in N.Y.C. This Weekend" Marco Fusi, violin, viola d’amore Kukuruz Quartet: Philip Bartels, Duri Collenberg, Simone Keller, Lukas Rickli Guest appearance by Adam Tendler Salvatore Sciarrino: Fra sé Giacinto Scelsi: Xnoybis I, II, III Sciarrino: Capriccio di una corda John Cage: The ten thousand things Marcel Zaes: Quartet No. 10 for four electronic metronomes Julius Eastman: Gay Guerrilla Critic Alex Ross on Gay Guerrilla, the 1979 work for four pianos by American composer Julius Eastman (1940-1990): "We are thrown into a world that is as much Romantic as minimalist: the harmony thickens incrementally; quiet episodes are juxtaposed with thunderous fortissimos; pentatonic interludes add an angelic sweetness. There is a sense of worlds forming, of forces gathering." This concert includes two intermissions and ends at around 9:30 PM. With kind support from the Consulate General of Switzerland in New York, and from Pro Helvetia – Swiss Arts Council. Marco Fusi is a violinist/violist, and a passionate advocate for the music of our time. Among many collaborations with emerging and established composers, he has premiered works by Billone, Sciarrino, Eötvös, Cendo and Ferneyhough. Marco has performed with Pierre Boulez, Lorin Maazel, Alan Gilbert, Beat Furrer, David Robertson, and frequently plays with leading contemporary ensembles including Klangforum Wien, MusikFabrik, Meitar Ensemble, Mivos Quartet, Ensemble Linea, Interface (Frankfurt), Phoenix (Basel) and Handwerk (Köln). Marco records for Kairos (Pierluigi Billone – ITI. KE. MI / Equilibrio. Cerchio), Stradivarius (Salvatore Sciarrino works for violin and for viola; John Cage, Freeman Etudes; Scelsi Collection Vol. 7), Col Legno, and Geiger Grammofon. Marco also plays viola d’amore, commissioning new pieces and collaborating with composers to promote and expand existing repertoire for the instrument. Marco teaches Contemporary Chamber Music at the Milano conservatory “G. Verdi”. The Kukuruz Quartet was founded in 2014 in a corn field – “Kukuruz” means corn in several languages, and the Swiss-German expression “Mais machen” (literally “to make corn”) means to stir up mischief. The four pianists were first witnessed making their contribution to a production by musician and director Ruedi Häusermann at the Zurich Schauspielhaus. The quartet was performing on four so-called “well-prepared one-hand pianos”, having spent long sessions exploring different preparations and constructions. From the outset, the group has been engaged with classical music, jazz and improvisation. In the same year it was founded, Kukuruz also started its involvement with the works of Julius Eastman. They took Eastman's work on a tour through Switzerland, Germany and Holland, where they performed in concert halls, clubs, bars, and breweries, and made Eastman’s pieces accessible to a wide audience. In 2017, their performance at documenta 14 in the Megaro Mousikis concert hall in Athens – where they exchanged their rickety instruments for concert grand pianos – earned a standing ovation. A recording of four Eastman piano pieces followed in November 2017 on four Steinway D pianos in the main hall of the historic Radiostudio Zürich (Intakt Records). In the summer of 2018, Kukuruz took Eastman’s work on a “guerrilla tour” through Switzerland, transporting its own pianos. The tour took the quartet to several juvenile offender institutions, hospitals, thrift shops, clothes stores, galleries, bars and office buildings. Kukuruz Piano Quartet features 4 pianists on the unfamiliar combination of 4 upright or 4 grand pianos and sheds new light on the music of Julius Eastman. They're a close-knit group of divergent artistic personalities, emergent from training in disparate musical fields: Simone Keller is a versatile pianist in contemporary and classical music, Philip Bartels is an experimental theatre stage director, Duri Collenberg studied composition in Amsterdam and Lukas Rickli has broad experience in improvisation. Photo credit: Lothar Opilik Guerrilla Concert: Kukuruz Quartet plays Julius Eastman Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close