Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Afrofuturist Writing: Namwali Serpell and Samuel R. Delany Events Past Event Afrofuturist Writing: Namwali Serpell and Samuel R. Delany Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 9, 2022 7:00 PM - 8:00 PM Online event This online event, part of Carnegie Hall’s citywide spring Afrofuturism Festival, features an evening of readings and discussion between award-winning authors Samuel R. Delany and Namwali Serpell moderated by Smaran Dayal. In 2016, Samuel R. Delany was inducted into the New York State Writers Hall of Fame. He is the author of the award-winning novels Babel-17 and Dark Reflections, as well as Nova, Dhalgren, and the Return to Nevèrÿon series. A retired professor, he lives in Philadelphia with his partner Dennis, and his website is www.samueldelany.com. Zambian-American writer Namwali Serpell’s novel The Old Drift (2019) received numerous awards including the Anisfield-Wolf Book prize for fiction “that confronts racism and explores diversity,” the Arthur C. Clarke Award for science fiction, the Grand Prix des Associations Littéraires Prize for Belles-Lettres, and the L.A. Times’ Art Seidenbaum Award for First Fiction. She was co-recipient of the 2020 Windham-Campbell Prize for fiction (with Yiyun Li). She is a Professor of English at Harvard University. Her website is www.namwaliserpell.com. Smaran Dayal is a Ph.D. candidate in Comparative Literature at New York University, where he is writing a dissertation on literary Afrofuturism, and a Public Humanities Fellow at the Museum of the City of New York. He recently co-edited an anthology of American literature, Fictions of America: The Book of Firsts (2020). Contact Information Rick Whitaker (212) 854-1623 [email protected] Afrofuturist Writing: Namwali Serpell and Samuel R. Delany Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close