Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Department of Italian Studies Home Graduate People Undergraduate Events Diversity News Contact Welcome Department of Italian Studies Benvenuti/Welcome! Yale’s Department of Italian Studies offers the Ph.D. in Italian literature with wider methodological concerns and discourses, such as history, rhetoric and critical theories, comparison with other literatures, the figurative arts, religious and philosophical studies, medieval, Renaissance, and modern studies, and the contemporary state of Italian writing. At the undergraduate level, the Department of Italian Studies has two distinct missions: to provide instruction in the Italian language at all levels of competence, and to lead students to a broad appreciation and deep understanding of the literature and culture of Italy. The major in Italian is a liberal arts major designed to explore Italy’s vital role in the development of the humanistic values and disciplines that have infused Western culture over several centuries. Central to the major in Italian is the conviction that study of another language yields the important benefit of enlightening students about their own culture while instructing them about a foreign one. Core courses provide students with a solid linguistic, literary, and historical background in Italian. Additional offerings range across several disciplines, including the study of film, philosophy, comparative literature, history, political theory, art, religious studies, theater, architecture, and music. News FROM PANEL TO PUBLICATION May 17, 2022 Co-editor of Ferrante Unframed (2021) Costanza Barchiesi is a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Italian Studies. Her research explores classical reverberations in... Honorable Mention May 17, 2022 Giacomo Berchi selected for an Elizabethan Club Essay Honorable Mention for his essay entitled “The Son and the Sea”. Giovanni Miglianti--Class of 2022 May 17, 2022 The Paradox of Affect: Exposure and Modesty in Primo Levi?s Work Congratulations Giovanni!! More news... Jane Tylus Department Chair Millicent Marcus Director of Graduate Studies Simona Lorenzini Director of Undergraduate Studies Office Hours: Friday, 2-4pm: https://yale.zoom.us/j/95602488060 and by appointment Anna Iacovella Language Program Director Ann DeLauro Department Administrator (Re)thinking Landscape: Ways of Knowing / Ways of Being CALL FOR PAPERS DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSIONS MAY 31, 2022 Call For Papers Newsletter Department of Italian Studies Newsletter Fall 2021/Spring 2022 Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube