Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Three 2nds with Lucy Shelton Events Past Event Three 2nds with Lucy Shelton Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo February 2, 2011 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM Vocal chamber music with soprano Lucy Shelton and friends Works By Benson, Berio, Birtwistle, Carter, Dallapiccola, Feldman, Fiocco, Gabrielli, Messiaen , Scelsi and Sciarrino Guest artists will include Fred Sherry on cello, Steve Taylor, oboe, Charles Neidich, clarinet, Curt Macomber, violin, and others. Winner of two Walter W. Naumburg Awards – as chamber musician as well as solo recitalist – soprano Lucy Shelton enjoys an international career singing repertoire of all periods, with a primary focus on contemporary music. Notable among her numerous world premieres are works by Carter, Knussen, Davidovsky, Del Tredici, Grisey, Ruders, Schwantner, Albert and Wuorinen. An avid chamber musician, Shelton has been a guest artist with ensembles such as the Emerson, Brentano, and Guarnieri string quartets, the Lincoln Center Chamber Music Society, Speculum Musicae, Sospeso, New York New Music Ensemble, Boston Musica Viva, eighth blackbird, the Nash Ensemble, Klangform Wien, Schoenberg-Asko, Ensemble Moderne and Ensemble Intercontemporain. Highlights of recent seasons include her Zankel Hall debut with the Met Chamber Orchestra and Maestro James Levine in Carter’s A Mirror On Which To Dwell, numerous performances of Pierrot Lunaire; A Cabaret Opera in collaboration eighth blackbird and Blair Thomas Puppets, and the release of six new CD’s with works by Alberto Ginastera, Anne Le Baron, Virko Baley, Louis Karchin, Chinary Ung and Charles Wuorinen. She has taught at the Third Street Settlement School in Manhattan, Eastman School, New England Conservatory, Britten-Pears School and the Cleveland Institute. She joined the resident artist faculty of the Tanglewood Music Center in 1996. In the fall of 2007 she joined the Manhattan School of Music’s Contemporary Performance faculty. Press "Columbia's Italian Academy has become a locus for offbeat concerts, usually with a Mediterranean accent. This one, offered by the invaluable veteran soprano Lucy Shelton, centers on vocal chamber music" From The New Yorker coverage of the February 2, 2011, concert "Three 2nds with Lucy Shelton" Read more: original web page "Shelton … proved that contemporary vocal music can indeed be as warm, lyrical, and beautiful as music from any other period. Classical music fans should not miss the second and third of the 'Three 2nds.'" From Columbia Spectator coverage of February 2, 2011, of the concert series "Three 2nds with Lucy Shelton" Read more: original web page Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close