Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events GIRLMACHINE Events Past Event GIRLMACHINE Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo girlmachine invitation November 11, 2009 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM Honoring the centennial year of Italian Futurism. Featured in Performa09 and developed in residence at Robert Wilson’s Watermill Center. Honoring the centennial year of Italian Futurism, GIRLMACHINE is a performance presented at the Teatro of The Italian Academy on November 11, 2009. Featured in PERFORMA09, the renowned biennial for new visual performance art in New York City, GIRLMACHINE will inaugurate the symposium “Beyond Futurism: F.T. Marinetti, Writer,” organized by Professor Paolo Valesio and the Department of Italian at Columbia University. GIRLMACHINE is an investigation of Futurism’s ambiguous vitality and its complex relationship to the modern body, exploring notions of masculine identity and mechanized erotics. A Futurist club of men, women and objects created by a collective of artists across art, theatre, architecture and music. GIRLMACHINE traces these themes through the lens of diverse sources—whether directly linked to the Futurist movement or not. The performance will unfold in an associative journey through poetry, novels, manifestos, obsessions, tropes and stereotypes, along with contemporary texts and song-lyrics; taking certain conceits of Futurist masculinity as hyperbole. The directors Charles Chemin and Carlos Soto will work on the use of fragment. They will build vibrant tableaux by exploring the relations between still images and movements, silence and orchestrated words, repeated and sudden actions. Bodies, voices, decor, lights, texts will be treated like vivid material, like layers that could erect and be destroyed in an antagonistic escalation. To contrast the rich and overdecorated neo-Renaissance-style Teatro, (venturing even to the exteriors of the building) the architect Christian Wassmann creates an inflated, transforming installation employing mirrored foil, light and gas. Large, connected tetrahedrons float in space and change their configuration throughout the performance; like additional actors questioning formality and gravity. GIRLMACHINE will be built and rehearsed during a 2 week Fall Residency at the Watermill Center in Long Island, founded by artist/director Robert Wilson. Co-organizer Esplor/Azioni, a Rome-based non-profit, is currently developing a sister-project in Italy. Collaborators Direction and Dramaturgy: Carlos Soto, Charles Chemin Installation: Christian Wassmann Music and Sound: Tristan Bechet Light: Eugene Tsai Costume Design: Carlos Soto Production: Luisa Gui Cast: Jennifer Dees, Clara Galante, Elke Luyten, Alice Stern, Mai Uedaand Joshua Seidner Assistant Direction: Elena Gui Installation Assistants: Manasi Pandey, Tien Ling, Zachary Salinger-Simonson Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close