Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Julia Den Boer, piano Events Past Event Julia Den Boer, piano Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 10, 2019 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Music of Giulia Lorusso, Luigi Nono, Giacinto Scelsi, and Claudia Jane Scroccaro (a world premiere) Giacinto Scelsi., Action Music IV, VI, VII and Aitsi Giulia Lorusso, Deserts (2018) Claudia Jane Scroccaro, (S)toccata (2019) Luigi Nono, ...Sofferte Onde Serene... French-American pianist Julia Den Boer is a strong advocate of contemporary music. Based in New York city, she performs internationally as a soloist and chamber musician and has commissioned and premiered numerous works. She is committed to exploring and pushing her instrument’s boundaries through close collaboration with composers and has had the opportunity to work with some of the most prominent composers of our time such as Heinz Holliger, Philippe Leroux, Michael Hersch, Martin Matalon and Kaija Saariaho. Julia is a recipient of the Solti Foundation award, was awarded the Prix Mention Speciale Maurice Ohana at the 2012 International Orleans Competition, and won the ninth annual Mikhashoff Trust Fund for New Music Pianist/Composer Commissioning Project with composer Zosha Di Castri. She is part of Kylwyria, a New-York based horn, violin and piano trio dedicated to commissioning new repertoire for their unique instrumentation. Recent and upcoming performances include solo and ensemble performances at the Festival d'Automne in Paris, Unerhörte Musik in Berlin, the Tectonics Festival in Glasgow, the CMC in Toronto, the Banff Center, Miller Theater (NYC), the North Carolina New Music Initiative, the SWR in Freiburg, New Music Concerts in Toronto, the MATA Festival, the International Computer Music Conference, the Klangspuren Festival in Austria, and Manifeste at IRCAM. Her performances have been broadcasted on Q2, CBC Radio 2, the SWR and France Musique. In addition to her performing activities Julia is a dedicated educator. She is on faculty at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy NY and the Third Street Music Settlement, she also maintains an extensive private studio in NYC. Julia is a native of Lyon, France. She holds a Bachelor of Music from McGill University where she studied with Sara Laimon and holds a Master and Doctorate of Musical Arts from SUNY Stony Brook University where she studied under the mentorship of Gilbert Kalish. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close