Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Magdalena Baczewska, piano Events Past Event Magdalena Baczewska, piano Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 15, 2017 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Works by Berio, Chopin, Clementi, Debussy, Monteverdi, and D. Scarlatti Clementi: Sonata op. 25 No. 5 Monteverdi: Canzonetta (arr. M. Baczewska) Berio: Wasserklavier; Erdenklavier Chopin: Nocturne, op. 48 No. 1; Scherzo No. 3, op. 39 D. Scarlatti: 6 sonatas Debussy: Images, Book II Polish-American pianist and harpsichordist Magdalena Baczewska has enjoyed a multifaceted career as concertizer, educator, recording artist, producer, and administrator. Director of the Music Performance Programand Lecturer in Music at Columbia, Baczewska has been acclaimed as a “world-class” musician (The American Record Guide), lauded as “eloquent and technically flawless” (The Washington Post) and “highly sophisticated and truly admirable” (The Weekend, New York) in her “taste and admirable sensitivity” (Palm Beach Arts Paper). Having performed as soloist with the San Francisco Symphony, China National Symphony, and Macao Symphony, among others, she has also made appearances with violinist Joshua Bell and Tan Dun, with whom she has shared extensive orchestral and chamber collaborations. She has appeared in New York’s Carnegie Hall, San Francisco’s Davies Symphony Hall, Beijing’s National Center for Performing Arts, Guangzhou’s Opera House, Shenzhen’s Polytheater, Paris’ Salle Cortot, among others. Baczewska is a laureate of the Outstanding Achievement Award from the Polish Minister of Culture, as well as several international piano competitions (the Kosciuszko Foundation’s Chopin Competition, the Dorothy McKenzie Recognition Award, Prix du piano Ecoles d'Art Américaines Fontainebleau, Grand Prix European American Music Alliance Paris). Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close