Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Un poeta sperso tra gli uomini: Antonio Barolini tra Italia e America Events Past Event Un poeta sperso tra gli uomini: Antonio Barolini tra Italia e America Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 30, 2010 10:00 AM - 2:00 PM Organized by Paolo Valesio & Nicola Di Nino, Columbia. Co-sponsors: Italian Poetry Review; Dept. of Italian, Columbia; Dept. of Modern Languages & Literatures, Fordham; Accademia Olimpica di Vicenza. The Italian Poetry Review (IPR) has organized a symposium on the writer Antonio Barolini, the centenary of whose birth falls in 2010. Speakers at the symposium include the poet's widow Helen Barolini and his daughter Professor Teodolinda Barolini, as well as Nicola Di Nino(Columbia University), the organizer of the symposium, Paolo Valesio(Chair of the Department of Italian at Columbia), Renato Camurri(University of Verona), Monica Giachino and Michela Rusi (University “Ca’ Foscari ” of Venice). Antonio Barolini (1910-1971) was a poet, novelist and journalist whose life spanned Italy and United States. In 1943, he directed the local newspaper in his native city Vicenza, where he was jailed for his attempts at freedom of expression. Later, he collaborated with another intellectual from Vicenza: Neri Pozza who, with Barolini’s guidance launched what became a prestigious publishing house. In this period, Barolini wrote a collection of poems Il meraviglioso giardino (1942) and a novel La memoria di Stefano(1943). In the 1950s, Barolini moved to the United States and began a new and creative phase of his literary career. He collaborated with The New Yorkerand published the poetry collection Elegie di Croton (1959), with which he won the prestigious Premio Bagutta, and the novel Una lunga pazzia(1962). His literary production, which earned the praise of writers such as Pier Paolo Pasolini, Eugenio Montale, Pietro Pancrazi, Geno Pampaloni, and others, is in need of a revisitation today. To this end, the Barolini heirs have donated the full archives of the Barolini papers to the Biblioteca Bertoliana of Vicenza. These documents include correspondence with major political and cultural figures of Italy and the United States during the 1960s and 1970s Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close