Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Projects & Initiatives Law and its Manifestations Law and its Manifestations The Academy supports research, seminars, and publications to look at law and its images, and at the relationship between law and nature in theory, philosophy, history, and religious thought. Academy Fellows associated with this project include Carolin Behrmann, Manuela Bragagnolo, and Lidia Santarelli. Among the conferences supported by the Academy in this area are Images, Bodies and Actions of the Law and Images of Shame. Infamy, Diffamation and the ethics of oeconomia. The most recent publication in this area is Rule of Law: Cases, Strategies, and Interpretations, commissioned and edited by Barbara Faedda, the Academy's Executive Director, with essays that address racism, misinformation, human rights, the status of women, the treatment of indigenous peoples, the environment, and more. David Freedberg, the Academy's Director, contributed an essay on images, law, and the criminal body in the 16th century; the other authors (some of them former Academy Fellows) are Giuliano Amato, Bridgette Baldwin, John D. Bessler, Mary Bosworth, Marina Calloni, Maria Adele Carrai, Paolo Carta, Victoria Chenaut, Paul Craig, Jacques deLisle, Francesca Esposito, Andriani Fili, David Freedberg, Anna Elisabetta Galeotti, Paul Gowder, Kate Gunn, Antara Haldar, Stellina Jolly, Chelsey L. Kivland, Masao Kotani, Anna Loretoni, Bruce McIvor, Luca CM Melchionna, Hoolo ‘Nyane, Gianluigi Palombella, Irene Pasquetto, Jothie Rajah, Julio Ríos-Figueroa, Costanza Sciubba Caniglia, Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, Kenneth Stow, and Maartje van der Woude. Expand all Collapse all 2019–2020 Carolin Behrmann Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florenz – Max-Planck-Institut (Italy) Perceiving law: early modern normativity and the senses 2019-2020: Spring Fellow for the Academy project “Law and its Manifestations” Carolin Behrmann is an art historian focusing on political and legal visualities in early modern culture. She is directing the research project The Nomos of Images at the Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florenz, Max-Planck-Institute that investigates in multiple normative dimensions to understand how visuality and aesthetic experience actively take part in and shape juridical normativity, involving form, perception, action, and knowledge. She has worked as a scientific collaborator at the Department for Art and Visual History at the Humboldt University of Berlin (2005-2011), has been a pre-doctoral fellow at the Getty Research Institute, Los Angeles (2008-2009), and a post-doctoral researcher at the KHI in Florence (2011-2014). In 2011 she completed her PhD Tyrant and Martyr. Images and the History of Ideas of the Law around 1600 (DeGruyter 2015) that explores the significance of the imagery of martyrdom in the context of the consolidation of statehood, law, and early globalization. At the Academy she will be working on a book project addressing multiple aspects of a visual common sense and visual literacy with a focus on the 17th-18th century, that ultimately aims to address current debates around a “common sense” of visual literacy in the digital age. 2015–2016 Manuela Bragagnolo Ecole Normale Supérieure de Lyon Law, politics, and physiognomy from the 16th to the 18th centuries: a study of Giovanni Ingegneri’s works 2015-2016: Fall Fellow for the Academy project “Law and its Manifestations” Manuela Bragagnolo is a Post-doctoral Fellow at the Laboratoire d’Excellence COMOD (Constitution de la modernité) at the University of Lyon (2014-2015) and a member of the research lab Triangle, at the École Normale Supérieure, Lyon. She received her Ph.D in Legal Studies and History of Political Thought from the University of Trento in 2009. After her Ph.D studies she received grants for research from the École Normale Supérieure in Lyon and from the Institut d’Histoire de la Réformation in Geneva. She was Substitute Professor of Christian Latin Language and Culture at the University of Geneva and member of the academic staff of the Institut d’histoire de la Réformation (IHR)(2014-2015). She is member of EMoDIR (Research Group in Early Modern Religious Dissents and Radicalism) and of Laboratoire Italien‘s editorial staff. She is working on a book on the importance of Italian Renaissance culture in the 18th century, particularly in Lodovico Antonio Muratori’s legal, political and religious thought. Her fields of interest include history of legal, political and religious thought between the 16th and the 18th centuries, as well as history of medicine and physiognomy. Her project at the Italian Academy aims to investigate the links between law and physiognomy in Renaissance Italy. Web page: https://ens-lyon.academia.edu/ManuelaBragagnolo Working papers Manuela Bragagnolo, Law, Physiognomy and Medicine in Sixteenth-Century Venice: The Case of Giovanni Ingegneri, Bishop of Capodistria († 1600), 2015-2016 2006–2007 Lidia Santarelli Brown University On the Fascist Discourse on Law as Art, Religion, and Science 2006-2007: Spring Fellow Associate for the Academy project “Law and its Manifestations” Working papers Lidia Santarelli, History versus Memory? A Discussion on Italian War Crimes in World War II, 2006-2007 The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close