Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Summer Online Festival continues with Minervini 3 Events Past Event Summer Online Festival continues with Minervini 3 Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo August 21, 2020 12:00 PM - 2:00 PM “Low Tide” The special-access period has expired. Minervini’s 2012 film is an autobiographical story of a boy growing up nearly alone. He’s left to figure things out by instinct and experience and grit. This remarkable film, with little dialogue, is unsettling and unforgettable. Watch Minervini’s conversation with Italian Academy Fellow and New Yorker writer Rich Benjamin, and see all festival presentations here. Born in Fermo, Italy, in 1970, Roberto Minervini obtained a degree in Economics and Commerce at the University of Ancona and a doctorate in History of Cinema at the University of Madrid. He moved to the United States in October 2000 to work as an IT consultant. In 2004, he completed a master’s degree in media studies at the New School. From 2006 to 2007, he taught at De La Salle University in Manila, Philippines. Minervini began writing, directing, and producing films shortly after completing his master’s degree at the New School. Prior to producing full-length feature films, he made a number of shorts, including Voodoo Doll, Come to Daddy, Notes, and The Fireflies. 2011’s The Passage was a nominee for the Golden Zenith at the Montréal World Film Festival. Low Tide, his 2012 film, showed at the Venice Film Festival, winning the Christopher D. Smithers Foundation Special Award and garnering a nomination for the Venice Horizons Award. His film Stop the Pounding Heart was included in the Official Selection of the 2013 Cannes Film Festival and has won numerous awards at other festivals, including the David di Donatello Award for Best Documentary. The Other Side was shown in the Un Certain Regard section of the 2015 Cannes Film Festival 2015. At the 2018 Venice Film Festival, What You Gonna Do When the World’s on Fire? was nominated for the Golden Lion award and won the Premio Vivere da Sportivi Award, the Fair Play Cinema Award, and the UNICEF Award. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close