Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Stanford Introductory Studies Search this site Submit Search Menu Home SLE About SLE Prospective Students Key Facts about SLE Student Perspectives Meet the SLE Instructors Current Syllabus Syllabus Archive SLE in the News ITALIC ITALIC Faculty ITALIC Student Artwork ITALIC in the News ESF About the Education as Self-Fashioning Program ESF Courses & Instructors New ESF Courses ESF Enrollment ESF Lecture Series 2021-22 ESF Plenary Lectures 2020-21 ESF Plenary Lectures 2019-20 ESF Plenary Lectures 2017-18 ESF Plenary Lectures 2016-17 ESF Plenary Lectures 2015-16 ESF Plenary Lectures 2014-15 ESF Guest Lectures 2013-14 ESF Guest Lectures 2012-2013 ESF Guest Lectures Teach with SIS Academic Technology Tech Documentation SIS Equipment Loan Pool ITALIC is an arts-minded, residence-based academic program for first year students. Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation ITALIC Faculty ITALIC Student Artwork ITALIC in the News Main content start Students who participate in this yearlong academic program are part of a tightly knit arts community that lives together in Stern Hall’s Burbank House residence, a university theme house dedicated to the arts. All lectures, sections, workshops and guest talks take place in a cluster of specially-designed on-site seminar and arts practice rooms dedicated to Burbank residents. Conversations often carry on from class to the dining room and back to the dorm late at night, where they morph into jam sessions or collaborative projects in the art studio. In class and on field trips, ITALIC students study the history and theory of art across the disciplines with faculty from the departments of Art & Art History, Music, English, and Theater & Performance Studies. ITALIC asks you to ponder and examine: What is art? What is it for? What does it do? How have people questioned the value of art? How do works of art challenge us, socially and personally? What challenges can we put to art? What artworks matter most to you? Visit Notes from a Young Artist to see how ITALIC students have answered these questions. ITALIC Quick Facts Residence: Burbank Size: 45 students Commitment: 3 quarters, 11 units Requirements fulfilled COLLEGE (Civic, Liberal, and Global Education) PWR 1 in ITALIC 95W WAYS AII (Aesthetic & Interpretive Inquiry) in ITALIC 91 WAYS AII or CE (Creative Expression) in ITALIC93 WAYS CE [optional] in ITALIC 92 Quarterly Structure for 2021-22 Autumn: 4 units, ITALIC 91 50 minutes of lecture, 2x per week 50 minutes of discussion section, 2x per week Winter: 4 units, ITALIC PWR 110 minutes of class, 2x per week Spring: 3 units, ITALIC 93 50 minutes of lecture, 1x per week 50 minutes of discussion section, 2x per week ITALIC students pass on their love of art ITALIC Overview: Faculty Director Karla Oeler and other members of the community discuss the ITALIC experience. Contact Us: Email Associate Director Kim Beil Stanford Stanford Introductory Studies Web Login Address Stanford University Introductory Studies Sweet Hall, 2nd Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Stanford Campus Map Stanford Undergrad Instagram Stanford Undergrad Twitter Connect with SIS Arts Intensive COLLEGE ESF Introductory Seminars ITALIC SLE Sophomore College Web Accessibility Stanford University is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to everyone, including individuals with disabilities. Having trouble accessing any of this content due to a disability? Learn more about accessibility at Stanford and report accessibility issues. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top