Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events David Rosand, “Ut pictor poeta: Titian's Early Mythologies” Events Past Event David Rosand, “Ut pictor poeta: Titian's Early Mythologies” Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 8, 2010 3:15 PM - 5:15 PM David Rosand is Meyer Schapiro Professor emeritus of Art History at Columbia University, where he has taught since 1964. His scholarship has focused on the Italian Renaissance and the art of Venice in particular, and on the history and criticism of the graphic arts. His publications in the field include Titian and the Venetian Woodcut (1976--co-authored with Michelangelo Muraro), Titian. (1978), Painting in Cinquecento Venice: Titian, Veronese, Tintoretto (1982; rev. ed. 1997), The Meaning of the Mark: Leonardo and Titian (1988), Myths of Venice: The Figuration of a State(2001), and Drawing Acts: Studies in Graphic Expression and Representation(2002). In the area of American painting, another of his fields of interest, he has published Robert Motherwell on Paper: Drawings, Prints, Collages(1997) and The Invention of Painting in America (2004). His latest book, a monograph on the art of Paolo Veronese, is scheduled for publication next year. Prof. Rosand is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti and the Ateneo Veneto in Venice, and has served for many years on the board of the Renaissance Society of America, which has honored him with the Paul Oskar Kristeller Lifetime Achievement Award (2007). He is project director for Save Venice, Inc., an organization dedicated to the conservation of the art and monuments of the city on the lagoon. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close