Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Battle Royale! Events Past Event Battle Royale! Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 17, 2017 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM A Conversation about Japanese Art History: Nobuo Tsuji and Takashi Murakami Contemporary artist Takashi Murakami and art historian Nobuo Tsuji will discuss key issues surrounding the terms “Superflat” and “kazari” and their connections to Japanese art. The audience will also receive a preview of the exhibition, Takashi Murakami: Lineage of Eccentrics, A Collaboration with Nobuo Tsuji and Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. The books Lineage of Eccentrics: Matabei to Kuniyoshi and Nobuo Tsuji vs. Takashi Murakami: Battle Royale! Japanese Art History will be available for purchase after the lecture, and Mr. Murakami will be on hand to sign them. More information on the exhibition: http://www.mfa.org/exhibitions/takashi-murakami RSVP required by October 15: [email protected]. Sponsored by The Mary Griggs Burke Center for Japanese Art; The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies. Photo by Naohiro Tsutsuguchi (Shinchōsha) ©2009 Takashi Murakami/Kaikai Kiki Co., Ltd. All rights reserved. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close