Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Titian: Love Desire Death Events Past Event Titian: Love Desire Death Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo September 3, 2020 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Venice is once again uniquely at the forefront in responding to global change. The convergence of our pandemic, its attendant economic transformation, and the rapidly advancing change in our climate is propelling Venice to reinvent itself. This is a time of great uncertainty, opportunity, and excitement for La Serenissima. We are thrilled to invite you to the first event in our new webinar series “Venice Rising.” Organized by Casa Muraro, Columbia’s Center for Venetian Studies, “Venice Rising” will offer a series of online lectures, interviews, and workshops on Venice’s transformations, past, present and future. Participants will join us from around the world and from across various disciplines. Introduced by: Diane Bodart David Rosand Associate Professor of Italian Renaissance Art History, Columbia University Speakers: Matthias Wivel ’04GSAS; the Aud Jebsen Curator of Sixteenth-Century Italian Paintings at the National Gallery in London Cleo Nisse ’17GSAS, ’18GSAS; Ph.D. Candidate in the Department of Art History and Archaeology at Columbia University; 2020–23 Paul Mellon Fellow, CASVA The conversation will focus on the exhibition Titian: Love Desire Death, the first reunion of Titian’s famed poesie paintings in 400 years. Currently on view at the National Gallery in London, the exhibition will travel across the Atlantic to Boston’s Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in 2021. Sponsors: Columbia’s Casa Muraro (Venice); Department of Art History and Archaeology; Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America See details about the second, third, fourth, and fifth events in the series. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close