Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events The Default Mode Network Events Past Event The Default Mode Network Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo February 6, 2014 - February 7, 2014 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Featuring: Randy Buckner (Harvard) Felicity Callard (Durham U.) Maurizio Corbetta (Washington U. School of Medicine) Rex Jung (U. of New Mexico) Bill Kelley (Dartmouth) Daniel Margulies (Max Planck Institute Leipzig) Marcus Raichle (Washington U. School of Medicine) Yvette Sheline (UPenn) Nathan Spreng (Cornell) and Edward A. Vessel (NYU). Organizers: David Freedberg (Italian Academy), G. Gabrielle Starr (NYU), and Edward A. Vessel (NYU) Co-sponsor: NYU's College of Arts and Science. Covering a wide range of work on the Default Mode Network (DMN), leading neuroscientists from top research institutes will gather in New York for a two-day symposium to discuss what the brain is doing when in a wakeful resting state. The DMN – a network of brain regions typically found to be suppressed when individuals focus on their external environment – has been hypothesized to generate spontaneous thoughts during daydreaming and may be crucial for self-referential mental processing, social interactions and the understanding of many neurological disorders. Topics of discussion include the discovery and metabolic characterization of the DMN, the relationship and functional dynamics between the DMN and other networks that are identifiable through resting-state functional connectivity, task-based studies that have helped to characterize the involvement of subnetworks of the DMN in a variety of functions, the relevance of DMN function for a variety of disease states, social neuroscience work that has investigated the role of the DMN in "self versus other" distinctions, and the potential involvement of the DMN in aesthetic experience and creativity. The symposium appeals to scientists with expertise in neuroscience or psychology, as well as humanists and artists interested in neuroscientific research. The event, hosted by the Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America at Columbia University in cooperation with the College of Arts and Science at New York University. Featuring talks by: Randy Buckner Felicity Callard Maurizio Corbetta Rex Jung Bill Kelley Daniel Margulies Marcus Raichle Nathan Spreng Yvette Sheline and Ed Vessel. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close