Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events The Restitution Debate: African Art in a Global Society Events Past Event The Restitution Debate: African Art in a Global Society Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 18, 2019 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM Watch videos, below. In November 2018, Felwine Sarr and Bénédicte Savoy released a report that had been prepared for the President of France, Emmanuel Macron, entitled The Restitution of African Cultural Heritage. Toward a New Relational Ethics. This report has set in motion a debate that could have a profound impact on the status of African art held in collections around the world. During the full-day international symposium, the authors of the report will present their recommendations and reflect on the response that they have received over the past year. A panel of curators, scholars, and cultural entrepreneurs will respond to the issues, which have broad ramifications resonating well beyond Africa and Europe. Speakers: Erica P. Jones (Fowler Museum, University of California, Los Angeles); Daouda Keïta (Musée National du Mali, Bamako); Pap Ndiaye (Institut d’études politiques de Paris); Alain Patrice Nganang (Stony Brook University, New York); Ugochukwu-Smooth C. Nzewi (The Museum of Modern Art, New York); Ciraj Rassool (University of the Western Cape, Cape Town, South Africa); Felwine Sarr (Université Gaston Berger, Saint-Louis, Senegal); Bénédicte Savoy (Technische Universität Berlin; Collège de France); Z. S. Strother (Columbia University); and Marie-Cécile Zinsou (Fondation Zinsou, Cotonou, Bénin). Souleymane Bachir Diagne (Columbia University) will serve as moderator and philosopher Paulin J. Hountondji (Université Nationale du Bénin, Cotonou) will act as respondent and lead the final discussion. David Freedberg (Columbia University) will open the symposium. This event is part of the Academy's International Observatory for Cultural Heritage. Presented by: Institute of African Studies, Columbia University With the generous support of: The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America, Columbia University Department of Art History and Archaeology, Columbia University Department of Art History, Barnard College Maison Française, Columbia University And with a grant from: The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Expand all Collapse all Symposium Details Morning Session (9 am – 12 pm) 9:00 Opening remarks David Freedberg, Pierre Matisse Professor of the History of Art; Director of the Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America at Columbia University, New York 9:10 Welcome Souleymane Bachir Diagne, Professor of Philosophy; Director of the Institute of African Studies at Columbia University, New York 9:25 “African artifacts: the next step, a new relational ethic” Felwine Sarr, Professor at the University Gaston Berger in Saint Louis, Senegal 9:45 “Transparence, amnésie. 40 ans de débats sur la restitution, 1978–2019” / “Transparency, amnesia: 40 years of debates on restitution, 1978–2019” Bénédicte Savoy, Professor of Modern Art History at the Institute of Art History and Historical Urban Studies at the Technische Universität Berlin 10:10 Discussion 10:30–10:45 Coffee break 11:00 “Can products of the imagination be sent back to tyrannies?” Patrice Nganang, Writer, Professor at Stony Brook University, New York 11:20 "Post–Sarr-Savoy Report: matters arising" Ugochukwu-Smooth C. Nzewi, Steven and Lisa Tananbaum Curator in the Department of Painting and Sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art, New York 11:40 Discussion 12:00–1:30 Break Afternoon Session (1:30 pm – 5 pm) 1:30 “Restitution, disciplines and decolonization” Ciraj Rassool, Professor of History at the University of the Western Cape; Director, African Programme in Museum and Heritage Studies, Cape Town, South Africa 1:50 “The life of the Bamenda Provincial Museum (Cameroon): audience, funding, and infrastructure” Erica P. Jones, Associate Curator of African Arts, Fowler Museum, University of California, Los Angeles 2:10 “African art and the African diaspora in a historical perspective” Pap Ndiaye, Professor of History at the Centre d’histoire de Sciences Po, Paris 2:30 Discussion 3:00–3:15 Coffee break 3:15 “Réapproprions-nous nos biens culturels méconnus” / “Let's reappropriate our unknown cultural heritage” Daouda Keïta, Director of the Musée National du Mali, Bamako 3:35 “Our history’s future” Marie-Cécile Zinsou, President of the Fondation Zinsou, Cotonou, Bénin 3:55 “Listening” Zoë Strother, Riggio Professor of African Art at Columbia University, New York 4:15 Discussion Paulin J. Hountondji, Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at the Université Nationale du Bénin, Cotonou Professor Hountondji will respond to the conference as a whole and lead an open discussion Morning Session Video Afternoon Session Video Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close