Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Emanuele Torquati, Nordic Ballads Events Past Event Emanuele Torquati, Nordic Ballads Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 28, 2015 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM A recital of works on piano by Brahms, Grieg, Saariaho, and Zemlinsky Program: Saariaho: "Ballade" (2005) Brahms: "4 Ballades, Op. 10" Zemlinsky: "4 Ballades" Grieg: "Ballade, Op. 24" Emanuele Torquati has been hailed as “a thoughtful musician and a champion of contemporary music” by the New York Times and “a vibrant pianist, excellent overall” by the Boston Globe. His career has taken him to some of the most illustrious venues in such cities as Addis Abeba, Buenos Aires (Teatro Colon), San Francisco, Banff, New York, Chicago, Vancouver, Boston, Paris, Lyon, Frankfurt, Berlin, Leipzig, Berlin, Prague, Krakow, Munich, Graz, Ljubljana, Kiev and Oslo. Torquati was artist in residence at The Banff Centre with the project “Voyage Messiaen” in 2008 and in 2010 with “Intimate Sketches: Visions on Leos Janàcek”, and at the IIC Paris with the program “Les Promesses de l’Art”. His first recording, “Promenade sentimentale”, devoted to the Complete Piano Music of Albert Roussel has been followed by the Complete Piano Music by Alexander Zemlinsky for Brilliant Classics. With cellist Francesco Dillon, he recorded 3 CDs with Schumann rarities and the Complete Works by Franz Liszt. Torquati has worked with leading composers including Salvatore Sciarrino, Sylvano Bussotti, Wolfgang Rihm, Kaija Saariaho, Beat Furrer, Jonathan Harvey, Brett Dean, Magnus Lindberg, Peter Ablinger and has collaborated with musicians such as Isabel Charisius, Matthias Pintscher, Michael Gielen, Marisol Montalvo, Garth Knox, Susanne Linke, Inon Barnatan and Prometeo String Quartet. The recipient of several international awards, Torquati has been supported by institutions such as CEMAT, Accademia Musicale Chigiana, DAAD Bonn, Ambassade de France en Italie, Universität für Musik und Darstellende Kunst Graz, Ensemble Modern, The Banff Centre. Torquati was born in Milan in 1978. His most influential teachers were Giancarlo Cardini and Konstantin Bogino. He also worked closely with Alexander Lonquich, Yvonne Loriod-Messiaen, Ian Pace, and Michael Wendeberg. He went on to specialize in Chamber Music first with Franco Rossi (Quartetto Italiano), then he achieved a Masters Degree at the International Chamber Music Academy of the Trio di Trieste. He is artistic director of Villa Romana. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close