Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Three Sopranos: Lucy Shelton Events Past Event Three Sopranos: Lucy Shelton Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 4, 2009 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM Three takes on Berio’s 1966 Sequenza III, and programs of other Italian contemporary music The Spring 2009 concert series at Columbia University's Italian Academy for Advanced Studies will present three recitals by leading sopranos specializing in contemporary music who will present works from Italy and the U.S. Each of the three programs will include Luciano Berio's 1966 Sequenza III for solo voice. It begins with the only artist to receive the International Walter W. Naumburg Award twice, as a soloist and as a chamber musician, soprano Lucy Shelton. Shelton has performed repertoire from Bach to Boulez in major recital, chamber and orchestral venues throughout the world. Highly acclaimed as an interpreter of new music, she continues to bring new audiences into the sound world of new works, often composed for her. Notable among numerous world premieres are Elliott Carter's Of Challenge and Of Loveand his Tempo e Tempi, Oliver Knussen's Whitman Settings, Stephen Albert's Flower of the Mountain, Joseph Schwantner's Sparrows and his Two Poems of Agueda Pizarro and Magabunda, Alexander Goehr's Sing Ariel and The Mouse Metamorphosed Into a Maid, David Del Tredici's Quaint Events, Poul Ruder's The Bells, Grard Grisey's L'Icone Paradoxiale, Ned Rorem's Schuyller Songs, Sally Beamish's Monster, James Yannatos's Trinity Mass, Lewis Spratlan's Of Time and the Seasons, and Rob Zuidam's Johanna's Lament. She also performs her standard repertoire in venues across the United States and in Europe, including Berio's Folk Songs, Babbitt's Philomel, Knussen's Hums and Songs of Winnie the Pooh, Foss's Time Cycle, Shostakovich's Romantic Suite, and Schoenberg's Pierrot Lunaire. Her Naxos discography includes music by Adolphe, Markevich and Wuorinen. Since her return to the United States from England in 1997 she has had five recordings released on Deutsche Grammophon and Koch International with repertoire by Carter, Stravinsky, Crawford Seeger and Messiaen. Five additional CDs include works by Del Tredici, Rands, Adolphe, Kim, and Carter. She also has recordings on Bridge Records, Unicorn-Kanchana and Virgin Classics with music of Goehr, Knussen and Schoenberg. Shelton made her BBC Proms debut in Dallapiccola's Il Prigioniero and her Vienna and Berlin debuts singing Kurtag's The Sayings of Peter Bornemissza with Andras Schiff. Among notable conductors with whom Shelton has worked are Barenboim, Boulez, De Leeuw, Knussen, Lyndon-Gee, Metzmacher, Nott, Etvs, Rattle, Rilling, Rostropovich, Salonen, Slatkin, and Wolff. A native Californian, she began her musical training early with the study of both piano and flute. After graduating from Pomona College she pursued singing at the New England Conservatory and at the Aspen Music School where she studied with Jan de Gaetani. She has taught at the Cleveland Institute of Music, the New England Conservatory and the Eastman School of Music. She is currently on the faculty of the Tanglewood Music Center and coaches privately at her studio in New York City. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close