Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Projects & Initiatives Amatrice in Focus Amatrice in Focus Earthquakes and Photography—Recording the Past, Planning the Future Description A powerful earthquake in August 2016 was a human tragedy that also dramatically changed the face of the town of Amatrice in Central Italy. The town is now deserted. What remains of the variety and richness of its cultural heritage? The aim of this online digital exhibition, hosted by the Bibliotheca Hertziana – Max Planck Institute for Art History, is to find relationships between historical photographs and pictures taken after the earthquake. It recognizes the role of photography in post-catastrophic contexts not only as a record of what disappeared, but also as an indispensable tool for reconstruction. SEE RECENT PRESS HERE This research project began a few months after the earthquake, with a workshop hosted by the Bibliotheca Hertziana in autumn 2016. The idea of channeling the results into a digital exhibition took shape within the International Observatory for Cultural Heritage at the Italian Academy, during the Fellowship of Francesco Gangemi. It testifies to the extraordinary efforts of Gangemi, Rossana Torlontano, and Valentina Valerio to share what they learned during their research on Amatrice’s cultural heritage and on cultural heritage conservation for earthquake-risk zones more generally. Researchers Francesco Gangemi is an art historian and a former researcher at the Kunsthistorisches Institut Florenz – Max-Planck-Institut and at the Bibliotheca Hertziana; he was a Fellow at the Italian Academy in 2017. Rossana Torlantano teaches History of Modern Art at the Università “G. D’Annunzio” in Chieti–Pescara. Valentina Valerio is an art historian at the Sovrintendenza Capitolina ai Beni Culturali di Roma. View the complete digital exhibition In English: https://galerie.biblhertz.it/en/amatrice In Italian: https://galerie.biblhertz.it/it/amatrice In German: https://galerie.biblhertz.it/amatrice The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close