Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Fellowships Fellowship Program Fellowship Program 2021–22 and 2022–23 Many fellowships had to be cancelled or postponed in Fall 2020 and Spring 2021, so the Academy has re-distributed them into the 2021–22 and the 2022–23 academic years. The Fellowship competition is suspended until further notice. Residential research opportunities offered by the Academy The Weinberg Fellowships on architectural history and preservation, designed in conjunction with the Academy’s International Observatory for Cultural Heritage The Bodini Fellowship on developmental and adolescent psychiatry The Burke Fellowship on common challenges faced by Italy and Japan in the conservation and preservation of cultural heritage The Humanities & Neuroscience Fellowships The Premio New York program designed for young Italian artists (currently suspended due to Covid-19) Frequently asked questions What are the residency periods? Fellows spend four months: either the Fall term (September-December) or the Spring term (January-April). Some scholars are invited to spend the full academic year (September to April). What are the stipend and benefits? We offer A) a gross salary ranging from $5,000 up to $8,000/month (you may pay tax on this; you must consult your accountant for advice); B) a travel allowance to cover the airfare to & from New York; C) a portion of health-insurance costs. I am a scientist; will I collaborate with Columbia laboratories &/or scientists? A candidate in the sciences should contact a laboratory director at Columbia, to gauge his/her interest, before applying to the Academy. Such candidates should note (in the application proposal) that they have a pledged collaboration. What is the word limit for the proposal? The Project Proposal should not exceed 1300 words (excluding references). What if I’m just getting my Ph.D. degree? The degree must be awarded before August for Fall term Fellows, and before December for Spring Fellows. Do you give us housing, or pay our rent? No, but we assist our fellows in applying for Columbia Housing. (Note that the University does not guarantee spaces for every Fellow.) Do you accept projects and CVs in Italian? No; English is required. Do you accept reference letters in Italian? Yes, reference letters may be in English or in Italian. What is the deadline for reference letters? The deadline is the end of December. How are candidates assessed? The selection of Fellows will be based on the quality of the applications. These will be reviewed by a jury appointed by the Director and the Advisory Board of the Academy, which is composed of dozens of senior scholars in many fields at Columbia and other leading universities. What qualifications must I have? Normally Fellowships will be open to advanced scholars from the post-doctoral to the full professorial level. (Candidates should expect to have their doctorates in hand no later than the summer after they apply.) How long do Fellows stay? Fellows will be expected to be in residence for one or two academic semesters. At the Academy, Fellows find a place where they can work, interact amongst themselves and with members of the Columbia community, and generally remain free from outside obligations. For periods of either one or two academic semesters, the Academy provides office space and some support. Would I be in the Academy building daily? Fellows are expected to be in residence for the duration of their stay at the Academy, although connections with other institutions of higher learning will be encouraged. Absences for more than two days at a time should be requested from the Director. Fellows may not hold concurrent fellowships and are expected to dedicate their time to research while in residence. Any resulting publications should acknowledge the support of the Academy, as should any biographical notes published in connection with the Fellow's appearances while in residence. Can I apply again after having been a Fellow before? Former Fellows may re-apply no earlier than four years after the completion of their residencies. I won a Fellowship but I wish to delay to another semester/year – may I? Given the large number of eminently qualified candidates for the Italian Academy Fellowships every year, candidates selected in any one year will not be allowed to postpone their offer of a Fellowship to another year. If the Fellowship is not taken up in the term of the year in which it is offered it will be forfeited – although candidates who turned down an offer of a Fellowship in one year may of course apply for the Fellowship in another year. No guarantee of success, however, can be offered in such cases. Again, former Fellows may re-apply no earlier than four years after the completion of their residency. The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close