Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Premio Napoli World Literature Prize awarded to poet John Ashbery Events Past Event Premio Napoli World Literature Prize awarded to poet John Ashbery Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo December 10, 2009 - December 10, 2001 5:30 PM - 7:30 PM With a talk by Charles Simic Two of America's finest and most widely-acclaimed poets will make a rare joint appearance to celebrate this prestigious international prize at Columbia University’s Italian Academy. Poet John Ashbery is the winner of the Special “Premio Napoli” 2009 Prize for World Literature; poet Charles Simic is the winner of the “Premio Napoli” Prize for WorldLiterature, for the book “Club Midnight.” The Premio Napoli Foundation, based in and sponsored by the city of Naples, Italy, organizes conferences, cultural events, and discussion groups on topics of international interest, and produces several publications. Each year a jury of about 14 prominent writers and editors chooses the books that qualify for consideration for the €5,000 prizes in two main categories, Italian and World literature. The books are then distributed to more than 170 "reading committees" around the world, totaling about 1,600 people. Each casts a vote for the best book of the year in each category. Past winners include Nobel laureate novelist Orhan Pamuk, Ryszard Kapuscinski, Abraham B. Yehoshua, Aharon Appelfeld, Sandra Cisneros. Speakers: Silvio Perrella, (President, Premio Napoli Foundation); Nelson Moe (Columbia University and Barnard College); Barbara Faedda (Italian Academy); Anthony Tamburri (Calandra Institute). John Ashbery was born in Rochester, New York, in 1927 and earned degrees from Harvard and Columbia. He has published more than twenty collections and has won the three major American prizes --the Pulitzer, the National Book Award, and the National Book Critics Circle Award. He has received two Guggenheim Fellowships and was a MacArthur Fellow from 1985 to 1990. He has served as executive editor of ARTnews and as the art critic for New York magazine and Newsweek. Charles Simic, the USA’s 15th poet laureate, is an emeritus professor of creative writing and literature at the University of New Hampshire. Born in Yugoslavia in 1938, Mr. Simic immigrated to the United States in 1954. A translator, essayist, and memoirist as well as a poet, he counts a Pulitzer Prize and a MacArthur Fellowship among his many awards. Sponsored by the Fondazione Premio Napoli, The Italian Academy of Columbia University, and the John D. Calandra Italian American Institute. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close