Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Magdalena Baczewska, piano Events Past Event Magdalena Baczewska, piano Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 18, 2015 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM A recital of works by Bach, Cavazzoni, Clementi, Frescobaldi, Gabrieli, Scarlatti, and a world premiere by Jonathan Dawe Program: Cavazzoni: Plus ne regres Clementi: Sonata in G Minor, Op. 7 No. 3 Gabrieli: Fuga del nono tono Jonathan Dawe: Il mondo in miniatura (world premiere) Frescobaldi: Bergamasca (from Fiori Musicali) A selection of sonatas by D. Scarlatti Bach/Busoni: Chaconne Pianist and harpsichordist Magdalena Baczewska has been praised for her “world-class playing” by the American Record Guide. Combining profound musicianship with a passion for educating, she is increasingly known for her innovative recital programming ideas and making her audiences think. "Baczewska enlightens," writes the Palm Beach Arts Paper. Her performances, hailed as “eloquent and technically flawless” (Washington Post), have been broadcast on radio stations across America, including WQXR, NPR, Voice of America, and on European Radio and Television. Last season’s highlights include a performance of Tan Dun’s Banquet Concerto in Beijing’s National Center for Performing Arts with the China National Symphony conducted by Tan Dun, and a European/US tour of Bach’s Goldberg Variations, performed on the piano and the harpsichord. Baczewska is a full-time faculty member and Director of the Music Performance Program at Columbia University. She has taught at the Mannes College New School for Music, John J. Cali School of Music, Montclair State University, and Manhattan School of Music, International Keyboard Institute, and the New York Piano Festival. She has conducted piano master classes using Yamaha Disklavier and the Remote Lesson technology. She recently taught a first-of-its-kind master class, connecting three Disklaviers in three cities across the United Stated. She has also taught Remote Lessons at Philadelphia's Microsoft School of the Future. She has appeared as a guest teaching artist in Universities across the US, as well as the Central Conservatory in Beijing, China. Baczewska is a laureate of international piano competitions, including the International Chopin Competition at the Kosciuszko Foundation, the Mieczyslaw Munz Competition, and the Dorothy MacKenzie Recognition Award, Prix du piano at the École Américaine in Fountainebleau, France. She is a recipient of the Outstanding Achievement Award from the Polish Minister of Culture Bogdan Zdrojewski, and a laureate of the Award for Outstanding Polish Citizen Abroad. Baczewska's album, A Tribute to Glenn Gould was hailed by the American Record Guide as “an uncommonly good recording,” and the Gramophone described it as “beautiful and intimately scaled.” Her three-album project, Music for Dreams, was released in collaboration with BlueSleep®, a medical team specialized in research and treatment of sleep disorders. Magdalena continues to create music for health and wellness as Artistic Director at BlueSleep® Music. She holds a Doctor of Musical Arts degree from the Manhattan School of Music (having studied with Constance Keene), and a Bachelor and Master’s Degree from the Mannes College of Music, New School University (in the studio of Jerome Rose). Her doctoral dissertation, In Search for Bach's Cantabile: The Role and Aspects of Oratory and Singing in Keyboard Interpretation, was published by LAP Lambert Academic Publishing. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close