Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Alex Lipowski, percussion Events Past Event Alex Lipowski, percussion Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo December 2, 2009 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM The Fall 2009 concert series at Columbia University’s Italian Academy for Advanced Studies will present three recitals by leading proponents of contemporary music. December 2, Talea Ensemble, Alex Lipowski, percussion With Steve Beck, piano Philippe Hurel: Tombeau in Memoriam G. Grisey Pierluigi Billone: Mani.Mono Luca Francesconi: Mambo Brian Ferneyhough: Bone Alphabet Gianluca Verlingieri: (New work) *premiere An advocate of contemporary music, percussionist Alex Lipowski has performed in ensembles such as the Second Instrumental Unit, Aspen Contemporary Ensemble, Wet Ink Ensemble, Janus Trio, Argento Ensemble, is a co-director of the Talea Ensemble, and the newest member of the Timetable Percussion Trio. He has been seen on concert stages throughout North America, South America, Europe and Asia. As a soloist and chamber musician he has premiered works by Denisov, Zorn, Malpica, and Lunsqui. Other recent collaborations include working with the Columbia Composers Ensemble and the Latin American composers group, altaVoz. While on tour with the East Coast Composers Ensemble in 2007, Lipowski presented guest lectures at the University of Virginia Commonwealth and a lecture on the music of Georges Aperghis at Denver State College. In the past, Lipowski has served as the director of the Juilliard Pierrot Ensemble and Duo Maintenant with whom he commissioned works extensively for french horn and percussion. In 2006, he was featured with the Aspen Contemporary Ensemble on NPR's Performance Today. During the summer of 2007 he toured with Pierre Boulez through Europe and then to Japan performing Boulez's work, sur Incises. During the same summer he served as Artist-Faculty at the Great Mountains Music Festival in South Korea. He has recorded works by Alexandre Lunsqui with the Argento Ensemble and can be heard on the Living Artists Label with the Talea Ensemble. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close