Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home About the Academy About the Academy · Advanced research across the disciplines · Fellowship Program with 20+ residential scholars each year · Public conferences on urgent academic, cultural, and scientific topics. The Italian Academy is a premier global center for research in the humanities and sciences, founded in 1991 on the basis of an agreement between Columbia University and the Republic of Italy. Its chief commitment is to promote groundbreaking cross-disciplinary work while addressing international social issues. Fellowship program As the core of the Academy’s work, the Fellowship Program invites scholars to dedicate one or two semesters to research. Each group has a balance of postdoctoral researchers, mid-career scholars, and full professors; they are chosen by a jury of experts in the relevant fields. Other initiatives • The Arts, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project has for over 20 years hosted resident scientists and regularly presented conferences on cutting-edge research. • The International Observatory for Cultural Heritage is dedicated to all issues relating to thesurvival, protection, and conservation of cultural heritage; the Observatory is the home of the Weinberg Fellowships project as well as other research initiatives and symposia. • The NOMIS Project on Migrations and Mobility explores the transition from foraging to farming. • Since 2006, the Alexander Bodini Foundation has offered Fellowships in adolescent psychiatry and supported occasional year-long initiatives in the social sciences. • Cultural programs include a concert series bringing world-class Italian music to New York; the Premio New York, a prize for emerging Italian artists; and public art exhibitions throughout the year. Hosted in the Academy building The Columbia University Seminar in Modern Italian Studies holds regular meetings in the Academy's Conference Room to address political, social, cultural, and religious aspects of Italian life from 1815 to the present. The Center for the Ancient Mediterranean at Columbia University, too, welcomes the public for regular talks in the Conference Room as part of its mission to link together all the faculty, students and numerous departments that have an interest in the cultures of the ancient Mediterranean and adjoining areas. The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close