Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Emergent Nanoscience Events Past Event Emergent Nanoscience Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo December 4, 2008 - December 5, 2008 2:00 PM - 6:00 PM Organized by Vittorio Pellegrini (Italian Academy Fellow; INFM-CNR NEST) and James Yardley (Columbia University) The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America at Columbia University in collaboration with the Nanoscale Science and Engineering Center (NSEC) at Columbia University and the Italian National Research Council, will host a symposium on Emergent Nanoscience. This symposium will address topics in nanoscience and nanotechnology at the frontiers of research, with particular emphasis on research being done in Italy and at Columbia University. The presentations will introduce new phenomena and materials including carbon nanostructures and graphene, nanocrystals, quantum dots, molecular magnets, and biomolecules. The program will also cover advanced theoretical and experimental approaches to exploring matter at the nanoscale. The innovative research presented at the symposium serves as the foundation for a new era in nanoelectronics that will have a profound impact on our daily life. The speakers are prominent scientists conducting ground-breaking research in the fields of nanoscience and nanotechnology, promising lively and provocative discussion on the latest discoveries in these areas. Co-sponsored by The Columbia University Nanocenter Istituto Nazionale per la Fisica della Materia Speakers Fabio Beltram (Scuola Normale Superiore, Pisa) Renato Bozio (Università di Padova) Louis Brus (Columbia U.) Julio Fernandez (Columbia U.) Tony Heinz (Columbia U.) Jim Hone (Columbia U.) Liberato Manna (Università di Lecce) Paolo Milani (Università di Milano) Andrew Millis (Columbia U.) Elisa Molinari (Università di Modena) Alberto Morgante (Università di Trieste) Colin Nuckolls (Columbia U.) Aron Pinczuk (Columbia U.) Myriam Sarachik (CUNY) Sandro Scandolo (ICTP – Trieste) Roberta Sessoli (Università di Firenze) Sandro De Silvestri (Politecnico di Milano) Erio Tosatti (SISSA – Trieste) Latha Venkataraman (Columbia U.) Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close