Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Mathematical Creations and Recreations Featuring Nobel laureates Sheldon Glashow, Daniel Kahneman, and John Nash, as well as Claudio Bartocci, Brian Greene, Harold Kuhn, Benoît Mandelbrot, and Piergiorgio Odifreddi Events Past Event Mathematical Creations and Recreations Featuring Nobel laureates Sheldon Glashow, Daniel Kahneman, and John Nash, as well as Claudio Bartocci, Brian Greene, Harold Kuhn, Benoît Mandelbrot, and Piergiorgio Odifreddi Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo tic tac toe March 10, 2009 - March 11, 2009 11:00 AM - 6:00 PM And, at the Italian Cultural Institute: Thomas Banchoff, Claudio Bartocci, Piergiorgio Odifreddi, and Achille Varzi Organized and presented by the Festival della Matematica, Rome (Musica per Roma Fondazione) Tuesday, March 10th 11 a.m. at the Italian Academy The unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics, Lecture by the Nobel Laureate in Physics Sheldon Glashow 2.00 p.m. at the Italian Academy The (mis)behaviour of financial markets, Lecture by Benoît Mandelbrot 5.00 p.m. at the Italian Cultural Institute Press conference 6.00 p.m. at the Italian Cultural Institute Imaginary interview with Galileo Galilei, Reading by Claudio Bartocciand Piergiorgio Odifreddi Wednesday, March 11th 9.00 a.m. at the Italian Academy Statistical thinking is hard, causal thinking is easy, Lecture by the Nobel Laureate for Economics Daniel Kahneman 11.00 a.m. at the Italian Academy The early days of game theory in Princeton, Lecture-interview with the Nobel Laureate for Economics John Nash and Harold Kuhn (coordinated by Piergiorgio Odifreddi) 2.00 p.m. at the Italian Academy The elegant mathematical universe, Lecture-interview with Brian Greene (coordinated by Piergiorgio Odifreddi) 6.00 p.m. at the Italian Cultural Institute Movie projection Flatland. A journey of many dimensions: The movie editio Director Jeffrey Travis, animator Dano Johnson Edwin A. Abbott with Thomas Banchoff and the Filmmakers of Flatland 8 NOBEL LAUREATES and 3 FIELDS MEDAL HOLDERS Rome caput mundi mathematicae, but since mathematics is transnational, this year the festival is also taking place across the Atlantic. The first session of the 2009 Festival is being held in New York, at Columbia University's Italian Academy for Advanced Studies and at the Italian Cultural Institute. They will host, among others, the Nobel Prize winners for economics Daniel Kahneman and John Nash, the Nobel Prize winner for physics Sheldon Glashow, the renowned string theorist Brian Greene, the esteemed professor of philosophy Achille Varzi, and the great mathematicians Benoît Mandelbrot, Harold Kuhn, Thomas Banchoff, and Claudio Bartocci, who will tell us how to save the world with numbers. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close