Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Nick Danziger: Revisited, 2005, 2010, 2015 Events Past Event Nick Danziger: Revisited, 2005, 2010, 2015 Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Image Carousel with 6 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Photograph by Nick Danziger Slide 2: Photograph by Nick Danziger Slide 3: Photograph by Nick Danziger Slide 4: Photograph by Nick Danziger Slide 5: Photograph by Nick Danziger Slide 6: Photograph by Nick Danziger Previous Next September 15, 2015 - October 15, 2015 9:30 AM - 4:30 PM Across eight countries on four continents, Nick Danziger returns to the people he photographed ten years ago to see how the UN’s Millennium Development Goals are transforming their lives. © Nick Danziger / Contact Press Images. With accompanying captions by Rory MacLean Organized and curated by Neil Burgess Italian Academy gallery hours: Final week: Tues and Wed., Oct. 13, 14: 9:00 am - 7:00 pm; Thurs., Oct. 15: 9:00 am-4:30 pm SIPA gallery hours: 9:00 am - 7:00 pm (4th floor) In 2005, the photographer  Nick Danziger was commissioned by the international development and advocacy organization World Vision to create an archive of photographs documenting the lives of women and children in eight countries around the world. Nick returned five years later – and then again in 2015 with author Rory MacLean – to assemble an extraordinary, stark portrait of life on the edge, and of our 21st century family of man. Had the Millennium Development Goals succeeded in giving the families a better life? Did their sons no longer go to bed hungry? Are their daughters now able to go to school? Or did the UN's grand intentions end up as nothing more than another futile, feel-good publicity exercise to ease the consciences of national leaders? The purpose of the photographic essay is to show what has or has not changed in the lives of individuals and families across the world. For 10 years, across 8 countries on 4 continents, Danziger worked among individuals and families living in both rural and urban areas; hamlets, villages, border towns and city slums. Many were initially suspicious about being photographed. Yet, as the project progressed, they allowed themselves to be photographed and revealed aspects of their lives to Danziger and MacLean that they hadn’t even revealed to their own children, because they wanted their stories to be known. Read more on Nick Danziger below: Photography: www.nickdanziger.com Advocacy: www.mdgadvocacy.com Co-sponsored by Columbia's: Harriman Institute, School of International and Public Affairs, Institute of Latin American Studies and Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, World Vision, Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation, Oak Foundation, The Waterloo Foundation, The Guardian, American Friends of Woodward Foundation Ethiopia Inc, and the A. E. Reimann Foundation Press Guardian article on Danziger, Sept. 27, 2015 http://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2015/sep/27/nick-danziger-... With Danziger in Niger —The Guardian With Danziger in Uganda —BBC Radio 4 “A hallmark of his work as a photographer, bestselling writer and television documentary-maker has long been his willingness to abandon the traditional journalist’s armour of impartial reporting, seeing both sides. Instead, he makes a point of giving a voice to those who otherwise have none.” —The Telegraph Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close