Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Talea Ensemble Events Past Event Talea Ensemble Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 30, 2017 7:30 PM - 9:30 PM FACE for voice and ensemble by Pierluigi Billone (2016, U.S. premiere) Anna Clare Hauf, soprano James Baker, conductor "Face has a double meaning: light/star in Old Italian, and its typical English meaning. Both expressions 'Voice and ensemble' and 'Voice' must be clarified. The Voice – in a general sense – appears in all parts in different ways and according to a particular hierarchy. It deals with a main vocal part(the female voice) with two vocal satellites (Flute, special performer). The solo voice has a rich, free and visionary part, with traces and accents of a pseudo old 'Greece tragic voice', a wide spectrum of spoken and sung moments, only inner vibrations, or instrumental like vibrations. The voice reaches its central moment of development by using only 'vocal acts': actions and gestures consisting of elemental body/voice acts of presence like 'belly – impulses', 'throat violent noises and vibrations' and so on." — P. Billone Born in 1960 in Italy, Pierluigi Billone lives in Vienna.  He studied composition with Salvatore Sciarrino and Helmut Lachenmann. Billone’s music has been performed by relevant interpreters in festivals such as Wien Modern, Festival d’Automne Paris, Donaueschinger Musiktagen, Wittener Tagen für neue Kammermusik, Eclat-Stuttgart, Ultraschall-Berlin, Musica Viva München, TFNM Zürich, Ars Musica Bruxelles, Huddersfield NMF, World Music Days Wroclaw, Biennale Zagreb, Boston, New York, Monday Ev. Concerts Los Angeles, Bendigo Festival Sidney. His works received international awards such as the Kompositionspreis der Stadt Stuttgart (Stuttgart 1993), the Busoni-Kompositionspreis (Academy of Arts Berlin 1996) the Wiener Internationaler Kompositionspreis (Vienna 2004), the Ernst-Krenek-Preis (Vienna 2006), and the Kompositionspreis der Ernst-von-Siemens-Musikstiftung (Munich 2010). From 2006 to 2008 Billone has been guest professor for composition at the Music University Graz, in 2009 at the Music University of Frankfurt, and from 2010 until 2012 at the Music University Graz. www.taleaensemble.org Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close