Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Summer Online Festival continues with filmmaker Roberto Minervini Events Past Event Summer Online Festival continues with filmmaker Roberto Minervini Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo August 18, 2020 12:00 PM - 2:00 PM The director is interviewed by Italian Academy Fellow and New Yorker writer Rich Benjamin The Italian Academy’s Summer Online Festival will present three of Minervini’s feature films in the coming days: What You Gonna Do When the World’s on Fire? (2018), The Other Side (2015), and Low Tide (2012). Here at the start, the director talks with Rich Benjamin about his films, all set in the U.S. South, and the issues they raise about race and class in 21st-century America. Born in Fermo, Italy, in 1970, Roberto Minervini obtained a degree in Economics and Commerce at the University of Ancona and a doctorate in History of Cinema at the University of Madrid. He moved to the United States in October 2000 to work as an IT consultant. In 2004, he completed a master’s degree in media studies at the New School. From 2006 to 2007, he taught at De La Salle University in Manila, Philippines. Minervini began writing, directing, and producing films shortly after completing his master’s degree at the New School. Prior to producing full-length feature films, he made a number of shorts, including Voodoo Doll, Come to Daddy, Notes, and The Fireflies. 2011’s The Passage was a nominee for the Golden Zenith at the Montréal World Film Festival. Low Tide, his 2012 film, showed at the Venice Film Festival, winning the Christopher D. Smithers Foundation Special Award and garnering a nomination for the Venice Horizons Award. His film Stop the Pounding Heart was included in the Official Selection of the 2013 Cannes Film Festival and has won numerous awards at other festivals, including the David di Donatello Award for Best Documentary. The Other Side was shown in the Un Certain Regard section of the 2015 Cannes Film Festival 2015. At the 2018 Venice Film Festival, What You Gonna Do When the World’s on Fire? was nominated for the Golden Lion award and won the Premio Vivere da Sportivi Award, the Fair Play Cinema Award, and the UNICEF Award. Italian Academy Fellow (2020–21) Rich Benjamin is an American cultural critic, anthropologist, and author. He is perhaps best known for the non-fiction book Searching for Whitopia: An Improbable Journey to the Heart of White America. Benjamin’s investigation of Whitopia was the subject of a TED Talk seen by more than 2.7 million people. He is also a lecturer and a public intellectual, who regularly discusses issues on NPR, PBS, CNN and MSNBC. His writing frequently appears in The New York Times, The New Yorker, The Guardian, and The Los Angeles Times. Benjamin’s work focuses on United States politics and culture, comparative world politics, money, class, Whites, Latinos, public policy, global cultural transformation, and demographic change. He was formerly a Senior Fellow and Director of the Fellows Program at the think tank Demos. See all festival presentations here. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close