Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events The Future of Integration in Europe and Beyond Events Past Event The Future of Integration in Europe and Beyond Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo September 15, 2016 1:00 PM - 6:15 PM Video here. Brexit rocked global markets, prompted British Prime Minister David Cameron’s hasty resignation, and cast serious doubts about the European Union’s stability. And still the greatest economic and political consequences of the UK’s referendum to leave the EU remain unknown. Columbia Law School in association with the Italian Academy will host this conference featuring foreign diplomats, leading scholars, and noted foreign policy practitioners examining the continent’s integration prospects in light of, but not limited to, the UK referendum. Panelists will address such issues as European integration post-Brexit, the political challenges of economic integration, and the impact disintegration could have on global business. Full schedule here. Speakers: John Authers (TBC), Senior Investment Commentator, Financial Times Armando Varricchio, Ambassador, Italian Embassy to the United States Sir John Vickers, Professor, Oxford University Joseph Weiler, Professor, NYU Law School Paul Craig, Professor, Oxford University Mark Leonard, Director, European Council on Foreign Relations Andrew Moravcsik, Professor, Princeton University Constanze Stelzenmüller, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Christopher Bates, Partner, Clifford Chance (London) Leonard Ng, Partner, Sidley (London) Kristen Silverberg, Managing Director, Institute of International Finance, and former US Ambassador to the European Union The registration is now closed. Please join us, even if you cannot register. Walk-ins will be accommodated as we gauge seat availability. RSVP: General Public: RSVP link here. The conference is free and open to the public, but registration is recommended. Media must RSVP to [email protected] no later than noon on Sept. 9. An earlier response is appreciated. Press credentials will be required. Media Contact: Public Affairs, 212-854-2650; [email protected] Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close