Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Food security, globalization and sustainability Events Past Event Food security, globalization and sustainability Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo September 25, 2015 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM The legacy of Expo 2015 Minister Maurizio Martina; Prof. Glenn Denning; and Hon. Livia Pomodoro, speakers; with Dr. Barbara Faedda. The right to food and the problems of food security (including geopolitical factors around food production and the linked issues of energy consumption and environmental challenges) will be discussed as part of an institutional mission at the U.N.’s Headquarters in New York. Speakers: Maurizio Martina Italian Minister of Agricultural, Food, and Forestry Policies; Government Coordinator for Expo Milano 2015 with Glenn Denning Professor of Professional Practice, School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) & Senior Policy Advisor, Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN), Earth Institute, Columbia University and Livia Pomodoro President of the Milan Center for Food Law and Policy; formerly Magistrate, Supreme Court of Cassation of Italy, and President of the Juvenile Court of Milan. Welcoming remarks by Barbara Faedda, Associate Director, The Italian Academy Co-sponsored by the European Institute (Columbia University), the Italian Cultural Institute of New York, and the Center for American Studies (Rome) The Post-2015 U.N. Sustainable Development Goals will shape the next decade of policies regarding poverty alleviation, education, health, gender equality and women’s empowerment, environmental sustainability, and development. In this context, agriculture is fundamental. As the primary sector of the economy, it is a national security matter for many countries that are concerned with food security, safety, and health. But agriculture also involves economic growth as a whole, increasing incomes, encouraging investment, and mobilizing scientific, technological, and social movements. Improving agricultural policies and promoting sustainable agricultural development is also a key challenge for restoring the ecological balance of our planet. It’s crucial to support agriculture in becoming more resilient and to stop the consumption of land for non-agricultural purposes. One strong call for action comes from the current universal exposition hosted in Italy—Expo Milano 2015, “Feeding the Planet, Energy for Life”—which brings together more than 130 countries, 3 international organizations, and many civil society organizations and private companies, as well as millions of visitors from all over the world. With the “Milan Charter,” the Expo is acting to create a legacy for all the stakeholders in the fight for food security: governments, institutions, international organizations, business, civil society, and citizens. The document also focuses on the right to food and supports the adoption and implementation of the post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals. The Milan Charter will be formally delivered to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, on October 16, on the occasion of World Food Day (to be celebrated this year in Milan). Press “As the primary sector of the economy, [agriculture] is a national security matter.” —i-ITALY Read more: Original Web Page Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close