Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Concert Series: The Grand Tour Orchestra Events Past Event Concert Series: The Grand Tour Orchestra Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 1, 2008 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM Haydn and Jommelli; with Christine Brandes, soprano, Stephanie Houtzeel, mezzo-soprano. The Fall 2008 concert series at Columbia University's Italian Academy will present three concerts by the period-instrument ensemble The Grand Tour Orchestra led by flutist Charles Brink. The Grand Tour Orchestra was founded in 2006 in New York. The New York Times wrote of the Orchestra's first season at the Italian Academy that year that the musicians were “willing and energetic, playing with an involved enthusiasm.” The Orchestra specializes in music of the late 18th century. The players who form the nucleus of The Grand Tour Orchestra are highly regarded in both the modern and period-instrument scenes and can be heard around the US: concertmaster Claire Jolivet, Andrea Schultz, Theresa Salomon, Amelia Roosevelt, Marika Holmqvist and Owen Dalby, violin; Jessica Troy and Alissa Smith, viola; Loretta O'Sullivan and Lindy Clarke, 'cello; John Feeney, bass; Gonzalo Ruiz and Sarah Davol, oboe; RJ Kelly and Alexandra Cook, horn. Music Director Charles Brink has specialized in18th-century music since 1997. He has played, toured and recorded with many ensembles in Europe and the United States - The Amsterdam Baroque Orchestra, his own Bouts Ensemble, The Four Nations Ensemble, Ensemble Rebel, the New York Collegium and the Hannoverische Hofkapelle to name but a few. His flute playing has been critically acclaimed in The New York Times, the Mainzer Zeitung, and the Hessischer Zeitung among others. Mr. Brink has recorded for the EMI, Raumklang, ASV labels as well as German and Dutch Radio and Television. Mr. Brink also served as co-music director in the 2004 Opera da camera Linz production of Handel's Ariodante. His research into and love for the music of the pre-classical and classical periods led him to found the Grand Tour Orchestra. Wednesday, October 1, 2008 at 8 p.m. Franz Joseph Haydn (1732-1809): Symphony in F minor, H1/49 (La Passione) Niccolo Jommelli (1714-1774): Miserere (PietÃ , pietÃ signore) for 2 sopranos and strings (North American premiere) with Christine Brandes, soprano, Stephanie Houtzeel, mezzo-soprano The Grand Tour's opening concert features the North American premiere of Niccolo Jommelli's Miserere. This imposing work for two sopranos and strings was written months before the composer's death in 1774 for the incomparable singers Anna de Amicis and Giuseppe Aprile. The work posthumously achieved as much fame as any of his beloved operas and was performed well into the 19th century. Also on the program is Haydn'searly masterpiece; the dark, emotionally charged Symphony in F-minor(Hob 1/49, La Passione). Soprano Christine Brandes has made a stellar career in Europe and the United States appearing on both the opera and concert stage. She has received the highest praise for her interpretations of Bach, Handel, Rameau, Haydn, and Mozart. Mezzo-soprano Stephanie Houtzeel specializes in the trouser-roles of Strauss, Mozart and baroque composers. She has been heard in the opera houses of Zurich, Lisbon, Graz, Antwerp, the Bastille and Lyon (December 2008) and in the major concert halls and festivals of Europe. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close