Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Carlo Ginzburg: "Piero's 'Flagellation' as a Case Study" Events Past Event Carlo Ginzburg: "Piero's 'Flagellation' as a Case Study" Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Piero della Francesca The Flagellation Slide 2: Carlo Ginzburg walking Previous Next March 31, 2022 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Online Webinar link Carlo Ginzburg, Italian Academy Fellow 2022–23, will present two online lectures this spring; this first one (on March 31) is titled “Piero’s ‘Flagellation’ as a Case Study.” To what extent can connoisseurship identify the date of an artifact? The implications of this question will be explored through an analysis of the debate over the date of Piero della Francesca’s “Flagellation of Christ.” This case study will pave the way to a reflection on how eminent connoisseurs like Giovanni Morelli and Bernard Berenson approached the relationship between morphology and chronology. (Welcoming remarks and moderation by Academy Director David Freedberg) About the second lecture: “Texts, Images, Reproductions: On the Shoulders of Walter Benjamin” (April 14) About the speaker: Carlo Ginzburg has taught at the University of Bologna, at UCLA, and at the Scuola Normale of Pisa. His books, translated into more than twenty languages, include The Night Battles; The Cheese and the Worms; Clues, Myths, and the Historical Method; The Enigma of Piero della Francesca; History, Rhetoric, and Proof; The Judge and the Historian; Wooden Eyes; No Island is an Island; Threads and Traces; Fear Reverence Terror: Five Essays in Political Iconography; and Nondimanco. Machiavelli, Pascal. He received the Aby Warburg Prize (1992), the Humboldt-Forschungs Prize (2007), and the Balzan Prize for the History of Europe, 1400-1700 (2010). Images: “Flagellation of Christ” by Piero della Francesca, c. 1460. Portrait of Carlo Ginzburg by Danilo De Marco Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close