Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Summer Online Festival continues with Anna Grimshaw Events Past Event Summer Online Festival continues with Anna Grimshaw Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo August 22, 2020 12:00 PM - 2:00 PM “At Low Tide” The special-access period has expired. Anna Grimshaw's At Low Tide (2016) follows clamdiggers in coastal Maine who set out daily at low tide. Their work has an unusual beauty that emanates from the ebb and flow of the tide, and shifts of light and wind. The hour-long film explores the choreography of digging and offers an unusual perspective on an aspect of contemporary American working culture. Anna Grimshaw Professor, Emory University Anna Grimshaw was trained as an anthropologist at the University of Cambridge. She carried out her doctoral research with communities of Buddhist nuns in the Himalayas. For almost a decade, she worked as a public scholar outside the academy. Most notably, she served as assistant and editor to the Caribbean writer and historian C.L.R. James. Following James's death in 1989, Grimshaw returned to academic anthropology. Visual anthropology is now her primary field of inquiry. Anna Grimshaw's books include Servants of the Buddha (1992), a remembered ethnography about her fieldwork with Buddhist nuns in Ladakh, and The Ethnographer's Eye: Ways of Seeing in Modern Anthropology (2001), which charts the shifting relationship between vision and knowledge in twentieth-century anthropology. Her Observational Cinema: Anthropology, Film and the Exploration of Social Life (coauthored with Amanda Ravetz) was published in 2009 (Indiana University Press). In 2013, Anna completed a series of films, Mr Coperthwaite: a life in the Maine Woods. The four films (Spring in Dickinson's Reach, A Summer Task, Autumn's Work and Winter Days) explore the "handmade life" of Bill Coperthwaite. A meditation on time and process, Mr Coperthwaite offers an intimate portrait of a remarkable life -- one shaped by nature, work, poetry and the rhythm of changing seasons. The films are distributed by Berkeley Media. Anna Grimshaw teaches courses in ethnographic cinema, visual culture, experimental ethnography, and ethnographic filmmaking at Emory University. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close