Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events "Reverie: On the Liberation from Work" Events Past Event "Reverie: On the Liberation from Work" Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Art by Danilo Correale Slide 2: Art by Danilo Correale Previous Next June 17, 2017 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM A new sound work by Danilo Correale Hypnotherapy in preparation for a post-work society Presentation and opening reception In the increasingly urgent context of the global economy and a rapidly evolving workforce landscape, multimedia artist Danilo Correale presents his latest sound work, Reverie: On the Liberation from Work. Reverie further develops Correale’s research on Sleep and Wakefulness in post modernity. In this new iteration of his research, the artist has worked in collaboration with a New York-based psychotherapist and hypnotherapist to create two guided hypnosis recordings that aim to relax the body and mind in preparation for a post-work society. Reverie: On the Liberation from Work, published by Correale and The Decelerationist Reader, is a vinyl record and book featuring excerpts from Avi Alpert, Bob Black, Andre Gorz, Susan Brown, Bertrand Russell, Poppy Dixon and the Center for Experimental Meditation. In this speculative attempt, the artist uses the language of hypnosis to vividly describe a practical solution to empirical but yet potential issues inherent in a system too long stagnant in the old rhetoric of work. In this presentation, the timeless space of the Italian Academy’s library will function as a listening lounge in which the audience will experience the recordings through headphones. The artist will speak briefly about the project at 7:00 pm. About the Artist Danilo Correale’s work has long been focused on the human aspect of financial capitalism. He has participated in numerous group exhibitions, including the 16th Quadrennial of Rome at the Palazzo delle Esposizioni; Pigs, Artium Museum, Spain (2016); Ennesima, Trienniale di Milano (2015); Kiev Biennial (2015); Museion, Bolzano (2015); Per-formare una collezione, Museo Madre, Naples (2014); Steirischer Herbst, Graz (2013); Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo, Turin (2012); Manifesta 8 in Murcia/Cartagena (2010); Moscow Biennial, Moscow (2010); Istanbul Biennial, Istanbul (2009). Recent solo shows include Tales of Exhaustion, La Loge, Brussels (2016); The Missing Hour: Rhythms and Algorithms, Raucci/Santamaria, Naples (2015); The Warp and the Weft, Peep-Hole, Milan (2012); Pareto Optimality, Supportico Lopez, Berlin (2011); Entrée, Bergen (2011). Correale is the founder of The Decelerationist Reader and a regular contributor to publications in the field of critical theory. He recently published The Game: A three sided football match, FeC, Fabriano (2014) and No More Sleep No More, Archive Books, Berlin (2015). Correale lives and works in New York and Naples. Danilo Correale is a winner of the 2017 Premio New York for emerging Italian artists sponsored by The Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Italian Ministry of Cultural Activities and Tourism (MiBACT), the Italian Cultural Institute, and Columbia University’s Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close