Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events The Human Sense of Smell – Seminars in Society and Neuroscience Events Past Event The Human Sense of Smell – Seminars in Society and Neuroscience Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 13, 2017 4:15 PM - 6:15 PM Welcoming Remarks: David Freedberg, Director of the Italian Academy, Columbia University and Pamela H. Smith, Seth Low Professor of History Speaker: Barry C. Smith Director of the Institute of Philosophy, School of Advanced Study, University of London Respondent: Clare Batty Associate Professor of Philosophy, University of Kentucky Speaker: Donald Wilson Professor at the Departments of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Neuroscience and Physiology, NYU School of Medicine Respondent: Avery Gilbert smell scientist, entrepreneur, and author Speaker: Christophe Laudamiel Master Perfumer, Scent Composer, Lecturer, Writer, and Chemist Champion Moderator: Ann-Sophie Barwich Presidential Scholar in Society and Neuroscience, Columbia University There are many myths about the human sense of smell. Most persistent are the views that our olfactory abilities are underdeveloped, declining, and lacking cognitive significance. Nothing could be further from the truth. Historically, the spice trade and the ongoing hunt for new flavors have shaped our modern socio-economic landscape. Today, 28 billion dollars are generated annually with fragrance products in the US alone (ranging from perfumes to scented trash bags). Many of these are deeply entwined with hygiene products responsible for improvements in public health. And over the past thirty years, neuroscientific interest in odor perception has been on a steady rise. Central to this development is the dominant role of smell in cross-modal processes of flavor perception. The crucial question here remains unresolved, however: How does our brain make sense of scents and flavors? To explore the human sense of smell in its perceptual, neural, and cultural dimensions, the panel brings together cross-disciplinary perspectives from neuroscience, philosophy, and perfumery. Sponsors: Presidential Scholars in Society and Neuroscience program as part of the Seminars in Society and Neuroscience series; the Italian Academy for Advanced Studies. Image: The art of perfumery: and the methods of obtaining odours of plants (1857); Piesse, G. W. Septimus. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close