Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Paintings and Videos: “Out of Sync” by Giorgio Brogi Events Past Event Paintings and Videos: “Out of Sync” by Giorgio Brogi Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 23, 2008 - November 20, 2008 5:30 PM - 4:30 PM Curated by Gianni Romano “The Italian painter Giorgio Brogi sets up arresting vibrations between shapes and chromatics. The works are composed of jauntily placed hard-edged forms: bars, rectangles, bands and squares, basic schemes in which lines often veer slightly from the straight . . . The sharp color contrasts and slightly eccentric geometries suggest a sophisticated semaphore system that roundly fulfills its first duty of catching the eye.” – Grace Glueck, The New York Times This exhibition – curated by Gianni Romano – marks the first US showing of a series of works, both digital prints and canvases, inspired by the “Out of Sync” concept which has been at the hub of the artist's activity in recent years. The works displayed in New York are accompanied by a loop using four short films made by four illustrious directors. These shorts, by Pier Paolo Pasolini, Bernardo Bertolucci, Carlo Lizzani, and Jean-Luc Godard, are chosen by Giorgio Brogi to explain – in cinematic language – the correspondence between his vision and the vision of these directors. The video-episodes and Brogi's own video, “Out of Sync,” will be projected at the same time, setting up an interpretative dialogue of exchange and comparison on themes that concern us but fail to touch us, such as indifference, agony, poetry, and love. The “Out of Sync” project is constantly refreshed with new material and the locations it inhabits: it is a play of mirrors, a book, an environmental video show, a video-painting and performance; it concludes with the works presented in New York, and will be presented in other forms and sequences in Milan and Naples in the course of 2009. Giorgio Brogi was born in Tuscany and works there and in Milan, Italy. He studied at the Institute of Art of Florence. Brogi has since collaborated with Massimo Carboni, Raffaele Gavarro, Valeria Bruni, and Lily Wei. He has had two personal exhibitions in New York at Denise Bibro Fine Art, and has recently created site-specific works in Milan, Florence, and Naples with “The Inside Open,” in collaboration with Marco Meneguzzo, Giuliano Serafini, and Eduardo Cicelyn, and installations such as “Crescita” in Camaiore and “My Land” in San Miniato. The “Out of Sync” project developed in Paris with an important one-man show at the Centre d'Art et d'Essais Mercedes Benz, and a book launch at the Maison Rouge, Foundation Antoine de Galbert, followed by the AT Kearney show in Place de Ièna (Paris). In 2007 he had another show called "BaBa" at the Lyon Biennal of Arts. His work is in private collections in America and Europe and in the permanent collection of the Albright - Knox Museum in Buffalo, NY. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close