Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Ensemble Échappé: “The Truth is Curved” Events Past Event Ensemble Échappé: “The Truth is Curved” Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 4, 2020 7:30 PM - 9:30 PM With mezzo-soprano Blythe Gaissert; works by Luciano Berio, Caterina di Cecca, and Tania León In residency this season at the Italian Academy, Ensemble Échappé, New York's “polished, ambitious young sinfonietta” (The New Yorker), is offering two concerts and an opera premiere performed over four evenings in February, March, and April. The Ensemble's 20 virtuoso musicians, led by Artistic Directors Benjamin Grow (conductor) and composer Nina C. Young, are distinguished not only as exceptional instrumentalists, but as visionaries, sculpting the future of music, bound together by a collective desire to explore diverse sonic palettes and fresh new music. March 4 at 7:30 PM: The Truth Is Curved Concert featuring mezzo-soprano Blythe Gaissert Tania León: One Mo’ Time Lembit Beecher: Three Immigrant Songs Caterina di Cecca: La verità ricurva Luciano Berio: Folk Songs Mezzo-soprano Blythe Gaissert has received critical acclaim for her interpretations of both new and traditional repertoire in opera, concert, and chamber repertoire. “Gaissert gave a dramatically powerful, vocally stunning portrait... a virtuoso performance” (Opera News). Known for her warm tone, powerful stage presence, and impeccable musicianship and technical prowess. “Mezzo-soprano Blythe Gaissert was impossible to ignore.... She has a pure, powerful and appealing voice and a forceful stage presence to match” (Denver Post). In 2019 she created the role of Georgia O’Keefe in Today It Rains with San Francisco’s Opera Parallele and American Opera Projects; performed the world premiere of the third opera by the highly acclaimed and record-setting team of As One: Laura Kaminsky, Mark Campbell and Kimberly Reed. She will also be reprising her role as Hannah After in her 6th production of As One with New York City Opera/American Opera Projects, singing Beethoven’s 9th Symphony with both the Buffalo Symphony and Sarasota Orchestra, and performing a workshop performance of Laura Kaminsky’s fourth opera, also with librettist Kimberly Reed, Postville: Hometown to the World, with Opera Fusion: New Works in conjunction with Cincinnati Opera and her alma mater Cincinnati College Conservatory of Music. Previous engagements include Carmen, Orlovsky in Die Fledermaus, Hansel, Siegrune in Die Walkure, Lucretia in Rape of Lucretia, Maddalena in Rigoletto, Suzuki in Madama Butterfly, soloist in the Verdi Requiem, Berio Folk Songs, Mozart Requiem, world premieres by John Adams, Laura Kaminsky, Mikael Karlsson, Robert Paterson, Martin Hennessy, Mohammed Fairouz, Richard Pearson Thomas, Glen Roven, Yotam Haber, Jorge Martin, Tom Cipullo, Renee Favand-See, Gilda Lyons, Jessica Meyer, Gabriel Kahane and more. Companies include the Metropolitan Opera, Los Angeles Philharmonic, LA Opera, Dallas Symphony, San Diego Opera, Prototype Festival, Aldeburgh Festival, Lyrique en Mer, Tulsa Opera, Lyric Opera of Kansas City, Sarasota Opera, and Opera Saratoga. Based in New York City, Ensemble Échappé [EÉ] is a versatile group of soloists dedicated to presenting an eclectic spectrum of 20th and 21st century music. Undefined by genre or style, EÉ is a sinfonietta of 20 core members distinguished not only as exceptional instrumentalists, but as visionaries, sculpting the future of new music. The musicians of EÉ are bound together by the desire to explore diverse sonic palettes. Co-Directors Benjamin Grow and Nina C. Young believe in promoting a dialogue between performers and living composers, while also showcasing the masterworks of the American and European canons. EÉ has premiered and performed works by a wide array of composers including Andy Akiho, the Brothers Balliett, Lisa Bielawa, Jonathan Dawe, Jason Eckardt, Beat Furrer, Selim Goncu, Michael Hersch, Takuma Itoh, Aaron Holloway-Nahum, Tonia Ko, Fred Lerdahl, Andrew Norman, Kevin Puts, Kaija Saariaho, Sean Shepherd, Tina Tallon, Zeynep Toraman, and Ricardo Zohn-Muldoon. Échappé is cultivating a dedication to collaborations with vocal artists pursuing contemporary and experimental music. Ensemble Échappé Artistic Directors Benjamin Grow Nina C. Young Conductor Benjamin Grow Musicians Isabel Lepanto Gleicher, flute Lauren Williams, oboe Vasko Dukovski, clarinet Brad Balliett, bassoon Eric Reed, horn Sam Jones, trumpet Felix Del Tredici, trombone Samuel Budish, percussion Mike Truesdell, percussion Emily Levin, harp Ashley Jackson, harp Conor Hanick, piano Han Chen, piano Emilie-Anne Gendron, violin Karen Kim, violin Michelle Ross, violin Jessica Meyer, viola Jay Campbell, cello Caleb van der Swaagh, cello Doug Balliett, bass Advisory Board Fred Lerdahl Jeffrey Milarsky Steven Stucky (in memory) Director of Development Louis Chiappetta Operations Manager Mike Truesdell Photo by Taylor Hoope Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close