Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Brain Science Now: Treatment and Discoveries by Scientists at the Academy at Columbia Events Past Event Brain Science Now: Treatment and Discoveries by Scientists at the Academy at Columbia Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 22, 2015 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM With Academy Fellows Francesca Bartolini, Tiziano Colibazzi, Luana Fioriti, Franco Pestilli, Francesca Zanderigo See video at bottom. The Academy devotes substantial resources to neuroscience: it offers the Alexander Bodini Research Fellowship and sponsors other Fellowships each year in this field, and presents annual public symposia with leaders in this area. To spotlight the promising younger researchers who come from Italy to Columbia, we offer this panel —moderated by Columbia neurophysiologist David Sulzer— with former Italian Academy Fellows: Francesca Bartolini (on changes in cytoskeletal dynamics that contribute to neurodegenerative disease) Tiziano Colibazzi (on the imaging of adolescents at clinical high risk for psychosis) Luana Fioriti (on the pathological and physiological significance of protein aggregation) Franco Pestilli (on the highways to healing aging dementia), and Francesca Zanderigo (on PET quantification for brain research and clinical application). They will also address such topics as What is my research work, and my background? What path brought me here to my present job? What’s it like to work in Columbia lab? What was my experience in the Academy’s interdisciplinary Fellowship program? What do I bring from Columbia back to Italy? What distinguishes my research from the work of others on the panel? MODERATOR David Sulzer, Ph.D., is a professor of neurobiology in the Departments of Psychiatry, Neurology, and Pharmacology at Columbia University Medical Center. www.sulzerlab.org PANEL Francesca Bartolini, Ph.D., is Assistant Professor of Pathology and Cell Biology at Columbia’s Department of Pathology & Cell Biology. She studies the changes in cytoskeletal dynamics that contribute to neurodegenerative disease. http://sklad.cumc.columbia.edu/pharm/cumc/profile_new.php?id=353 Tiziano Colibazzi, M.D., is Assistant Professor of Clinical Neuroscience in Columbia’s Department of Psychiatry; he is also on faculty at the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research. He does research on the imaging of adolescents at clinical high risk for psychosis. Luana Fioriti, Ph.D., is Associate Research Scientist in Neuroscience in Columbia’s Department of Neuroscience. She studies the pathological and physiological significance of protein aggregation. Franco Pestilli, Ph.D., is Assistant Professor of Psychology, Neuroscience and Cognitive Science at Indiana University Bloomington and Member of the Indiana University Network Science Institute. Dr. Pestilli investigates human brain and behavior combining computational modeling, functional and structural brain mapping, and psychophysics. Francesca Zanderigo, Ph.D., is Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurobiology (in Psychiatry) and Director of the Laboratory of Image Analysis within Brain Imaging in Columbia’s Department of Psychiatry, Division of Molecular Imaging & Neuropathology, at the N.Y. State Psychiatric Institute. She focuses on the extraction of accurate quantitative information from medical images, for the purposes of improving disease diagnosis and treatment. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close