Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Ascoli Ensemble Events Past Event Ascoli Ensemble Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 9, 2011 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM Music in Italy: 1350-1450 The season continues with a visit from The Hague by the Ascoli Ensemble led by Sasha Zamler-Carhart. Their program will include the U.S. premiere of music from a recently-discovered medieval Italian manuscript and vocal works from the period 1350-1450. The six soloists of the ensemble hail from the Netherlands, England, France, and Bolivia. The Ascoli Ensemble is a Holland-based vocal ensemble specialized in the performance of rare and unknown music from the Middle Ages. It consists of six singers from different countries. Each singer is both a specialist of early music performance and a scholar, contributing to the ensemble's musicological work of deciphering, transcribing and interpreting medieval manuscript sources. The ensemble gained international recognition in 2009 for its reconstruction and modern world premiere of new polyphonic repertoire from a recently discovered Italian manuscript. Its first CD, "I Frammenti Ascolani," came out in 2010 with a program of Italian, French and Flemish polyphony. Artistic director and tenor Sasha Zamler-Carhart is a professor of medieval music and Latin at the Royal Conservatoire of The Hague, Holland. and all the singers are former students at the Royal Conservatoire. This concert is part of the Ascoli Ensemble's first US tour, which will culminate in a residency at MIT. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close