Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Premio New York Exhibition: Fatma Bucak and Antonio Fiorentino Events Past Event Premio New York Exhibition: Fatma Bucak and Antonio Fiorentino Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo June 20, 2019 - July 3, 2019 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM Image Carousel with 7 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Featured art from the exhibition Slide 2: Featured art from the exhibition Slide 3: Featured art from the exhibition Slide 4: Featured art from the exhibition Slide 5: Featured art from the exhibition Slide 6: Featured art from the exhibition Slide 7: Featured art from the exhibition Previous Next ALERT: The exhibition is at the Italian Cultural Institute, 686 Park Ave, New York, NY 10065 Opening of the exhibition by Fatma Bucak and Antonio Fiorentino, winners of the 2018/19 Premio New York. Curated by Isin Önol. On view until July 3. Gallery hours: Mon – Fri, 10 AM – 5 PM The exhibition reflects on the research processes of Fatma Bucak and Antonio Fiorentino, throughout their residency period at ISCP (International Studio & Curatorial Program) in New York. The two artists are the recipients of the sixteenth edition of the Premio New York (New York Prize). Embracing the nature of the residency period, the exhibition hosts the artists’ recent work in progress, revealing their material and conceptual interrogations that will lead into mature bodies of work based on their in-depth research on the delicate topics that they are dealing with. Bucak's practices in performance, photography, sound, and video center on political identity, cultural and gender norms, and landscape as a space of historical renegotiation. Her recent work examines the fragilities of politics, of possession, and ultimately of memory, through discarded debris of the city, and turns them into new forms, interrogating what is cast away and what remains. Fiorentino experiments with matter, manipulating its transformation processes in time, blurring its age. His recent research focuses on material alteration of objects, concealing the natural and human-made forces behind their existence and aging process. Throughout the research and production processes of the bodies of work-in-progress that are presented in the exhibition, the two artists worked in collaboration with New York-based curator Isin Önol. The exhibition was shaped as a result of their collaborative thinking process and discussions during their residency. The fellowship program “Premio New York” is organized by The Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation (MAECI), the Italian Ministry of Cultural Activities (MiBAC), the Italian Cultural Institute of New York, and Columbia University’s Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America. Fatma Bucak lives and works between London and Istanbul. She has had solo exhibitions at Fondazione Merz, GAM - Galleria d'Arte Moderna Sant'Anna, Brown University David Winton Bell Gallery, ARTER Istanbul, Artpace San Antonio, Pori Museum, and Castello di Rivoli. Her work has also been exhibited at the Goteborg Biennial 2017, 54th Venice Biennale Tese di San Cristoforo – Arsenale, The Jewish Museum New York, among others. Antonio Fiorentino lives and works in Milan. His work has been exhibited in MUSAC Leon, Swiss Institute of Rome, National Gallery of Rome, HIAP Helsinki, Kunst Meran, Center of Contemporary Art Villa Arson Nice, American Academy of Rome, Contemporary Locus Bergamo, and Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo in Torino among other institutions. Isin Önol is a New York-based curator. She is a member of the Center for the Study of Social Difference at Columbia University, board member of the Roberto Cimetta Fund, and a visiting professor in the visual arts program at Montclair State University in New Jersey. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close