Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events RAMIN AMIR ARJOMAND, piano Events Past Event RAMIN AMIR ARJOMAND, piano Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 7, 2019 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM An improvisation, two works by Giacinto Scelsi, and a fugue by J.S. Bach Arjomand: Improvisation Giacinto Scelsi: Quattro Illustrazioni ("Four illustrations of the metamorphoses of Vishnu," 1953) Scelsi: Poemi (1934/1937) J.S. Bach: Fugue No. 8 in D-sharp minor (Well-Tempered Clavier II) Ramin Amir Arjomand is an Iranian-American composer, pianist, conductor, and educator. Studied composition with Stephen Jaffe, Gheorghe Costinescu, Fred Lerdahl, Jonathan Kramer, and Tristan Murail. His concert music has been commissioned and/or performed by Speculum Musicae, So Percussion Ensemble, the New York Virtuoso Singers, the Cassatt Quartet, TAK Ensemble, the Columbia Collegium Musicum, and numerous independent ensembles and soloists. As a pianist, Arjomand has performed widely as a soloist and in ensembles presenting his own works. His approach cultivates spontaneity and thrives on questioning the need for pre-concieved formal structures. In recent appearances, his activity has focused on total improvisation. His electroacoustic music, based in a ProTools digital editing environment, works primarily with recorded improvised sound material. From 1999-2001, while a doctoral fellow at Columbia, Arjomand was the director and conductor of the University's early music choir, Collegium Musicum. During this time he began to research the polyphonic technique of 15th-century Flemish composers, whose music became the main focus of his concert repertoire with the Collegium. His doctoral dissertation was "On Contrapuntal Practice." His interest in vocal music and in speech as music has led to a wide variety of concert, electroacoustic and music-theater works. In 2007, his work Alma Redemptoris Mater for 12-part a capella choir was awarded First Prize in the New York Virtuoso Singers Choral Composition Competition and was premiered in New York City with Harold Rosenbaum conducting. Arjomand has worked extensively as a composer, pianist, lecturer, and musical adviser with the Barnard College Department of Dance. His approach to dance theater composition emphasizes contrapuntal relationships between sound and movement. He has worked to develop collaborative models in which composer and choreographer can trust one another to work freely and independently toward a common goal. His collaboration with choreographer Laveen Naidu, like arrows in the hand of a warrior, daybreak, was commissioned by the Barnard Dance Department and presented by Columbia's Miller Theatre. Arjomand completed his doctoral work in Music Composition at Columbia in 2006. A highly sought-after teacher, he has taught Harmony and Counterpoint, Piano, Chamber Music Coaching, Ear Training, and Masterpieces of Western Music. He is an Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Columbia Department of Music. http://raminamirarjomand.com/ Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close