Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Art Spiegelman & Phillip Johnston: Wordless! Events Past Event Art Spiegelman & Phillip Johnston: Wordless! Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 13, 2015 7:30 PM - 9:30 PM Co-sponsors: Heyman Center for the Humanities Department of Music at Columbia University Columbia University Libraries The Italian Academy At Columbia's MILLER THEATRE. Art Spiegelman, noted as a historian and theorist of comics as well as an artist, collaborates with Phillip Johnston, the critically acclaimed jazz composer who wrote all-new scores performed live with his sextet. Johnston’s music accompanies the cartoonist’s personal tour of the first legitimate “graphic novels”— silent picture stories made by early 20th century masters like Frans Masereel, Lynd Ward, and Milt Gross—and their influence on him. As Spiegelman explores “the battle between Words and Pictures,” he smashes at the hyphen between High and Low Art in a presentation featuring a new work drawn specifically for this project, “Shaping Thought.” Sydney-based New Yorker Phillip Johnston is best known for his work as a jazz composer ("Microscopic Septet," "The Coolerators"), and as a creator of music for silent films, most recently Lotte Reineger's 1927 animated feature, "The Adventures of Prince Achmed." Named one of Time magazine's "100 Most Influential People," Art Spiegelman has been translated into over 25 languages. He has always been an innovator, whether creating scurrilous bubble gum cards for kids, politically charged New Yorker covers for grown-ups, or pushing the boundaries of comics in Raw, the influential avant-garde magazine that he co-edited in the 1980s with his spouse and frequent collaborator, Françoise Mouly. Spiegelman’s most recent book is Co-mix, A Retrospective of Comics, Graphics and Scraps. "WORDLESS!" was originally commissioned by The Sydney Opera House for GRAPHIC. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close