Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Paolo Ventura Events Past Event Paolo Ventura Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: airplane art Slide 2: balloon art Slide 3: workshop art Previous Next January 24, 2013 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM Photography Paolo Ventura’s luminous and haunting photographs function as architectural relics of the imagination, portraying characters and scenarios that are magical, poignant and strangely familiar. We wonder where we saw these people before. Was it in a work of art or in a dream, or are they some part of our own identity that we suppressed in order to meet the practical demands of our lives? Referencing history, art and the subconscious, Ventura’s “invented worlds,” as he calls them, tell stories -- some of which he was told as a child by his father, an author of children’s books, and others imagined by the artist himself. Ventura creates his otherworldly photographs by constructing intricate miniature sets and then photographing them, first with a Polaroid for reference and finally with a Pentax 6 x 7 camera. The exhibition, which has been curated by Renato Miracco, will feature selected works from three of Ventura’s series: Winter Stories, which portrays the imagined memories of an old circus performer; The Automaton of Venice, based on a story told by the artist’s father about an elderly Jewish watch maker living in the Venice ghetto in 1943; and Behind the Walls, which introduces the artist as a character in an imagined narrative. Paolo Ventura is represented by Hasted Kraeutler gallery in New York and has had solo shows at the Museum of Contemporary Art of Rome; Galerie Camera Obscura, Paris; The Hague Museum of Photography; the Forma International Center of Photography, Milan; and the Venice Biennale, among others. His book, Winter Stories, was published by the Aperture Foundation in 2009. Born in Milan, Italy, in 1968, Ventura lives in Italy and New York. Renato Miracco has curated over 75 exhibitions, most notably at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, NYC; the Morgan Library, NYC; the Tate Modern, London; and the Museum of Modern Art, Bologna. He has been an art advisor at the Tate Modern in London, the Centre Pompidou in Paris and the Venice Biennale, among others. He is currently the Cultural Attaché to the Italian Embassy in Washington, D.C. and is the lead coordinator for the initiative, 2013: the Year of Italian Culture in the United States. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close