Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events Ensemble Origo: "Motets, Madrigals, and Moresche" Events Past Event Ensemble Origo: "Motets, Madrigals, and Moresche" Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 8, 2015 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Orlando di Lasso's Music for the Commedia dell'Arte at a 1568 Wedding Musicologist and conductor Eric Rice offers a 30-minute talk at 7:00 p.m. and a concert at 8:00 with Ensemble Origo, the early music group that he directs. Co-sponsor: Columbia’s Department of Music. On 22 February 1568, Duke Wilhelm V of Bavaria married Renata of Lorraine, and the ensuing celebration occupied the Munich court for nearly a week. The renowned composer Orlando di Lasso was charged with planning the music and theater for the occasion, including a series of commedia dell’arte presentations. His 1581 Libro di Villanelle contains a number of works whose texts are associated with the commedia dell’arte, and Massimo Troiano’s 1568 Dialoghi relates many details of the proceedings, including some musical ones. Taken together, these works allow for a reconstruction of some of the elaborate music that followed the wedding, including several madrigals and six moresche, carnivalesque Neapolitan dance-songs that represent the speech of African slaves. Though the non-Neapolitan portions of the texts of these works were long believed to be onomatopoetic gibberish, recent scholarship has revealed it to be Kanuri, the language of the Bornu Empire in the Lake Chad region from which many African slaves came to Naples. Lasso’s moresche are noteworthy for the sophistication of their rhythm and texture; rhythmic play stems from the texts themselves, while the complexity of the texture throws the racially- and sexually-charged dialogue into high relief, increasing the effect of the caricature for the Munich court’s audience. The music — performed by singers, recorders, sackbuts, and violas da gamba — invites us to consider race relations, commerce, and their effects on the culture of early modern Naples and Munich. The concert will be preceded by a thirty-minute pre-concert talk. Ensemble Origo's aim is to present vibrant performances of early music (from the Middle Ages through the baroque) that reflect the context in which the repertory was originally produced and heard; “Origo” is Latin for “earliest beginning,” “lineage,” or “origin.” Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close