Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Projects & Initiatives Projects & Initiatives Projects & Initiatives International Observatory for Cultural Heritage The conservation, protection, and preservation of heritage and the contemporary destruction of art and architecture are the focus of this initiative. A series of exhibitions and conferences—and some selected Fellowships—address the political uses and abuses of cultural heritage as well as the exchange, transport, and trafficking of objects. Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Since 2001, the Academy has developed public events designed to spread word of scientific advances and to bring together researchers in the sciences and the humanities, and has brought in Fellows doing ongoing studies. Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Titled On the Move: Prehistoric Mobility and the Spread of Agriculture in Eurasia and funded by NOMIS, a private Swiss foundation, this initiative engages evolutionary anthropology, genetics, archaeology, and more to address a fundamental demographic and cultural change in human evolutionary history: the transition from foraging to farming. Holocaust Remembrance The Italian Academy marks Holocaust Remembrance Day with an annual academic event exploring issues of discrimination and crimes against humanity. Over the years, the Academy has broadened its focus to explore groups that were targeted in the racism and xenophobia of the Nazi and Fascist regimes, and that suffered and died along with the millions of Jews. Law and its Manifestations The Academy supports research and seminars to look at law and its images, and at the relationship between law and nature in theory, philosophy, history, and religious thought. Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art (APAHA) An international for-credit summer course of advanced education created by the Academy and by the University of Rome’s H2CU, this program trains junior scholars in advanced approaches, with first-hand exposure to archaeology at Hadrian’s Villa.. The Academies Project at the Italian Academy The first website entirely dedicated to the history of scholarly and artistic academies from the Renaissance onward. APIA aims to organize scattered data about academies, their members and their output, and to build on their lively patrimony of intellectual innovation, discovery, and creativity. Digital Serlio Project Based at Columbia’s Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, an international team of scholars, students and staff conducts textual and visual analysis and has digitized Sebastiano Serlio’s unpublished manuscript, On Domestic Architecture, as well as published works. Funding for research and scholarship is provided by the Sidney J. Weinberg, Jr. Foundation and by the Samuel Freeman Charitable Trust. Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project In a three-year program illuminating aspects of this Mediterranean crossroads, the Sardinia initiative will launch with a conference on the history and recent restoration of the Giants of Mont’e Prama, dozens of ancient stone statues that were found in the 1970s. FRIDA Venice— Festivals in Renaissance Italy: Digital Atlas With funding from the Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation and the participation of Prof. Giuseppe Gerbino, former Fellow Francesca Bortoletti is developing a project on the interactions among texts and images in humanistic and court culture. Amatrice in Focus: Earthquakes and Photography—Recording the Past, Planning the Future A digital exhibition on the earthquake-damaged town of Amatrice and the fate of its cultural heritage. Developed by former Fellow Francesco Gangemi, together with Rossana Torlontano and Valentina Valerio, in collaboration with the Bibliotheca Hertziana – Max-Planck-Institut für Kunstgeschichte, and with the Soprintendenza archeologia del Lazio as an official partner. Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship (2011–2015) This Professorship is held by a distinguished visiting scholar from Italy in the fields of History of Art, Musicology, and Italian Studies, teaching within Columbia departments. The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close