Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Italian Academy Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded The Academy Events Fellowships Projects & Initiatives Publications About the Academy Governance History Staff Fellows Fellowship Program Weinberg Fellowships Bodini Fellowships Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Fellowships Premio New York All Projects International Observatory for Cultural Heritage Art, Humanities, and Neuroscience Project Nomis Project on Migrations and Mobility Holocaust Remembrance Law and its Manifestations Advanced Program of Ancient History and Art The Academies Project at the Italian Academy Digital Serlio Project Amatrice in Focus FRIDA Venice Sardinia Cultural Heritage Project Compagnia di San Paolo Professorship Annual Reports Academy Publications Working Papers The Italian Academy You are here: Home Events THRILLING WINGS: Fedele, Berio, Corrado Events Past Event THRILLING WINGS: Fedele, Berio, Corrado Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 21, 2017 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Francesco D'Orazio, violin and electric violin Francesco Abbrescia, live electronics Ivan Fedele Suite Francese II (2010) for solo violin; Luciano Berio Sequenza VIII (1976) for solo violin; Ivan Fedele Thrilling Wings (2013) for solo violin; Ivan Fedele Elettra (2014) for electric 5 strings violin and electronics; Pasquale Corrado Dal segno d'ombra (2016) for electric 5 strings violin and electronics; Ivan Fedele Suite Francese VI b (2015) for electric 5 strings violin and electronics. Mr. Fedele will be present for this concert. Francesco D'Orazio was born in Bari, Italy, and was taught violin and viola by his father. Later he studied with Denes Zsigmondy at the Salzburg Mozarteum and Yair Kless at the Rubin Academy in Tel Aviv. As soloist Mr. D'Orazio has performed in concerts in all Europe, North and South America, Mexico, Australia, China, and Japan. He has recorded for Decca, Hyperion, Opus 111/Naive Stradivarius and Amadeus. Mr. D'Orazio has performed at such concert venues as the Teatro alla Scala in Milan, Berliner Philarmonie, Accademia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia in Rome, Royal Albert Hall and Cadogan Hall in London, the Accademia Musicale Chigiana in Siena, the South Bank Center in London, the Centre de la Musique Baroque in Versailles, the Cervantino Festival in Mexico, Buenos Aires, Instanbul, MiTo, Montpellier, Potsdam, Ravenna, Ravello, Urbino, Salzburg, Strasbourg, Stresa, Tanglewood, Venice Biennale. Mr. D'Orazio’s large repertoire includes works from early music, as violinist in the original instrument ensemble L'Astrée of Turin, to classic, romantic and contemporary music. He premiered violin and orchestra works by the composers Terry Riley (Zephir), Ivan Fedele (Mosaique, Orizzonte di Elettra for electric 5 strings violin), Michael Nyman (Violin Concerto n.2), Brett Dean, Michele dall'Ongaro, Maury Buchala, Marcello Panni, Fabio Vacchi, Gilberto Bosco, Marco Betta, Fabian Panisello and Valerio Sannicandro and also many chamber works. Luis De Pablo wrote for D’Orazio his last violin work, “Per Violino”. For many years he worked with Luciano Berio, whose Divertimento for string trio he premiered at the Festival of Strasbourg, performing Sequenza VIII at the Festivals of Salzbourg and Tanglewood andCorale for violin and orchestra at the Citè de la Musique in Paris and the Auditorium Nacional de Musica in Madrid conducted by the composer. Mr. D'Orazio has performed with the London Symphony, Teatro alla Scala Philarmonic Orchestra, BBC Symphony Orchestra, Accademia di Santa Cecilia Orchestra, Mexico City Philharmonic, Orchestre National Il de France, the Shangai Philarmonic, the Berliner Symphoniker, the RAI National Symphony Orchestra, the Nagoya Philarmonic, the Orchestra of the Teatro La Fenice in Venice, the Saarlandischer Rundfunk, the Accademia Bizantina, the Academia Montis Regalis, conducted by Lorin Maazel, Luciano Berio, Hubert Soudant, Boris Brott, Ingo Metzmacher, Sakari Oramo, Steven Mercurio, Ottavio Dantone, Arturo Tamayo and Hansjorg Schellenberger. In 2010, the Italian National Music Critics Association awarded Francesco with the Premio Abbiati as “Best Soloist” of the year. Mr D’Orazio plays a violin by Giuseppe Guarneri, “Comte de Cabriac”, Cremona 1711 and a Jean Baptiste Vuillaume made in Paris in 1863. Francesco Abbrescia studied piano, singing and choral conducting, and graduated in composition (G. Francia) and electronic music (F. Scagliola) with honors from the Conservatory Niccolò Piccinni in Bari. He founded and conducted the Goitre Choir of the Harmonia Association – Choir and Orchestra of the University of Bari, with which he has presented many concerts in various Italian cities. In addition, he served as the artistic director of the annual review of contemporary music Musiche Nuove (2004-2011). Mr. Abbrescia was the assistant operator for interactive electronics and multimedia for the class in music film composition given by Luis Bacalov at the summer courses of the Chigiana Music Academy, Siena (2005-2014). He collaborates with internationally renowned composers (Ivan Fedele, Luis Bacalov, Michele Dall’Ongaro, Gianvincenzo Cresta, Pasquale Corrado) and performs computer music in Italy and abroad with musicians such as Francesco D’Orazio, Nicola Fiorino, Giampaolo Nuti and Filippo Lattanzi. His own works have been performed at many festivals around the world: Ars Electronica (Linz, Austria), ICMC (Ljubljana, Slovenia), FILE (São Paulo, Brazil), ÉuCuE (Montréal, Canada), and FIMU (Belfort, France). Francesco Abbrescia won the electronic music category of the Italian National Prize of Arts 2008/09 with his own composition Studio sull’intonazione della carne. Co-sponsor: Italian Cultural Institute in New York. Upcoming Events The Italian Academy for Advanced Studies, Columbia University1161 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2306 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close