Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search About a ABOUT I Tatti - The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies is a center for advanced research in the humanities located in Florence, Italy, and belongs to Harvard University. It also houses a library and an art collection, and it is the site of Italian and English gardens. I Tatti is located on an estate of olive groves, vineyards, and gardens on the border of Florence, Fiesole and Settignano. a MISSION I Tatti is dedicated to advanced research in all aspects of the Italian Renaissance. GARDENS AND GROUNDS The gardens and grounds of I Tatti are very much part of an integral visual experience. ART COLLECTION I Tatti's art collection offers a remarkable window into the development of the history, criticism, and installation of art. a NEWSLETTER The I Tatti newsletter opens a window into academic life at the Harvard Center. THE BERENSONS Bernard Berenson and Mary Smith Costelloe moved to I Tatti in 1901. FORMER APPOINTEE ACCESS Former Appointees have the same access to the library and to I Tatti’s information technology resources as current Appointees. a VISITOR INFORMATION Information concerning tours of I Tatti for Harvard students and alumni; scholars of the Renaissance; and the general public. MAP AND DIRECTIONS How to reach the Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies. CONTACT US Contact information for all I Tatti departments. Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar