Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Art Collection a ART COLLECTION Between the end of the nineteenth century and the first two decades of the twentieth, Bernard and Mary Berenson acquired a vast array of artworks. Best known today are the Italian panel paintings from the fourteenth through sixteenth centuries. Among these 150 works are many of rare beauty and importance, painted by artists such as Giotto, Bernardo Daddi, Pietro Lorenzetti, Sassetta, Domenico Veneziano, Vincenzo Foppa, Luca Signorelli, Cima da Conegliano, and Lorenzo Lotto. The Villa also houses nearly fifty Asian sculptures, objects, and scrolls, including a gilded bronze Buddhist altar dated 529CE, over twenty sculptures ranging from pre-Columbian and ancient Greek to Renaissance, and fifteen Islamic works—most notably two precious Persian illuminated manuscripts—as well as several fine pieces of furniture. A ceramic dish decorated by Picasso, a canvas by Renato Guttuso, and a handful of other works document Bernard Berenson’s interest in contemporary art. The Collection offers a remarkable window into the development of the history, criticism, and installation of art. Current cataloguing projects have already shown that the Collection is much more than a gathering of works by two talented collectors. Rather, the acquisitions closely follow the aesthetic and scholarly interests of the Berensons during the very period when they were making their mark as connoisseurs and art historians. The relation of the Collection to the art historical world at the time can be seen in the extensive correspondence between the Berensons and their friends, family, and colleagues, as well as in the couple’s diaries and their early publications. Late in life, in 1945, Bernard Berenson wrote: “These art objects were not acquired first and foremost with an eye to making a collection, but almost exclusively to adorn my abode. When that was completed some thirty years ago I stopped buying.” Although many works have been moved over the years, the overall appearance of the main rooms and corridors has remained relatively unchanged since 1915. We still see the “layered” installation with precious cloth hangings serving as backdrops to Italian Renaissance paintings, often placed in careful juxtaposition to beautiful Asian objects. The historic house reveals the tastes of the Berensons, who did so much to stimulate appreciation for Italian Renaissance art. The installations, for example, show how pieces of disassembled altarpieces could become aesthetic objects, appropriate for the walls of a refined home. In 1956, Berenson wrote “I would prefer my works of art to remain distributed over the house and not dumped into a separate room as a museum or gallery,” and the successive directors of the Harvard Center have shared his vision. The Collection thus allows all members of the I Tatti community to enjoy the experience of living with great works of art, and helps create the relaxed but stimulating atmosphere so conducive for conversations during lunch and tea. The unexpected dialogue between western and eastern art has always made visits to the Villa a stimulating experience. The Berenson Art Collection serves as a continual source of inspiration for studies, publications, and informal talks at I Tatti. a Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar