Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Special Grants for Fellows a SPECIAL GRANTS FOR FELLOWS THE LILA WALLACE – READER’S DIGEST SPECIAL PROJECT GRANT provides support for interdisciplinary projects in the Italian Renaissance, such as a conference, workshop, or seminar. The event must be organized by at least one former appointee and take place in a geographic area that has been under-represented at I Tatti, or in centers of education that rarely host Italian Renaissance events. The maximum grant is $20,000 to an institution, or $5,000 to one or more individual organizers. This grant cannot be combined with other funding provided by I Tatti. Please note that this grant must be disbursed to an institution named by that individual, or to the individual who made the application. Applicants must have had an I Tatti appointment within 10 years of the application’s submission date. Thus, for applications submitted in the 2021-22 academic year, Tattiani must have begun their appointment by September 2011. Recipients are chosen by a committee of senior Renaissance scholars, plus the Director as chair. Applications should include: a project description, including a list of invited speakers or participants, and panel organization a budget, including details of transportation costs a short list of publications and completed projects since the I Tatti appointment Applications must be sent to the Director care of John Lansdowne (jlansdowne[at]itatti.harvard.edu), preferably compiled in the form of a single PDF. Applications will be reviewed in two batches, with deadlines of March 1 and November 1. Applications should be submitted at least one term in advance of the planned event. THE LILA WALLACE – READER’S DIGEST PUBLICATIONS SUBSIDY provides grants each year for forthcoming scholarly books on the Italian Renaissance. Priority will be given to monographic studies by one or two authors; exceptionally, applications for edited collections of essays by several authors may be supported. Priority will be given to books based on research carried out during the applicant’s residency at I Tatti. Applicants must have had an I Tatti appointment as Fellow within 10 years of the application’s submission date. Thus, for applications submitted in the 2021-22 academic year, Tattiani must have begun their appointment by September 2011. Grants can be made to the publisher, to cover some but not all production costs, or to the applicant, to reimburse expenses, e.g. for photographs and reproduction rights. Most grants are of about $5,000, but the subsidy for major, expensive books can go as high as $8,000. In all cases, the grant will only be released when the book is published, and after all invoices or receipts are presented to I Tatti. Please note that repeat grants are very rare. This grant cannot be combined with other funding provided by I Tatti. Recipients are chosen by a committee of senior Renaissance scholars, plus the Director as chair. Applications should include: a short cover letter, specifying the amount requested (in US dollars) a short description of the book a table of contents a short CV a letter from the publisher. The publisher must confirm receipt and acceptance of the complete manuscript, and indicate the projected print run and printing date the prospectus sent to the publisher the reader reports received from the publisher (if applicable) a breakdown of total production costs for grants made to publishers or an itemized list of expenses for grants made to individuals Applications must be sent to the Director care of John Lansdowne (jlansdowne[at]itatti.harvard.edu), preferably compiled in the form of a single PDF. Applications will be reviewed in two batches, with deadlines of March 1 and November 1. Applications should be submitted at least one term in advance of the planned event. THE LILA WALLACE – READER’S DIGEST LECTURE PROGRAM provides grants to support seminars and conference sessions dedicated to any aspect of the Italian Renaissance, broadly understood historically to include the period from the 14th to the 17th century and geographically to include transnational dialogues between Italy and other cultures. Grants are intended to encourage the presence of the Renaissance at sites where it is less visible. Preference will be given to events that present an innovative approach to the Italian Renaissance, ask new questions, or explore new facets of the period. Preference will also be given to a session related to the Italian Renaissance that is held at a discipline-specific annual conference, e.g. one devoted to the history of art, architecture, history, literature, music, or science. All Harvard-appointed Fellows (Full-year and Term, including Graduate Fellows) are eligible to apply for this competitive grant. Applicants must be a participant in or organizer of the proposed event. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis, and can be made after the fellowship period begins, and within one year after the fellowship period ends. The sponsored event must take place within 12 months after the fellowship period is completed, and cannot take place while the applicant is still a Fellow. (In other words, for 2020-21 Fellows, the event itself must take place between July 1, 2021 – June 30, 2022; for 2021-22 Fellows, the event must take place between July 1, 2022 – June 30, 2023) Fellows can submit only one application, for one event. The maximum grant is a $3000 per event. Funds can only be used for transportation, room, board, and conference dues (if applicable) for organizers, presenters, and discussants at the event. The grant will be disbursed in the form of reimbursements, after the event. This grant cannot be combined with other funding provided by I Tatti. Please note that this grant must be disbursed to the individual who made the application. Fellows must send the Director a short proposal of the projected event, including a) full name, b) Fellowship name starting date, and ending date c) date of proposed event, d) location of proposed event, e) abstract of proposed event, f) estimated cost, g) names of participants. Please send to John Lansdowne: jlansdowne[at]itatti.harvard.edu. Fellows must ensure that “the Lila Wallace – Reader’s Digest Endowment Fund at Villa I Tatti” is clearly indicated in any publicity associated with the event. A concise report (ca. 300 words) about the event, together with a copy of the program, and receipts for reimbursement, must be submitted to Amanda Smith amanda_smith[at]harvard.edu. Applications will be reviewed in two batches, with deadlines of March 1 and November 1. Applications should be submitted at least one term in advance of the planned event. Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar