Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Upcoming Appointees a UPCOMING APPOINTEES I Tatti Fellows Damiano Acciarino CRIA Fellow De re vestiaria. Antiquity and Fashion during the Renaissance ... Read more about Damiano Acciarino Ovanes Akopyan Andrew W Mellon Fellow An Encounter of the Opposites: Images of Russia in Italian Renaissance Writing and the Russian Responses ... Read more about Ovanes Akopyan Eleonora Cappuccilli Andrew W Mellon Fellow Charismatic movements. A Transnational History of Women's Prophetic Experience between the Reformation and Counter-Reformation ... Read more about Eleonora Cappuccilli Nuno Castel-Branco Deborah Loeb Brice Fellow The Anatomy of a Conversion: Science, Religion, and Amicitia in Late Renaissance Europe ... Read more about Nuno Castel-Branco Paolo Celi Ahmanson Fellow When the World Stopped Making Sense. The Debate on Mathematics as Science at the Accademia degli Infiammati in Padua ... Read more about Paolo Celi Benjamin Deruelle Florence Gould Fellow The Siege and Fall of Siena (1555): A European Event? ... Read more about Benjamin Deruelle Grace Harpster Robert Lehman Fellow A Reformer’s Itinerary: The Power of the Image After Trent ... Read more about Grace Harpster Krisztina Ilko Hanna Kiel Fellow Tales of Bone and Feathers: African Animals in Early Renaissance Italy ... Read more about Krisztina Ilko Maria Gabriella Matarazzo Melville J Kahn Fellow Beyond «Buon Fresco»: Experimenting with Oil in Wall Painting (c. 1500-1700) ... Read more about Maria Gabriella Matarazzo Stefania Montemezzo Ahmanson Fellow The Flow of Fashion: The Role of Peddlers in the Diffusion of Trends in Renaissance Italy ... Read more about Stefania Montemezzo Emese Muntán Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fellow Papal Diplomacy, Catholic Agents, and Networks of Knowledge in Early Modern Ottoman Europe ... Read more about Emese Muntán Philippa Ovenden Jean-François Malle Fellow Johannes Vetulus de Anagnia’s Liber de musica ... Read more about Philippa Ovenden Edoardo Rossetti Francesco De Dombrowski Fellow The Visual World of Cardinal Carvajal and its Global Afterlife ... Read more about Edoardo Rossetti Paolo Rossini Deborah Loeb Brice Fellow Lost in the labyrinth: Giordano Bruno and the quest for infinity ... Read more about Paolo Rossini Katharine Stahlbuhk Rush H Kress Fellow Visualizing Community in 15th-Century Florence between Convent and City ... Read more about Katharine Stahlbuhk Post-Doctoral Fellows / Assistants to the Director Thomas Gruber Post-Doctoral Fellow and Assistant to the Director for Publications and Conferences Man as the Centre of the World: Ramon Sibiuda in the European Renaissance ... Read more about Thomas Gruber John Lansdowne Post-Doctoral Fellow and Assistant to the Director for Academic Programs Fraction = Union: The Image of the Ecumenical Church, 1274-1492 ... Read more about John Lansdowne Term Fellows (1st Semester) Walid Akef Graduate Fellow Munà, Ǧinān, and Basātīn. Periurban and Suburban Luxury Estates in Nasrid Granada (1238-1492) (September-December) ... Read more about Walid Akef Adrián Fernández Almoguera Wallace Fellow Alla ricerca della toscanità: The Contested Significance of Renaissance Architecture in Florence during the Age of Revolution (September-December) ... Read more about Adrián Fernández Almoguera Adam Jasienski Berenson Fellow Disgust and the Transgression of Bodily Boundaries in Early Modern Catholicism (September-December) ... Read more about Adam Jasienski Antonia Karaisl Kress Digital Humanities Fellow Plume de nom: An Experimental Approach to Scribal Hand Identification using OCR Technology (September-December) ... Read more about Antonia Karaisl Ioannis Kyriakantonakis I Tatti/Dumbarton Oaks Joint Fellow A study on Seventeenth-Century Religious Dynamics. The Traces of Kigalas Family. (July-December) ... Read more about Ioannis Kyriakantonakis Davide Lacagnina Wallace Fellow Surrealist Renaissance: Old Masters, Art Histories, Other Modernities (September-December) ... Read more about Davide Lacagnina Furio Rinaldi David and Julie Tobey Fellow The Drawings of Sandro Botticelli (September-December) ... Read more about Furio Rinaldi David Salomoni Berenson Fellow Italian Women of Lisbon (and beyond): Agency, Private Lives, Education, between Portugal and the World, 1500-1650 (September-December) ... Read more about David Salomoni Ana Šverko Berenson Fellow The Sanmichelis’ Fortification Architecture of the Stato da Màr: An Unwritten Renaissance Treatise (September-December) ... Read more about Ana Šverko Term Fellows (2nd Semester) Alebachew Birru I Tatti/Getty Black Mediterranean Fellow The Shay Culture: Tumuli of traditional-religious people in Ethiopia and their artefactual relationship with the Mediterranean world (10th-16th c.) (January-June) ... Read more about Alebachew Birru Konrad Boeschenstein Graduate Fellow Republic of Letters: The Social Aspects of Renaissance Humanism in Quattrocento Florence (January-June) ... Read more about Konrad Boeschenstein Giorgia Bove Graduate Fellow Empire and Apocalypse in the Thought of Girolamo Savonarola (January-June) ... Read more about Giorgia Bove Marco Demichelis Berenson Fellow Paolo Giovio, Giovanni Botero, and Islamic Otherness at the End of the Italian Renaissance (January-June) ... Read more about Marco Demichelis Claudia di Luzio Wallace Fellow Transitions: Early Vocal Music in Works by Italian Composers Today (January-June) ... Read more about Claudia di Luzio Johannes Gebhardt I Tatti/Museo Nacional del Prado Joint Fellow Blood. Dimensions of Liminality in Early Modern Italian and Hispanic Art (January-June) ... Read more about Johannes Gebhardt Linda Mueller Graduate Fellow Arte-Facts: Drawings as Legal and Juridical Objects in Early Modern Italy (January-June) ... Read more about Linda Mueller Dimitri Ozerkov Craig Hugh Smyth Fellow Vincenzo Brenna and the funeral architecture of the late Baroque (March-August) ... Read more about Dimitri Ozerkov Matteo Salvadore Berenson Fellow African Self-Fashioning and Survival in Early Modern Europe: The Journey of Ṣägga Krәstos and Its Legacy. (January-June) ... Read more about Matteo Salvadore Cheikh Sene I Tatti/DHI Rom Joint Fellow for African Studies Studying the slave trade through its smallest elements: Trading goods, currencies, weights, measures and taxation in Senegambia 1446-1817 (February-June) ... Read more about Cheikh Sene Deresse Ayenachew Woldetsadik I Tatti/Getty Black Mediterranean Fellow Medieval Ethiopian Royal Churches in Mediterranean styles(15th-16th century) (January-June) ... Read more about Deresse Ayenachew Woldetsadik Tommaso Zerbi Wallace Fellow The Renaissance Unveiled: The Façade of Santa Maria del Fiore and the Florentine Feasts of May 1887 (January-June) ... Read more about Tommaso Zerbi Research Associates Ludovica Galeazzo Digital Humanities Research Associate Archipelago: Mapping the Islands of the Venetian Lagoon ... Read more about Ludovica Galeazzo Remo Grillo Digital Humanities Research Associate Digital Research Infrastructure for the Humanities ... Read more about Remo Grillo Gianmarco Spinaci Digital Humanities Research Associate Digital Research Infrastructure for the Humanities ... Read more about Gianmarco Spinaci a Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar