Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search I Tatti Fellowship a YEAR FELLOWSHIP Fifteen I Tatti Residential Fellowships, each for twelve months, are available annually for post-doctoral research in any aspect of the Italian Renaissance, broadly understood historically to include the period from the 14th to the 17th century and geographically to include transnational dialogues between Italy and other cultures (e.g. Latin American, Mediterranean, African, Asian etc.). I Tatti offers Fellows the precious time they need to pursue their studies with a minimum of obligations and interruptions together with a maximum of scholarly resources—a combination that distinguishes the Harvard Center from similar institutions. Fellows have full access to the Berenson Library’s rich collections of books and periodicals, photographs and digital images, manuscripts and recordings. As one of the over seventy libraries that make up the Harvard Library system, the Biblioteca Berenson provides access to a vast range of online journals and other electronic resources, and offers Fellows comprehensive interdisciplinary resources for the study of late medieval and early modern Italy. I Tatti is a site for lively academic encounters and dynamic exchanges. Each year, a number of activities such as exploratory seminars, workshops, and tours of exhibitions and cultural institutions are organized for the Fellows. In addition, the center hosts conferences, lectures, and concerts and attendance is expected of all Appointees. Rather than present a traditional paper at the end of the year, Fellows give presentations of their fellowship projects in-progress in September. This provides an opportunity to explore problems and questions and receive valuable feedback early in the fellowship year from other members of the multidisciplinary community. Eligibility Fellows are selected by an international and interdisciplinary committee that welcomes applications from scholars from all nations. The committee aims to assess the ability of candidates to contribute in a collegial way to the intellectual life of the Harvard Center. It pays special attention to the strength of the proposed project and its potential to yield original results, and to the candidate’s curriculum vitae. At the time of application, scholars must hold a PhD, dottorato di ricerca, or an equivalent degree and will be asked to upload a scan of the certificate. They must be conversant in either English or Italian and able to understand both languages. They should be in the early stages of their career, having received a PhD between January 1, 2011 – September 1, 2021, and have a solid background in Italian Renaissance studies. Candidates may not be working on a second PhD at the time of application. In the event that a candidate holds two doctoral degrees, the eligibility dates (PhD certificate dated between January 1, 2011 – September 1, 2021, inclusive) apply to the more recent degree. The project must represent advanced research in the Italian Renaissance, broadly defined historically as the period ranging from the 14th to the 17th centuries and geographically to include transnational dialogues between Italy and other cultures (e.g. Latin American, Mediterranean, African, Asian etc.). Subjects covered include art and architecture, history, literature, material culture, music and performance, philosophy, religion, and science. Scholars can also apply to work on the transmission and circulation of ideas, objects, and people during the Renaissance, into and beyond the Italian peninsula, or on the historiography of the Italian Renaissance, including the rebirth of interest in the Renaissance in later periods. It must be possible for applicants to carry out most of their research in Florence with the resources available in the city and at I Tatti. Applicants should demonstrate that they have already completed the necessary preliminary work to establish that the project shows promise. Preference is given to a postdoctoral research project, but projects could also represent a significant reworking of a dissertation. Special consideration may be given to candidates without regular access to research materials and facilities available in Italy. One of the I Tatti fellowships, sponsored by a generous grant from the Florence Gould Foundation, is designated for scholars who a) work on a Franco-Italian Renaissance topic (which includes any project exploring the contact between the geographic areas of Italy and France in the early modern period); b) reside in France; or c) have French citizenship. Candidates who fall into one or more of these categories should indicate their status in the penultimate section on the application form. The Fellow is responsible for obtaining a visa, permesso di soggiorno, and health coverage (and, if appropriate, for accompanying family members). The Fellow must determine if a visa is required and, if necessary, obtain one before travel. Renewals or repeats of an I Tatti Fellowship are not granted. Scholars can apply for only one type of fellowship at I Tatti per academic year. Terms The Fellowship year runs from July 1 to June 30. In light of the residential nature of this fellowship, Fellows must live in the Florence area and be present at the Villa and at lunch at least three days a week beginning the first week of September. They are expected to engage fully in the scholarly life of the institution, and attendance at lectures, Fellows’ seminars, and other events sponsored by I Tatti is assumed of every Fellow. The principal duty of an I Tatti Fellow is to pursue advanced research at I Tatti. Fellows must obtain full academic leave from their home institutions and devote full time to their studies here. No Fellow is allowed to have any other professional obligations, paid or unpaid. Absences, e.g. for a job interview or thesis defense, should be kept to a reasonable level and appointees must write to the Director for approval of absences of a week or longer. Since Fellows are not expected to be at the Villa until early September, we recommend they pursue research at sites outside of Florence during July and August. Fellows are offered a study, use of the Biblioteca Berenson, lunches on weekdays, and various other privileges. The stipend is $60,000, plus a supplement towards relocation expenses. There are several apartments on the I Tatti property, rent free, but with charges for utilities. If an apartment is not available, a housing subsidy will be offered to help offset rental costs. If the candidate receives partial salary or outside grants, this must be indicated on the application or in subsequent correspondence with the Director, and permission must be received. Application Applications can be written in English or Italian and must be submitted electronically by midnight (Cambridge, MA time) on October 15, 2021. Scholars can apply for only one type of I Tatti fellowship per academic year. NB: A yearlong I Tatti Fellowship for Non-UK citizens normally based in the UK could jeopardize the outcome of their eventual application for settlement (also called ‘indefinite leave to remain’) in the UK. We encourage such scholars to apply instead for a short-term fellowship at I Tatti. Letters of Recommendation Applicants must have two scholars who know their work well submit recommendations online by October 22, 2021. These recommendations can be written in English or Italian. In order to give your referees adequate time to submit letters of recommendation, click the reference tab and register them as early as possible. Referees will receive an email explaining how to access the system and submit their letters electronically. It is the applicants’ responsibility to inform the scholars writing on their behalf of the nature of the project and the deadline for submission. The application deadline for this fellowship has passed a Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar