Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Programs a PROGRAMS The most important goals of I Tatti are to advance our understanding of the Italian Renaissance and to encourage the fruitful interchange of ideas. To this end, the center offers fifteen full-year post-doctoral I Tatti Fellowships annually, as well as several fellowships for shorter periods. The center provides a tranquil setting where scholars can exchange ideas and carry out their research. Fellows join a community of scholars from all over the world, working in a wide range of fields and often with different methodological approaches. I Tatti's academic community is rounded out with Research Associates, Visiting Professors, and the scholars on staff. a YEAR FELLOWSHIP Fifteen Fellowships are available annually for post-doctoral research in any aspect of the Italian Renaissance. TERM FELLOWSHIPS A number of Term Fellowships are available annually for post-doctoral and postgraduate scholars. VISITING PROFESSORSHIPS Each semester, a number of distinguished senior scholars serve as Visiting Professors at I Tatti. a ARTIST IN RESIDENCE PROGRAM For artists who may benefit from connecting with I Tatti’s group of scholars working in the fields of Italian and Global Renaissance. INTERNSHIPS & GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS Opportunities for Harvard students and graduates. SPECIAL GRANTS FOR FELLOWS Former Fellows can apply for Lila Acheson Wallace – Reader’s Digest Special Grants to support their scholarship. a Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar