Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Mission a MISSION Welcome to I Tatti. Our roots as a center for advanced research go back to the late 1950s when the art historian and connoisseur Bernard Berenson left his villa and extensive collections of books, photographs, and works of art to his alma mater Harvard. The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies opened its doors to the first scholars in 1961, and the villa which had hitherto been home to Berenson and his wife Mary was transformed into a center where gifted scholars could exchange ideas, find tranquility, and be physically close to the many sites of historical importance in Florence and beyond. Berenson took a broad geographic view of the Renaissance, urging scholars to travel and gather knowledge beyond European boundaries, and while he held Harvard in great esteem he also expressed the hope that scholars coming to I Tatti would originate not only from the United States but from many countries, bringing with them their own approaches and viewpoints. These notions of collaboration, exploration and fellowship remain central to I Tatti’s mission to this day. Currently, the Center hosts fifteen full-year post-doctoral Fellows in addition to over twenty Term Fellows, ten Visiting Professors, several graduate Fellows, and Harvard interns. The Berenson Library, with holdings of nearly 185,000 volumes and subscriptions to over 600 scholarly journals, includes an extensive and historically important photograph collection, an archive that documents the lives and work of Bernard and Mary Berenson, and the Morrill Music Library, considered one of the finest in the world for medieval and Renaissance music. The historic house contains a unique collection of Renaissance and Asian art, while I Tatti’s grounds include a working farm and a historic Italianate garden designed in 1909 by Cecil Pinsent with the collaboration of Geoffrey Scott. By now I Tatti has welcomed over one thousand appointees working in the fields of Italian Renaissance art, history, literature, philosophy, history of science, and music. The center's location near central Florence provides a stimulating and intellectually vibrant setting where scholars can benefit from our resources, carry out their research, and interact with their peers and the wider academic community. “nothing opens mind and heart like the free discussion of gifted maturing individuals, coming together with their own national traditions and differing attitudes and approaches.” Bernard Berenson, 1959 The most important goals of I Tatti are to advance our understanding of the Italian Renaissance, to encourage the fruitful interchange of ideas, and to create an atmosphere conducive to research and writing. I Tatti is a financially independent institution and we are able to pursue our goals thanks to the generous support of enlightened individuals and institutions whose belief in the future of the humanities leads them to foster Renaissance scholarship at our center. Having been personally involved with I Tatti in various ways over the years, including two appointments as Visiting Professor during the last decade, it is now a great privilege to serve as Director of the world’s foremost institution for excellence in Italian Renaissance Studies. Alina Payne Paul E. Geier Director Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies Alexander P. Misheff Professor of History of Art and Architecture Harvard University a Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar