Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Former Appointee Access a FORMER APPOINTEE ACCESS General information for former Appointees Former Appointees have the same access to the library and to I Tatti’s information technology resources as current Appointees, however a keycard for access outside of public hours must be obtained from the Security staff. For all appointees, current and former, the only access to the library is through the main entrance and reception area. If Former Appointees wish to show the collection to visitors (at most one or two at a time), they must arrange this in advance. Please remember that the house and the garden are closed to everyone on weekends. Everyone who enters the library or house must check their bags, regardless of their status, the reason for the visit, or the length of their stay. Please understand that if someone inadvertently enters with a bag, the guards are expected to examine this when the visitor leaves. Library The Library’s collections (Fototeca / Photograph Archive, Archives, etc.), services, and regulations are described in detail in the Library section of this website. Former Appointees must request and present a Berenson Library ID card to use the library and to borrow books and other materials (for onsite use only). From the Library or I Tatti network, former Appointees may access all Harvard Library electronic resources, but a Harvard ID is required for off-site access. Lunch After the first full week of September, former Appointees are welcome at the lunch table every day except Thursday. Please check with reception to sign-up and for indications about availability of space. The first lunch each year is “on the house” while subsequent lunches cost €12,50; please pay in advance at the reception desk. Reservations must be made before 10:15 a.m by calling +39 055 603 251 The Granaio is always open to those who bring their own lunch. a Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar