Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search The Berensons a THE BERENSONS In 1900, Bernard Berenson and Mary Smith Costelloe married and moved to a rural property that had been called "Tatti" or "I Tatti' since at least the Middle Ages. They first rented this property, set in the Settignano foothills east of Florence, from Sir John Temple Leader, a local English expatriate, and then bought from his heir on 10 March 1908. The Berensons employed the English architects Geoffrey Scott and Cecil Pinsent to remodel the house, add a library, and create an Italianate garden set within a working farm. In a short time, they fashioned I Tatti into a comfortable home and center of intellectual, cosmopolitan life, suitably decorated with early Italian panel paintings and Asian art. The Berensons continued to live at I Tatti until they died, Mary in 1945 and Bernard in 1959. Bernard Berenson, who had graduated from Harvard College in 1887, credited his success as a historian and critic of late Medieval and Renaissance art to his strong education in the humanities. He planned early on to leave his estate to his alma mater and wished to establish a center of scholarship that would advance humanistic learning throughout the world, as well as increase understanding of the values by which civilizations develop and survive. Besides the Villa, his library of some 50,000 volumes, and an archive of photographs particularly strong in Italian Renaissance painting, Berenson left Harvard his works of art, his archive of correspondence and papers, the surrounding farmlands and gardens, and several other buildings. He saw both the collection and the setting at I Tatti as providing encouragement to thoughtful and creative intellectual meditation. See also: Berenson and Harvard. Bernard and Mary as Students Yashiro and Berenson: Art History between Japan and Italy Villa I Tatti: An Oral History a BERNARD BERENSON Bernard Berenson was one of the most famous and influential connoisseurs of Italian Renaissance paintings and drawings. MARY BERENSON Mary Berenson, a scholar of Italian Renaissance art, was the wife of Bernard Berenson, whom she often assisted in his research, writing, and business affairs. ON THE FUTURE OF I TATTI Berenson's 1956 statement, in which he expressed the desire that his estate be transformed into an “institute to promote aesthetical and humanistic … interests.” Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar