Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Berenson Library a BERENSON LIBRARY The Berenson Library plays a vital role in I Tatti’s mission to advance scholarship in Italian Renaissance studies. Its rich collections of books and periodicals, photographs and digital images, manuscripts and recordings offer comprehensive interdisciplinary resources for the study of late medieval and early modern Italy, the library's central focus. As one of the over seventy libraries that make up the Harvard Library system, the Biblioteca Berenson also provides access to a vast range of online journals and other electronic resources. An invaluable point of reference for I Tatti's scholarly community, the library welcomes other Harvard affiliates, local researchers, and visiting scholars from around the world. I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. a REQUEST ACCESS Review our admittance policy and apply for access to the Berenson Library and its resources. PRACTICAL INFORMATION Practical information for users of the Berenson Library. EXPLORE OUR COLLECTIONS A rich array of resources for the study of all aspects of Italian society and culture in the Renaissance. a USING THE COLLECTIONS Practical information about library policies, consultation of materials, use of special collections, and more. CATALOGS AND RESEARCH TOOLS Tools to help users find the materials they need within our collections. HISTORICAL NOTES The library has its origins in the impressive private collection assembled by Bernard and Mary Berenson. a View Lists of Monthly Acquisitions Recommend a Library Purchase Access Hollis the Harvard library catalog a Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar