Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Community a COMMUNITY One of the most significant features of Villa I Tatti is its community. The Fellows and Visiting Professors who arrive each year from different parts of the world are not just given the time to pursue their research, but the opportunity to meet and exchange ideas with fellow scholars. The library, household, administrative, garden, farm and security staff are a vital part of I Tatti, and the well-being of the community each year is to a great extent based on their work. a 2021 / 2022 COMMUNITY The 2021 / 22 community is made up of nearly fifty scholars working on all aspects of the Italian Renaissance. DIRECTOR Alina Payne is Alexander P. Misheff Professor of History of Art and Architecture at Harvard University and Paul E. Geier Director of I Tatti. STAFF Members of staff work in the kitchen, library, administration, IT, garden, farm, and security. a FORMER APPOINTEES By now I Tatti has welcomed over one thousand appointees from all over the world. FORMER DIRECTORS Eight Directors have led I Tatti since the Center opened its doors to the first scholars in 1961. EMERITI Research Associates Emeriti are vital members of the academic community. a Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar