Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search The Villa I Tatti Series a THE VILLA I TATTI SERIES Since 1972, the Villa I Tatti Series has assembled contributions written by or in honor of scholars associated with I Tatti as well as a books on the history of Bernard Berenson and I Tatti and catalogues of I Tatti’s outstanding art collections. Yoltar-Yıldırım, Ayşin, ed. 2021. Persian Manuscripts & Paintings from the Berenson Collection. Harvard University Press. Publisher's Version Abstract Persian Manuscripts & Paintings from the Berenson Collection presents an in-depth analysis of the little-known Persian manuscripts and paintings collected by the world-renowned art historian, art critic, and connoisseur Bernard Berenson (1865–1959). It focuses on three manuscripts and four detached folios (containing over fifty paintings) from the fourteenth to the seventeenth century produced in Iran and Central Asia (with a later addition in Mughal India). Fourteen essays are written by an international team of specialists in art history, Persian literature, statistics, conservation, and conservation science. The first two essays introduce Berenson’s collecting of these art works as an individual and as a trend among other collectors. The rest of the essays explain individual works of art. The Timurid Rasaʾil and the Safavid manuscripts Shahnama of Firdawsi and Farhad va Shirin of Vahshi are examined in groups of essays ranging from art historical to literary, statistical, and codicological analysis. The detached folios studied as single essays originate from the famous Great Mongol Shahnama; the 1436 Timurid Zafarnama of Sharaf al-Din ʿAli Yazdi; a Turkman Shahnama; and the dispersed Imperial Mughal Album also known as the Minto, Wantage, and Kevorkian albums. The appendix refers to the materials and techniques of the paintings in the volume. Grieco, Allen J. 2020. Food, Social Politics and the Order of Nature in Renaissance Italy. Harvard University Press. Publisher's Version Abstract The act of eating is a basic human need. Yet in all societies, quotidian choices regarding food and its consumption reveal deeply rooted shared cultural conventions. Food goes beyond issues relating to biological needs and nutrition or production and commerce; it also reveals social and cultural criteria that determine what dishes are prepared on what occasions, and it unveils the politics of the table via the rituals associated with different meals. This book approaches the history of food in Late Medieval and Renaissance Italy through an interdisciplinary prism of sources ranging from correspondence, literature (both high and low), and medical and dietary treatises to cosmographic theory and iconographic evidence. Using a variety of analytical methods and theoretical approaches, it moves food studies firmly into the arena of Late Medieval and Renaissance history, providing an essential key to deciphering the material and metaphorical complexity of this period in European, and especially Italian, history. Gaston, Robert W., and Louis A. Waldman, ed. 2017. San Lorenzo: A Florentine Church. Publisher's Version Abstract This comprehensive, interdisciplinary collection illuminates many previously unexplored aspects of the Basilica of San Lorenzo’s history, extending from its Early Christian foundation to the modern era. Brunelleschi’s rebuilt Basilica, the center of liturgical patronage of the Medici and their grand-ducal successors until the nineteenth century, is today one of the most frequently studied churches in Florence. Modern research has tended, however, to focus on the remarkable art and architecture from ca. 1400–1600. In this wide-ranging collection, scholars investigate: the urban setting of the church and its parish; San Lorenzo’s relations with other ecclesiastical institutions; the genesis of individual major buildings of the complex and their decorations; the clergy, chapels and altars; the chapter’s administration and financial structure; lay and clerical patronage; devotional furnishings, music, illuminated liturgical manuscripts, and preaching; as well as the annual or ephemeral festal practices on the site. Each contribution offers a profound exploration of its topic, wide-ranging in its chronological scope. One encounters here fresh archival research, the publication of relevant documents, and critical assessments of the historiography. San Lorenzo is represented in this volume as a living Florentine institution, continually reshaped by complex historical forces. Strehlke, Carl Brandon, and Machtelt Brüggen Israëls. 2015. The Bernard and Mary Berenson Collection of European Paintings at I Tatti. Publisher's Version Abstract .The Bernard and Mary Berenson Collection of European Paintings at I Tatti surveys the 149 works assembled by the Berensons for their home in Florence from the late 1890s through the first decades of the twentieth century at the time that they were making their mark on the world as connoisseurs. The catalogue presents a privileged window on the Berensons' intellectual interests through the objects they owned. The entries, written by an international team of art historians, take full advantage of the extensive correspondence from the Berensons' friends, family, and colleagues at I Tatti as well as the couple's diaries and notations on the backs of their vast gathering of photographs. All the entries are lavishly illustrated with full scholarly and technical accountings of the objects. There are also 17 illustrated reconstructions of the original contexts of panel paintings. The catalogue includes essays on the progress of the Berensons' collecting, their love for Siena, the Sienese forger Icilio Federico Joni, the critic Roger Fry, and René Piot's murals at I Tatti, as well as a listing of 94 pictures that were once at I Tatti including donations made to museums in Europe and America. For the complete index, click here. Black, Robert, and John Law, ed. 2015. The Medici: Citizens and Masters. Publisher's Version Abstract The Medici controlled fifteenth-century Florence. Other Italian rulers treated Lorenzo the Magnificent (1449-1492) as an equal. To his close associates he was "the boss" ("master of the workshop"). But Lorenzo liked to say he was just another Florentine citizen. Were the Medici like the kings, princes and despots of contemporary Italy? Or were they just powerful citizens? This book takes a novel, comparative approach. It sets Medici rule against princely states such as Milan and Ferrara. It asks how much the Medici changed Florence and contrasts their supremacy with earlier Florentine regimes. The contributors take diverse angles, focusing on politics, political thought, social history, economic policy, religion, the church, humanism, intellectual history, Italian literature, theater, festivals, music, imagery, iconography, architecture, historiography, and marriage. This book is perfect for students of History, Renaissance Studies, Italian Literature, Art History or anyone keen to learn about one of history's most colorful, influential and puzzling families Connors, Joseph, and Louis A. Waldman, ed. 2014. Bernard Berenson: Formation and Heritage. Villa I Tatti, 440. Publisher's Version TLS Review (Times Literary Supplement, 29 October 2014) Israëls, Machtelt, and Louis A Waldman, ed. 2013. Renaissance Studies in Honor of Joseph Connors. Publisher's Version Hankins, James, and Fabrizio Meroi, ed. 2013. The Rebirth of Platonic Theology. Florence: Leo S. Olschki. Publisher's Version Wolf, Gerhard, Joseph Connors, and Louis A Waldman, ed. 2012. Colors Between Two Worlds: The Florentine Codex of Bernardino de Sahagún. Florence: Villa I Tatti. Farbaky, Peter, and Louis A Waldman, ed. 2011. Italy and Hungary: Humanism and Art in the Early Renaissance. Florence: Villa I Tatti. Publisher's Version Israëls, Machtelt, and Louis A. Waldman, ed. 2010. Renaissance studies in honor of Joseph Connors: toward a Festschrift. Florence: Leo S. Olschki. Publisher's Version Elam, Caroline, and Louis A. Waldman, ed. 2010. Craig Hugh Smyth--In Memoriam. Florence: Leo S. Olschki. Publisher's Version Israëls, Machtelt, ed. 2009. Sassetta: The Borgo San Sepolcro Altarpiece. Florence: Villa I Tatti. Publisher's Version Friedman, David, Julian Gardner, and Margaret Haines, ed. 2009. Arnolfo's Moment: Acts of an International Conference (Florence, Villa I Tatti, May 26-27, 2005). Florence: Leo S. Olschki. Publisher's Version Busse, Anna Maria Berger, and Massimiliano Rossi, ed. 2009. Memory and Invention: Medieval and Renaissance Literature, Art and Music. Florence: Leo S. Olschki. Publisher's Version Eckstein, Nicholas A, ed. 2007. The Brancacci Chapel: Form, Function and Setting. Florence: Leo S. Olschki. Publisher's Version Kent, F.W, ed. 2005. Nicolai Rubinstein – In Memoriam. Florence: Leo S. Olschki. Publisher's Version Rossi, Massimiliano, and Fiorella Superbi Gioffredi, ed. 2004. “L’arme e gli amori.” Ariosto, Tasso and Guarini in Late Renaissance Florence. Florence: Leo S. Olschki. Publisher's Version Grieco, Allen J., Michael Rocke, and Fiorella Superbi Gioffredi, ed. 2002. The Italian Renaissance in the Twentieth Century. Florence: Leo S. Olschki. Publisher's Version Haines, Margaret, ed. 2001. Santa Maria del Fiore: The Cathedral and its Sculpture. Fiesole: Cadmo. Publisher's Version 1 of 2 » 4e4f6afb7e834846cf9e731680adb3c0 Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 5d817111a48362ad5bf57dfeeae93bbb 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar