Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Harvard Catalogs and Other Research Tools a CATALOGS AND RESEARCH TOOLS HOLLIS HOLLIS is the Harvard Library catalog, and the entire holdings of the Berenson Library can be discovered here. HOLLIS searches most resources owned by Harvard Library in a single unified search, including books, journals, manuscripts, images, archives, and more, and also provides access to a huge range of online indices and full-text content. Consult HOLLIS Help for more information about how to get the most from HOLLIS searches. Berenson Library users who do not hold a Harvard ID may access most online content from the library’s terminals and wifi network. HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Catalog specifically designed for exploring collection guides, finding aids, and inventories to special collections and archival materials at 30 Harvard repositories, including letters, papers, photos, digital content, and more. HOLLIS Images HOLLIS Images is Harvard Library’s dedicated image catalog. It includes content from archives, museums, libraries, and other collections throughout Harvard University. Access to the catalog is open to the general public, though the viewing of some full-resolution images may be restricted to Harvard or onsite users. Check Harvard Library Bookmark Use this bookmarklet to get quick access to subscriptions purchased by Harvard Library. Lean Library A browser extension that provides seamless access to Harvard Library subscriptions from anywhere on the web. Rinascimento – Research Guide to Renaissance Studies A guide to the most important electronic resources and digital humanities projects of relevance to Renaissance Studies. The guide also lists research centers or organizations devoted to the Renaissance as well as current and upcoming conferences and lectures in the field. Image Collections at the Berenson Library A guide to the wide-ranging collections of images held by I Tatti’s library. IRIS Consortium of Florentine Area Art History and Humanities Libraries In addition to HOLLIS, many of the Berenson Library’s holdings appear in the Florentine union catalog of IRIS, of which I Tatti was a founding member in 1993. The Berenson Library’s records are updated in the IRIS catalog once a month. For up-to-date information on new accessions, holdings data, and the availability of items, as well as for information on most non-print materials like images and archival resources, users should consult HOLLIS. Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar