Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Current Appointees a CURRENT APPOINTEES I Tatti Fellows Gaston Javier Basile Andrew W Mellon Fellow Reshaping Nature: Humanist Scientific Translations in the Late Italian Quattrocento ... Read more about Gaston Javier Basile Giorgio Bottini Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fellow Machiavelli, Political Thomism, and the Savonarolan Movement: Custom, People, and Republic in Florence (1494-1513) ... Read more about Giorgio Bottini Mackenzie Cooley Deborah Loeb Brice Fellow Treasury of Knowledge: Medicine in Renaissance Empire ... Read more about Mackenzie Cooley Erin Giffin Robert Lehman Fellow Translating Space: Replicas of the Holy House of Loreto ... Read more about Erin Giffin Bianca Lopez CRIA Fellow The Migrant Plague-Bearers of Late Medieval Italy: The Formation of a Minority Culture ... Read more about Bianca Lopez Edward Loss Jean-François Malle Fellow Women and Institutional Practices of Information Gathering in Fourteenth- and Fifteenth-Century Tuscany ... Read more about Edward Loss Giuseppe Marcellino Ahmanson Fellow Writing History in Renaissance Sicily: Tommaso Fazello and the Discovery of the Past ... Read more about Giuseppe Marcellino Özden Mercan Melville J Kahn Fellow Accommodating Foreigners in Early Modern Mediterranean: Merchants, Migration, and Transfer of Technologies between Tuscany and the Ottoman Empire ... Read more about Özden Mercan Luca Palozzi Rush H Kress Fellow Reappraising Bezalel: Material, Intermedial, and Cross-Cultural Experiments in the Pisano Workshop (1268-1318) ... Read more about Luca Palozzi Maria Pavlova Deborah Loeb Brice Fellow The Ottoman Turks in the Literature and Thought of the Italian Renaissance, 1453-1571 ... Read more about Maria Pavlova Katharina Natalia Piechocki Jean-François Malle Fellow Hercules: Procreative Poetics and the Rise of the Opera Libretto ... Read more about Katharina Natalia Piechocki Enrico Piergiacomi Francesco De Dombrowski Fellow The Pleasures of Piety. The History of a Neglected Religious Tradition ... Read more about Enrico Piergiacomi Christina Schaefer Florence Gould Fellow Experientia feminae: References to Experience in Early Modern Women’s Writing in France and Italy ... Read more about Christina Schaefer Elisa Spataro Hanna Kiel Fellow Landscape in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries: Perspective Machines, Instruments, and Devices for the Mechanical Representation of Nature ... Read more about Elisa Spataro Giovanni Varelli Ahmanson Fellow Processionalia Italica – Music in Motion and the Shaping of Processional Books in Late Medieval and Early Renaissance Italy ... Read more about Giovanni Varelli Post-Doctoral Fellows / Assistants to the Director Thomas Gruber Post-Doctoral Fellow and Assistant to the Director for Publications and Conferences Man as the Centre of the World: Ramon Sibiuda in the European Renaissance ... Read more about Thomas Gruber John Lansdowne Post-Doctoral Fellow and Assistant to the Director for Academic Programs Fraction = Union: The Image of the Ecumenical Church, 1274-1492 ... Read more about John Lansdowne Term Fellows (1st Semester) Paolo Bonora Digital Humanities Fellow RePIM in LOD: The Repertoire of Italian Poetry in Music as Linked Open Dataset (September-December) ... Read more about Paolo Bonora Elisa Antonietta Daniele Berenson Fellow Tobacco, Gold, and Pearls: Performing Natural Resources in Conversion at the Baroque Court in Turin (September-December) ... Read more about Elisa Antonietta Daniele Joseph Gauvreau Graduate Fellow “To the Tune of…”: Contrafacta and the (Re)creation of Meaning through Song in 16th-Century Europe (September-December) ... Read more about Joseph Gauvreau Amanda Hilliam David and Julie Tobey Fellow Mute Eloquence: Drapery in Italian Drawings 1420-1540 (September-December) ... Read more about Amanda Hilliam Mikael Muehlbauer Wallace Fellow Restoring Churches in Occupied Ethiopia: The Appropriation of the Middle Ages in Italian East Africa 1936-1941 (September-December) ... Read more about Mikael Muehlbauer Clara Viloria Hernandez Graduate Fellow Traveling with Theatrical Baggage: Queens, Mobility, Opera and Early Modern Courts (September-December) ... Read more about Clara Viloria Hernandez Giulia Zaccariotto Craig Hugh Smyth Fellow Touching the Relief. Experiencing Medals and Plaquettes through the Sense of Touch (September-December) ... Read more about Giulia Zaccariotto Term Fellows (2nd Semester) Jacques Aymeric Nsangou I Tatti/DHI Rom Joint Fellow for African Studies Material Culture of Fortified Villages during the Slave Trade: A Case Study in Eastern Senegal (Thirteenth to Late-Nineteenth Centuries) (February-June) ... Read more about Jacques Aymeric Nsangou Hollie Buttery Graduate Fellow Drawing Poison: The Invention and Potency of Early Modern Italian Caricature (January-June) ... Read more about Hollie Buttery Amy Chang Graduate Fellow Naming, Natio, & Seeing Style: Linguistic Theory, Architectural Style, & National Identity in the Crown of Castile (January-June) ... Read more about Amy Chang Lisandra Costiner Kress Digital Humanities Fellow Computational Techniques for the Study of Renaissance Artistic Practices (January-June) ... Read more about Lisandra Costiner Lori De Lucia Berenson Fellow Race-making in the Early Modern Mediterranean: The Enslaved Black Communities of Palermo, Sicily (1450-1600) (January-June) ... Read more about Lori De Lucia Cécile Fromont Berenson Fellow Connected by Design: Material and Aesthetic Exchange between Italy and Africa in the Era of the Slave Trade (January-June) ... Read more about Cécile Fromont Eugenio Menegon Berenson Fellow The Invisible City: A Global Microhistory of Italians and Other Europeans in Early Modern Beijing (January-June) ... Read more about Eugenio Menegon Allison Neal Wallace Fellow Florentine Modernism: The American Avant-Garde, Renaissance Art, and the History of the Aesthetic (January-June) ... Read more about Allison Neal Livia Stoenescu I Tatti/Museo Nacional del Prado Joint Fellow Ornament as Sacred Agency in the Architectural Drawings, Paintings, and Polychromatic Sculptures of Alonso Cano (January-June) ... Read more about Livia Stoenescu Valerio Zanetti Warburg/I Tatti Joint Fellow Medicalizing National Characters in Renaissance Europe (January-June) ... Read more about Valerio Zanetti Visiting Professors (1st Semester) Martin Brody Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Visiting Professor “Our Most Important Unofficial Embassy in Europe”: the Cultural Cold War at the American Academy in Rome (September-January) ... Read more about Martin Brody Francesca Fiorani Robert Lehman Visiting Professor Leonardo da Vinci and His Treatise on Painting: Expanding Access of a Web-Based Publication (November-December) ... Read more about Francesca Fiorani Dario Gamboni Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Visiting Professor ‘Aniconism’ and Its Early Modern Sources and Antecedents (October-December) ... Read more about Dario Gamboni Kate Lowe Francesco de Dombrowski Visiting Professor Objects from sub-Saharan Africa in Italian Collections, 1500-1700 (September-December) ... Read more about Kate Lowe Deborah Parker Robert Lehman Visiting Professor Dante in the World (September-November) ... Read more about Deborah Parker Visiting Professors (2nd Semester) Janet Beizer Robert Lehman Harvard Visiting Professor Evolution and Transmutations of the Commedia dell’Arte Harlequin in France through the Nineteenth Century (May-June) ... Read more about Janet Beizer Suzanne Preston Blier Robert Lehman Harvard Visiting Professor 1325: How Medieval Africa Made the World Modern (April-June) ... Read more about Suzanne Preston Blier Timothy Brook Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Visiting Professor John Selden’s Library of the World, 1618-1654 (January-March) ... Read more about Timothy Brook Frank Fehrenbach Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Visiting Professor The Forces of Art in the Italian Renaissance (January-March) ... Read more about Frank Fehrenbach Marc Gotlieb Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Visiting Professor How Artists Die: The Poetics of Mortality in Nineteenth-Century Art (January-June) ... Read more about Marc Gotlieb Stephen Greenblatt Robert Lehman Harvard Visiting Professor The Dark Renaissance (March-April) ... Read more about Stephen Greenblatt Jeffrey Hamburger Robert Lehman Harvard Visiting Professor Drawing Conclusions: Diagrams in Medieval Art and Thought (May-June) ... Read more about Jeffrey Hamburger Estelle Lingo Visiting Professor To Destroy Caravaggio: Art History and the Western Tradition (March-June) ... Read more about Estelle Lingo Stuart Lingo Robert Lehman Visiting Professor Bronzino's Bodies and Mannerism's Masks (January-June) ... Read more about Stuart Lingo Kishwar Rizvi Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Visiting Professor Imagining a World: Artistic and Cultural Encounters in Early Modern Iran (January-February) ... Read more about Kishwar Rizvi Sharon Strocchia Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Visiting Professor Health for Sale: Marketing Medicines in Late Renaissance Italy (April-June) ... Read more about Sharon Strocchia Ramie Targoff Robert Lehman Visiting Professor Shakespeare's Sisters (March-April) ... Read more about Ramie Targoff Director's Appointments Katharine Park Director’s Appointment The Mediterranean Connection: Rewriting the History of Medieval and Renaissance Science and Medicine (September-January) ... Read more about Katharine Park Artists in Residence Benjamin Appl Artist in Residence (October) ... Read more about Benjamin Appl Carola Bauckholt Artist in Residence (October) ... Read more about Carola Bauckholt Thomas Dunford Artist in Residence (October) ... Read more about Thomas Dunford Nurit Stark Artist in Residence (October) ... Read more about Nurit Stark Johanna Weis Artist in Residence Revisiting the Rorschach Test a 100 Years on (October-December) ... Read more about Johanna Weis Research Associates Luciane Beduschi Research Associate Floreat musica: Florentine Renaissance Music and its Sources, 1300-1700 ... Read more about Luciane Beduschi Ludovica Galeazzo Digital Humanities Research Associate Archipelago: Mapping the Islands of the Venetian Lagoon ... Read more about Ludovica Galeazzo Remo Grillo Digital Humanities Research Associate Digital Research Infrastructure for the Humanities ... Read more about Remo Grillo Gianmarco Spinaci Digital Humanities Research Associate Digital Research Infrastructure for the Humanities ... Read more about Gianmarco Spinaci a Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar