Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search I Tatti Council a I TATTI COUNCIL In 1980, I Tatti Director Craig Hugh Smyth formally organized the Harvard Center’s most loyal and generous supporters into the I Tatti Council. In the ensuing decades, remarkable financial contributions from Council members have provided essential support for ongoing programs, new building projects, and endowment growth. Today’s I Tatti Council is an international advisory group chiefly concerned with maintaining I Tatti’s financial strength and helping to broaden its support, as well as taking a close interest in its programs and operations. The Chair of the I Tatti Council is Guillaume Malle, who follows in the footsteps of Susan Mainwaring Roberts, Deborah Loeb Brice, Sydney J. Freedberg, Melvin R. Seiden, and founding chairman, Edmund P. Pillsbury (VIT’68,’69). The I Tatti Council Alina Payne, Director, I Tatti Guillaume Malle, Chair, The I Tatti Council Julie Tobey, Chair, Amici dei Tatti Debby Brice James R. Cherry, Jr. Anne Coffin Anthony M. Cummings Paolo Fresco Frederick S. Koontz Joseph Pellegrino, Jr. Susan M. Roberts Richard K. Ronzetti Neil L. Rudenstine Sydney R. Shuman Angela Weisl Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar