Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search Amici dei Tatti a AMICI DEI TATTI Dear Friends, The Amici dei Tatti (Friends of I Tatti) are a group of steadfast supporters of the Harvard Center in Florence. Through their generosity, and admiration for the scholarly work of I Tatti, they sustain the fellowship program, support the library, and help maintain the landmark buildings and property. The Amici become members of the larger I Tatti community and are kept in touch with events in Florence and elsewhere through the I Tatti newsletter and regular e-bulletins. By choosing to join the Amici dei Tatti with a gift of $600 or more each year, donors are invited to events in Florence, New York, or other locations. We hope you will join the Amici dei Tatti. Through your support and understanding, the study of the Italian Renaissance will continue to flourish in Florence and wherever in the world our Fellows lecture, meet with students, open exhibitions, or engage the minds of those passionate about history, art, literature, music, economics, law, science, religion, and philosophy. With more than 1,000 Fellows scattered across the globe, I Tatti has truly become the international research institute envisioned by Mr. Berenson more than fifty years ago. But like all non-profit institutions engaged in historical studies, I Tatti must always look forward, even while focused on the illustrious past. With your help, we can continue to fulfill and broaden I Tatti’s mission. With many thanks, Julie Tobey Chair, Amici dei Tatti CLICK HERE TO JOIN OR TO RENEW YOUR MEMBERSHIP Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar