Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Home Contact Intranet About Mission Gardens & Grounds Art Collection Newsletter The Berensons Former Appointee Access Villa I Tatti: An Oral History Visitor Information Map & Directions Contact Us News & Events News Events Community Upcoming Appointees Current Appointees Director Staff Former Appointees Former Directors Emeriti Programs Year Fellowship Term Fellowships Visiting Professorships I Tatti Artist in Residence Program Internships and Graduate Fellowships Special Grants for Fellows Home Library Request Access Practical Information Explore Our Collections Using the Collections Catalogs and Research Tools Historical Notes List of Monthly Acquisitions Access Hollis the Harvard Library Catalog Recommend a Library Purchase Publications I Tatti Studies (Journal) I Tatti Research Series I Tatti Renaissance Library I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Bernard Berenson Lectures The Villa I Tatti Series Videos Concerts Interviews with Fellows Public Lectures Masterclasses Support Support Us I Tatti Council Amici dei Tatti Search I Tatti Research Series a I TATTI RESEARCH SERIES The I Tatti Research Series is dedicated to ongoing projects at the Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies. Its volumes expand on themes explored during conferences and seminars and cover a wide spectrum of disciplines including art history, architecture, history, philosophy, literature, music, and the history of science. The series examines all aspects of the Italian Renaissance — broadly understood to include the period from the fourteenth to the seventeenth centuries. At the same time, it investigates dialogues between Renaissance Italy and other regions around the world, in addition to the period’s roots in classical antiquity and its enduring impact on modernity. Assembling essays written by internationally renowned as well as aspiring younger scholars, this peer-reviewed series reflects I Tatti’s ambitious conference and research activities. The Research Series is published in conjunction with Officina Libraria. Outside Italy, its volumes are distributed through Harvard University Press. Casari, Mario, Monica Preti, and Michael Wyatt, ed. 2022. Ariosto and the Arabs: Contexts for the Orlando Furioso. Harvard University Press. Publisher's Version Abstract Among the most dynamic and influential literary texts of the European sixteenth century, Ludovico Ariosto’s Orlando Furioso (1532) emerged from a world whose horizons were rapidly changing. The poem is a prism through which to examine various links in the chain of interactions that characterized the Mediterranean region from late antiquity through the medieval period into early modernity and beyond. Ariosto and the Arabs takes as its point of departure Jorge Luis Borges’s celebrated short poem “Ariosto y los Arabes” (1960), wherein the Furioso acts as the hinge of a past and future literary culture circulating between Europe and the Middle East. The Muslim “Saracen”—protagonist of both historical conflict and cultural exchange—represents the essential “Other” in Ariosto’s work, but Orlando Furioso also engages with the wider network of linguistic, political, and faith communities that defined the Mediterranean basin of its time. The sixteen contributions assembled here, produced by a diverse group of scholars who work on Europe, Africa, and Asia, encompass several intertwined areas of analysis—philology, religious and social history, cartography, material and figurative arts, and performance—to shed new light on the relational systems generated by and illustrative of Ariosto’s great poem. Berbara, Maria, ed. 2022. Sacrifice and Conversion in the Early Modern Atlantic World. Harvard University Press. Publisher's Version Abstract Sacrifice and Conversion in the Early Modern Atlantic World illuminates a particular aspect of the mutual influences between the European invasions of the American continent and the crisis of Christianity during the Reform and its aftermaths: the conceptualization and representation of sacrifice. Because of its centrality in religious practices and systems, sacrifice becomes a crucial way to understand not only cultural exchange, but also the power struggles between American and European societies in colonial times. How do cultures interpret sacrificial practices other than their own? What is the role of these interpretations in conversion? From the central perspective of sacrifice, these essays examine the encounter between European and American sacrificial conceptions—expressed in texts, music, rituals, and images—and their intellectual, cultural, religious, ideological, and artistic derivations. van Orden, Kate, ed. 2021. Seachanges: Music in the Mediterranean and Atlantic Worlds, 1550–1800. Harvard University Press. Publisher's Version Bolzoni, Lina, and Alina Payne, ed. 2018. The Renaissance in the 19th Century. Revision, Revival, and Return. Harvard University Press. Publisher's Version Abstract This volume examines the Italian Renaissance revival as a Pan-European phenomenon of critique, commentary and re-shaping of a nineteenth-century present perceived a deeply problematic. Sweeping the humanistic disciplines—history, literature, music, art, architecture, collecting etc—This phenomenon located between historical nostalgia and critique of the contemporary world marked the oeuvre of as diverse a group of figures as Jean August Dominique Ingres and EM Forster, Heinrich Geymüller and Adolf von Hildebrand, Jules Michelet and Jacob Burckhardt, H.H. Richardson and Rainer Maria Rilke, Giosuè Carducci and Francesco de Sanctis. Though some perceived it as a “Golden Age”, a model for the present, some cast it as a negative example, contrasting the resurgence of the arts with the decadence of society and the loss of an ethical and political conscience thus revealing that the triumphalist model had its detractors and that the reaction to the Renaissance was more complex than it may at first appear. Through a series of essays by a group of international scholars the volume recovers some of the multi-dimensionality of the reaction to, transformation of and commentary on the Italian Renaissance and its ties to nineteenth-century modernity, as seen both from within (by Italians) and from without (by foreigners, expatriates, travellers, scholars etc). The essays seek out the connections between the Italian Renaissance and the nineteenth-century present, comparing different visions and interpretations and bringing out the characteristic features of the phenomenon: from the reformation of Italian history in popular culture to the interest in the strong personalities of literature, from artistic ambitions to recreate Renaissance architectural works to the fascination with Giotto and fifteenth-century Florence. Lina Bolzoni is professor of Italian Literature at Scuola Normale Superiore. At the Scuola Normale Superiore she is a founding director of the Centre for Data Processing of Texts and Images in Literary Tradition. Alina Payne is Alexander P. Misheff Professor of History of Art and Architecture at Harvard University and Paul E. Geier Director of Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies in Florence. 4e4f6afb7e834846cf9e731680adb3c0 Subscribe Click here to subscribe to the I Tatti News and Events Mailing List I Tatti is happy to announce that reservations to use the Berenson Library are no longer required as of Monday, January 31, 2022. Library users must be in possession of a “Super Green Pass” (Green Pass Rafforzato) and wear a facemask within the library at all times. For more information, click here. Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies | Via di Vincigliata 26, 50135 Florence, Italy © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility | Map | VIT ID | Webmail | Intranet 55815434b029c8e99d3a61cca4d789bf 4d1df07819e4f375a4710b157bd2ebce 84ff63a49a5763587f19a8a541be03b0 Admin Login OpenScholar