Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Institute for Theory and Computation Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics Calendar Contact Search HOME About Director's Welcome Computing Resources Support the ITC Contact People Events ITC Luncheons ITC Seminar ITC Colloquia ITC Pizza Lunches ITC Special Seminars Sackler Conference ITC Reception ITC Soccer ITC Social Events Keto Award Media Research Galaxies & Cosmology Gravity High Energy Astrophysics Planetary Astronomy Stars Publications Opportunities Predoctoral Fellowships Postdoctoral Fellowships Sabbatical Visitors Seminar Speakers News Alumni Boryana Hadzhiyska wins the 2022 Eric R. Keto Prize! The Keto Prize is awarded for the best thesis in theoretical astrophysics by a student at the CfA. An Exceptional Research Center The mission of the ITC is to advance our knowledge and understanding of the universe through computational and analytical means, Exceptional Postdoctoral Fellows Welcoming the Class of 2021 ITC Postdocs Exceptional Career Results Review the remarkable success rate of our postdoctoral placements Exceptional Postdoc Research ITC Postdoc Shmuel Bialy new research "Gigantic Cavity in Space Sheds New Light on How Stars Form" Exceptional Faculty Research ITC Senior Faculty Member Daniel Eisenstein leads research on N-body simulations Exceptional Computational Resources ITC researchers have access to cutting-edge computational resources. Former ITC Postdoc Cora Dvorkin Digs Into the History of the Cosmos Former ITC Postdoc Cora Dvorkin, now Associate Professor of Physics at Harvard, is featured in today's Gazette. Congratulations to Former ITC Postdoc Blakesley Burkhart for winning a 2020 Packard Fellowship! 2020 Gruber Prize in Cosmology has been awarded to Harvard's Lars Hernquist and Volker Springel (MPI) Former ITC postdoc Smadar Naoz (UCLA) wins the 2020 Helen B. Warner Prize Nobel Laureate Rai Weiss and ITC Director Avi Loeb Q & A Prior to the ITC Luncheon on February 15, 2018, Nobel Laureate Rai Weiss and ITC Director Avi Loeb engaged in a Q & A session. An Exceptional Sabbatical Experience An interview with Mikhail Medvedev The Institute for Theory and Computation The mission of the ITC is to advance our knowledge and understanding of the universe through computational and analytical means, to create a forum for exploration and discoveries in theoretical astrophysics, and to train the next generation of astrophysicists. Read More about the ITC Mission. Recent News Boryana Hadzhiyska wins the 2022 Eric R. Keto Prize! Thursday, April 21, 2022 Congrats to ITC Postdoc Rahal Kannan for being part of the team! Thursday, March 24, 2022 Exceptional research by ITC Fellow Kareem El-Badry Monday, January 31, 2022 More Upcoming Events 2022 Jun 02 ITC Colloquium - Anastasia Fialkov (Cambridge) 11:00am to 12:00pm Institute for Theory and Computation Center for Astrophysics - Harvard-Smithsonian 60 Garden St., MS 51 Cambridge, MA 02138 itcinfo@cfa.harvard.edu 617-495-1971(Map) Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics Harvard University astronomers and Smithsonian Institution astronomers explore the cosmos together. The combination of the Harvard College Observatory (HCO) and the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) is known as the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA). https://www.facebook.com/theoreticalastrophysics/ https://twitter.com/HarvardITC Visitor Information Resources Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA) Harvard College Observatory (HCO) Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) Follow the ITC on YouTube 82199bfb0a34671b6f927b4f05ec6c8d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement