Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Manage your identity Explore use of digital identity wallets Explore use of digital identity wallets June 30, 2021 — Participation in the live demo is now closed. This page remains in place to maintain the instructions used for a limited availability proof-of-concept demonstration of digital identity wallets conducted during Spring quarter 2021. The demo was only available to limited audiences in the UW community. To participate in future activities , contact help@uw.edu with “digital identity wallet demo” in the email subject. Follow these steps to try the demo: StepsActions In your browser, go to identity.uw.edu. Sign in with your UW NetID, as usual. Select the “Labs” tab at the top. Select the “Self Sovereign Identity Lab”. Note: if this lab or the tab isn’t displayed to you, it means you’re not (yet) participating in the limited availability proof-of-concept demo. A note about how to participate is included at the top of this page. Now pause… and note that the demo is organized as four major steps, as follows. Step 1: download and install Connect.Me wallet to your mobile device. Connect.Me on the Apple Store Connect.Me on Google Play Critical – during installation make sure that “Use Staging Net” is toggled ON. This setting is critical because the demo relies on the Sovrin Staging Net to find and resolve the decentralized identifiers (DIDs) involved in and underlying the demo (and the demo gods are rarely kind to those who miss critical instructions). Step 2: Make a connection between your wallet and the UW. In your browser, select the “Generate QR Code” button. On your device, open the Connect.Me app. In Connect.Me, tap the “Scan” button (bottom right). Use the app to scan the QR code. Wait a sec… Accept the connection with UW. Optional – tap the hamburger icon and select “My Connections” to confirm that you now have your first “connection” registered in your wallet; it’s like connecting in the real world, kinda neat on its own but more likely to lead to the question “now what do we do?” Step 3: Now you can proceed to accept a credential issued by the UW. In your browser, select the “Issue Credentials” button. Wait a sec… In Connect.Me, accept the credential offer from the UW. Optional – tap the hamburger icon and select “My Credentials” to view the credential stored in your wallet. The credential contains attributes based on this credential definition which in turn is based on this credential schema. Step 4: Provide proof of credentials. In your browser, select the “Provide proof” button. Note: for this step, you might use your imagination to pretend as if you had first browsed to some other website that requires proof of credentials. The demo is set up with Identity.UW playing the role of both issuer and verifier of the credential. Normally, the issuer, holder (you and your wallet), and verifier of the credential would be different parties. Wait a sec… In Connect.Me, tap “Share Attributes” to respond to the proof request from the UW. In your browser, select the “Claim Prize” button. If you attended the 2019 Student TechExpo (yes, IRL, when campus was open) and you tapped your Husky Card at the table hosted by UW-IT Identity & Access Management, your credential will include an “offereditem” attribute that makes you eligible for a prize (🎊). For others the “offereditem” attribute is none, and you’ll receive only our gratitude and congratulations. Congratulations! You’ve completed the Self Sovereign Identity demo! Last reviewed June 30, 2021 Tags: digital walletverifiable credentials See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Manage your identity Set your pronouns in Identity.UW Pronouns feedback Learn more about pronoun indicators Integrate pronouns from Identity.UW UW announces preferred names in 2016 Preferred name guideline Explore use of digital identity wallets My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA