Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect IT at the UW – Staff Quick-Start Guide IT at the UW View our quick-start guides about the technology tools and resources available at the UW. Students Staff Faculty Visitors Need help? Email: help@uw.edu Phone: 206-221-5000 Online: Help form In-person: Locations More info IT at the UW – Staff Quick-Start Guide Related Information Technology for working remotely UW Information Technology (UW-IT) provides computing and information technology services to increase productivity, facilitate collaboration and support your work. Use this guide to find technology resources available to you, and check with your local IT department for their technology recommendations and guidelines. Get connected & communicate Set up your workstation Productivity & Collaboration Tools Working remotely Practice safe computing Technology services and support Workday and the Integrated Service Center Emergency preparedness Technology training and events Accessible IT Research computing Get connected & communicate Set up your email and voicemail, connect to resources on the UW network, set up your UW NetID and two-factor authentication (2FA), learn about managed workstations, and conferencing options. UW NetID and 2FA Your personal UW NetID and password provide access to many UW online services, including MyUW and UW Email. Your UW NetID verifies who you are, ensures the privacy of your personal information, and restricts the use of UW resources to authorized users. Two-factor authentication (2FA) adds a layer of security when you sign in with your UW NetID. With 2FA, first you enter your password, then use a 2FA device to prove it’s really you. 2FA is required to sign into Workday Connect to UW networks Wireless internet access is available throughout most buildings on campus and some outdoor areas around campus. Eduroam is a free encrypted Wi-Fi network that offers more security than the unencrypted general purpose University of Washington Wi-Fi network. Eduroam provides access to the internet at the UW and at any eduroam-enabled institution in the United States and around the world. Set up your email and reduce junk mail Staff have two basic options for email—UW Gmail or UW Exchange Online. Check with your team to see if they recommend one over the other for work. Also consider if you need an email account that is both FERPA and HIPAA compliant: Which email service should you use?. Reduce junk mail by setting up a spam filter. Set up your phone and voicemail Learn how to use your phone and the features available on various models of phones available on campus phones or order a new phone from UW-IT. Set up your voicemail and learn how to access your messages from anywhere you have access to a telephone. Video and audio conferencing You have a variety of options for video and audio conferencing. Find the conferencing option that works best for your needs. Set up your workstation Configure your workstation, download software and productivity tools to help your work, and learn how to get support for your computer. Get software Acquire software and hardware for your studies, work and research at reduced or no cost to you. Managed workstations Your workspace may use centrally managed workstations offered through UW-IT. Review information about working with managed workstations. Productivity & collaboration tools Collaborate with your coworkers and peers, and find tools that can increase your productivity, efficiency, and help you stay organized. UW G Suite offers UW students, faculty and staff numerous apps; UW Gmail for email and calendaring, Drive for document storage, Google Docs, Sheets and Slides for collaboration, and Sites for web publishing. UW G Suite is similar to Google’s consumer apps, but free of advertising and with greater privacy protection. UW Office 365 offers UW students, faculty and staff a collection of online email, productivity, and collaboration services; Exchange Online and Outlook Web App for email, Office Online for productivity, including Word, Powerpoint, Excel, and OneNote. OneDrive for Business provides ample cloud storage, and Microsoft Teams for communication. Working remotely Get your work done from home, on the road, or wherever works for you. Access university data from off campus, and prepare for business disruptions. Connect to resources on the UW network using Husky OnNet, which provides individual users with a secure temporary connection to the UW network from remote locations. If you access UW resources from off campus through a remote desktop or network file-sharing application, you will be required to first use a UW or UW Medicine secure virtual private network (VPN) service, such as Husky OnNet. Use the Networks Portal tool to see if you are on a UW network If you use a managed workstation, you can remotely access your email and calendar, connect remotely to your managed workstation, and connect to services on the UW Network with the managed workstation VPN service. Read more about connecting remotely to managed workstations. Store important documentations in the cloud, or on a file service you can access from remote locations. The UW offers several options, including UW Google Drive, UW OneDrive for Business, and the U Drive. Practice safe computing Protect your computer, identity and privacy. Download free antivirus software, and learn how to protect yourself on the web. Staff receive a free license to use Sophos Antivirus Software on University-owned computers and on their personal computers, either on campus or at home. Use safe email practices, and report any abuse, harassment or suspicious email. Be mindful of phishing attempts, and follow the best practices to avoid phishing scams recommended by the Office of the Chief Information Security Officer. Understand appropriate use governing the use of UW computing and networking resources. Technology services and support Discover the many services and technologies offered by UW-IT to the UW community, and learn how to get help with your technology needs. Service Catalog Find out about services provided to the University by UW-IT, including those that are covered by the Technology Recharge Fee . Data and analytics When having the right data counts, take advantage of resources available through UW-IT. Leverage information from the UW to aid your work or research. Data from around the University is combined in the Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW), the University’s major repository of institutional data. From this data, reports and analytics are created to uncover trends and patterns to support informed business decisions. We offer a selection of data products and services that are geared toward helping you achieve more with analytics. Technology support & computer care Technology support is available in several forms around campus, including by phone, email, or in person. The Computer Vet provides assistance with installing software, operating system updates and running anti-virus and anti-malware products. You can find many self-help solutions on this site, IT Connect. Workday and the Integrated Service Center Workday is the centralized, cloud-based software program the UW uses to manage human resources, time-tracking, payroll, and benefits processes across the UW. Learn how to use Workday. Get help by contacting the Integrated Service Center Emergency preparedness Be prepared for the unexpected and during large-scale disruptions to campus operations. Be informed about events on campus via text message and email Sign up for UW Alert and receive alerts about emergencies on campus. Prepare for business disruptions and continue your work or sustain your department’s operations from remote locations. Technology training and events Learn new skills and expand your areas of expertise. Attend training workshops, or learn at your own pace with online tutorials. Attend communities of practice to connect with your peers. Take advantage of free technology training at the UW, including free workshops. Find out about communities of practice and upcoming events. Accessible IT People using UW services and websites have a wide range of abilities and use many different technologies. The UW offers many options for accessible information technology. Find resources to ensure technology works for everyone. Learn how to create and procure accessible IT Explore resources on how to produce accessible websites, documents and media to comply with UW and Washington state’s policy on IT accessibility . Research Computing Accelerate your research. UW-IT collaborates with partners across the UW to support world-class research with up-to-date tools and resources capable of handling your research needs. Explore the research computing resources available and take advantage of one-on-one consultation and expert computing advice. Find out about Hyak, the UW’s on-site supercomputer, and cloud computing solutions. Last reviewed September 16, 2020 See a problem on this page? Let us know. My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA