Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Phones Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewer Home Phones ADA Compliant Equipment Affiliated Organizations Campus Phones 6400 and 8400 Telephone Features 9408 Deskphone 9608/9611G Deskphones Avaya Workplace Softphone Campus Dial Tone Features Yealink W56P Conferencing – audio/video Conferencing Services UW Zoom Video Conferencing Customer Purchased Equipment Dialing Procedures Local Dialing Changes Long Distance Calling Directory Listings Extension Connect Interactive Voice Response (IVR) [RETIRED] Policies and Procedures Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewer Telecommuter VoIP Text Messaging Cadence Enterprise Texting Platform UW Telephone Service Basics Centralized Fax Service – Frequently Asked Questions Voicemail System Voice Mail Menus Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewer ITBill Viewer UW-IT is migrating to a new billing system, and future billing details will be available on the new system. Effective January 5th 2022: For new ISDs starting with UT1xxxxx, use the new ITBill Viewer for ITBill – Bill Summaries or ITBill – Bill Details For archived ISDs starting with UT8xxxxx, continue to use ROME TSEBill Viewer MyFD Reconciliation form also takes you to the bill viewer links by clicking on the Amount of the transaction. Info about the new IT Billing system About the Technology Services and Equipment Bill (TSEBill) Viewing Application Get Access to Rome Applications Using TSEBill Bill Summary View Tips for Navigating Bills Preferences—Turn Email Notification On/Off FAQ Billing Questions About the Technology Services and Equipment Bill (TSEBill) The Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewing application (TSEBill) provides: Online delivery of bills for Technology Services and Equipment Bills in a variety of formats for the most recent billing cycle as well as for previous months Records retention online for six years Email notification to authorized users when the monthly billing has been created and is available to view on the Web TSEBill allows you to: View summaries of all equipment bills View the detail of each billing entry Sort bill detail by field Export to PDF or Excel Print detail either in the current format of the paper bill or in a one authorization per page format Get Access StepsActions To begin using Rome applications (Long Distance Services, Long Distance Billing, and Technology Services and Equipment Billing) you need a UW NetID . If you don’t have a UW NetID , learn about Accounts and Passwords on the About UW NetIDs pages In addition, you need to be authorized in ASTRA with the role of USER. The LDServices application requires a separate Astra authorization from the Bill Viewer authorization: The Rome role of ‘Long Distance Services Account Manager’ gives you ‘view and update’ into the LDServices pages for the given budgets or organization codes The Rome role of ‘Bill Reviewer’ gives you ‘inquiry’ into both the TSEBill and the LDBill for the given budgets or organization codes. Contact the ASTRA authorizer for your unit to request authorization to use Rome. If you do not know who to contact, use ASTRA’s “Who Can Authorize Me?” look-up service and search by budget number or org code; then select “Rome” from the application dropdown. You will receive an automated email message letting you know your authorization to use Rome has been processed. Once you are authorized, go to: Technology Services and Equipment Bill: https://rome.cac.washington.edu/TSEBill Long Distance Billing: https://rome.cac.washington.edu/LDBill Long Distance Services: https://rome.cac.washington.edu/LDServices Troubleshooting Occasionally a security certificate error will show up on the screen at this point. If you receive an error message saying: “There is a problem with this Web site’s security certificate”, go to Install the UW Services CA Certificate. and follow the instructions for installing the UW Services Certificate Authority. Try accessing the site again. For ASTRA Authorizers: How to set up ASTRA Authorizations You ‘must’ setup the ‘Astra Role of ‘USER’ for this person to have access to the Rome Web pages. You have the option of also granting the role of Authorizer but that only controls the actions that people can do in Astra, not what they can do in the Rome applications. For Bill Reviewer: For Long Distance Services: Using TSE Bill You will see a menu near the top left of the screen that says “TSE Bill” followed by a red arrow – hover over the red arrow to see your menu options: Choose “Bill Summaries”. View Bills—Bill Summaries Select the Bill Year and Month from the list and “Go” You now have new “Aggregate Totals” displayed. The “Aggregate Totals” display Total Charges for all the budgets that are “possible for you to see” when the Filter (to the left) has been cleared, and another amount for Total Filtered Charges. This 2nd amount will be less than the Total Charges if you have “Applied a Filter” to narrow the list. The PDF and Excel formats will always use the Filter when it has been applied. Use the PDF or Excel icon to see the Filtered list of bills in either PDF format or an Excel spreadsheet. Click on the “magnifying glass” to display the details of the selected charge. Your display will then look like this: When your full list of budgets has detail lines totaling more than 20,000 records, the PDF or Excel icons are not displayed. It would take several minutes to read the records and present the data. You should use the Organization code Filter to narrow down your list of budgets to a more reasonable size for rendering the PDF or for extracting to an Excel spreadsheet. View Bills—Bill Viewer Choose Bill Viewer. Select the Year and Month from the list, enter a budget, and “Go. You will see a detailed list of bills for that budget. You can export the data in two different formats: Excel spreadsheet or PDF The Filter Billing Detail section shows a list of the various Service Categories that are included in the bill (i.e., budget) that you are currently viewing. Tips for Navigating Bills When you click the magnifying glass (View Bill Detail) from the Bill Summaries screen, TSEBill will display the billing detail, the Bill Viewer screen. You can narrow your selection by Year-Month and Budget Number, as well as by Service: If you choose a budget number from the drop-down list on the Bill Viewer screen, it is possible that the budget you choose won’t have any data associated with it and you will get an error that says “no data was found”. To avoid choosing budgets that have no associated data, keep the “Bill Summaries” page open at the same time. Navigate back to the “Bill Summaries” page using the browser’s back button or click “Bill Summaries” under the “Services and Equipment Billing” menu near the top left of the page. To view the billing detail in another browser tab, use the “right click” on the magnifying glass link on the “Summaries” page and choose “Open in new tab” or “Open in new window” from the pop-up menu. This allows you to keep the Bill Summaries page handy while you are looking at the billing detail for each budget. Some Web browsers allow you to middle click the link to open it in a new tab as well. Preferences—Email Notification Use the “Preferences” screen to opt-in or out from receiving email when the new Technology Services and Equipment Bill is available online. You can also enter an alternate email address to receive notifications, instead of your regular email address. To opt-out, uncheck the Receive Notifications box. FAQ Partial Month Charge The Service Order Activity prorates the first month that the item goes on the bill and the last month when the item is disconnected. The Description gives the duration as number of Months + number of days. Months are always based on 30 days. Prorate Calculation: Monthly Rate / 30days = daily rate Daily-rate X quantity X number-of-days X percent = Partial Month Charge (or Credit) Budget % When the percent is not 100%, it is referred to as a Split Budget. You will see only the portion that is allocated to this budget. The remainder of the charge is allocated to one or more other budgets, as requested by your department. Each unique line item is defined by the combination of: Dept-Id, Station Line, Tariff Code. The percentages across one or more budgets always add up to 100%. Each Disconnect has two parts Each item that was billed in prior months is listed in the Recurring section and will show the full month charge for this period. In addition, a disconnect would show as a “Remove” of this line item in the Prorated section, with a credit amount or zero amount. The First bill month The first month that an item is added, you will only see it in the Prorated section. The Partial Month Charge will be calculated from the Completion Date through the end of this billing month. You will not see it in the Recurring section until the subsequent month. Why does the Bill Summary page sometimes not show the PDF and Excel icons?” When your full list of budgets has detail lines totaling more than 20,000 records, we do not show the PDF or Excel icons because it would take several minutes to read the records and present the data. You should use the Organization code Filter to narrow down your list of budgets to a more reasonable size for rendering the PDF or for extracting to an Excel spreadsheet. Billing Questions If you have billing questions, please send email to uwit-billing@uw.edu. For details on how to request a refund from UW-IT, read our Customer Refund Policy. See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Phones ADA Compliant Equipment Affiliated Organizations Campus Phones 6400 and 8400 Telephone Features 9408 Deskphone 9608/9611G Deskphones Avaya Workplace Softphone Campus Dial Tone Features Yealink W56P Conferencing – audio/video Conferencing Services UW Zoom Video Conferencing Customer Purchased Equipment Dialing Procedures Local Dialing Changes Long Distance Calling Directory Listings Extension Connect Interactive Voice Response (IVR) [RETIRED] Policies and Procedures Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewer Telecommuter VoIP Text Messaging Cadence Enterprise Texting Platform UW Telephone Service Basics Centralized Fax Service – Frequently Asked Questions Voicemail System Voice Mail Menus My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA