Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Phones UW Telephone Service Basics Home Phones ADA Compliant Equipment Affiliated Organizations Campus Phones 6400 and 8400 Telephone Features 9408 Deskphone 9608/9611G Deskphones Avaya Workplace Softphone Campus Dial Tone Features Yealink W56P Conferencing – audio/video Conferencing Services UW Zoom Video Conferencing Customer Purchased Equipment Dialing Procedures Local Dialing Changes Long Distance Calling Directory Listings Extension Connect Interactive Voice Response (IVR) [RETIRED] Policies and Procedures Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewer Telecommuter VoIP Text Messaging Cadence Enterprise Texting Platform UW Telephone Service Basics Centralized Fax Service – Frequently Asked Questions Voicemail System Voice Mail Menus Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT UW Telephone Service Basics Dial Tone is the solid sound heard when the telephone handset is picked up or the speakerphone is on, indicating the line is in-service and ready to place a call. UW Phone Lines use three types of technologies; analog, digital, and VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol). All UW sites have analog service but not all have digital and VOIP. UW IT connects the type of service based on the facilities available in your building. Service and equipment must be of the same technology as the line they are being connected to. Analog lines translate audio signals into electronic pulses. Referred to as single or POTS (Plain Old Telephone Service) lines, are the most common type of landlines in residences and small businesses. They support such services as analog and cordless telephone sets, fax machines, modems, credit card machines, and alarm services. Note that cordless phones described as digital refers to the signaling between the handset and base, not the type of line needed for the service. They are analog and must be connected to an analog line. All analog equipment must be provided by the department (a.k.a. Customer Provide Equipment /CPE) Digital lines change audio signals into binary code. Sometimes referred to as multi-line services, allow for advanced phone features such as the ability to answer multiple phone lines for multiple phone numbers on a single set. VOIP lines convert analog voice signals into digital data packets and supports real-time, 2-way transmission of conversations using Internet Protocol (IP). They support multi-line services with advanced phone features as digital lines such as the ability to answer multiple phone lines for multiple phone numbers on a single set. Telephone Service Order Requests are handled by UW IT, including new installations, moves, changes, and disconnections of existing services. Contact UW IT, 7-10 business days prior to your desired effective date. UW IT provides digital/VoIP telephone sets as appropriate, to use those services ordered. Departments must provide analog equipment (telephone, fax machines, credit card machines, etc.) as well as the cord to connect the equipment to the wall jack. Services continue to be active and billed until UW IT receives a request to disconnect. Departments are responsible for reviewing their billing monthly for accuracy. Errors should be reported as soon as possible. Credits will not be made for more than three months. Troubleshooting Phone Problems Trouble: Action: If Not Resolved Have dial tone but can’t answer/calls answered at a different number Calls may be forwarded to another number. Pick up handset, dial *73 to cancel call forwarding. Try action for hearing a short ring. If still not working, contact UW IT. Have dial tone, hear a short ring but can’t answer calls Send All Calls (SAC) feature may be activated. Deactivate but depressing pre-programmed SAC button or enter *78. Try action for calls answered at a different number. If still not working, contact UW IT. Have dial tone but the phone doesn’t ring Analog phones must to be set to tone vs. pulse. Normally the set has a switch. Analog phones usually have a volume control button, slider, or wheel. Check your manual (often found online by brand and model) Digital and VoIP sets have up and down volume control buttons/levers on the base of the phone Departments must replace analog sets. If you have questions, contact UW IT. Contact UW IT for additional help resolving digital and VoIP trouble. No dial tone Verify cord is securely connected to phone and active wall jack. Verify handset cord is securely connected to phone and handset. If your set has a speakerphone, verify whether or not you can hear dial tone through it. For digital and analog sets, try the phone set in another wall jack that you know is working for the same type of line. For analog sets, a fax line can be used. For VoIP sets, unplug the cord from the back of the set for a minute, then plug the phone back in to reboot it If your set works in another location but not yours, contact UW IT. Departments must replace analog sets that do not work. If you have questions, contact UW IT. Contact UW IT for additional help resolving digital and VoIP trouble. Cordless phone doesn’t work Require batteries. Replace or recharge them. Verify the power cord is plugged in. Verify the phone cord is plugged into both the phone base and wall jack, and the power cord is connected. Test wall jack by connecting another known working analog phone to it Note that the range of use for cordless phone signal depends on the environment it’s used in. If neither set works in the same wall jack, contact UW IT. If the known working phone works in the jack, the cordless phone is the problem. Report Trouble to UW-IT. An analyst will assist with various troubleshooting steps and check your line on our end. Technicians dispatched for repair, may be charged to the department if the trouble is not found in UW IT equipment or facilities. Last reviewed February 14, 2019 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Phones ADA Compliant Equipment Affiliated Organizations Campus Phones 6400 and 8400 Telephone Features 9408 Deskphone 9608/9611G Deskphones Avaya Workplace Softphone Campus Dial Tone Features Yealink W56P Conferencing – audio/video Conferencing Services UW Zoom Video Conferencing Customer Purchased Equipment Dialing Procedures Local Dialing Changes Long Distance Calling Directory Listings Extension Connect Interactive Voice Response (IVR) [RETIRED] Policies and Procedures Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewer Telecommuter VoIP Text Messaging Cadence Enterprise Texting Platform UW Telephone Service Basics Centralized Fax Service – Frequently Asked Questions Voicemail System Voice Mail Menus My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA