Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Teaching and Learning Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Home Teaching and Learning Student and Instructor Success Analytics Analytics Strategy Success Analytics Apps Data Science Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching during the pandemic UW-IT JupyterHub for Teaching Canvas Learning Management System Catalyst Web Tools Enterprise Training & Management System (Bridge) GradePage MyPlan Academic Planner MyUW Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture Pivot Advising Tool Poll Everywhere Prereq Map Scout™ Splunk Classroom Response Systems Create accessible documents, websites, and videos Supported browsers Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours 3D Printing & Consultation Technology Training LinkedIn Learning Equipment Tutorials Prepare for when classes can’t meet Accessible Information Technology Access Technology Center Classroom Furniture and Equipment Teaching and Learning Research 2020 UW-IT Survey on Researchers’ IT Needs Participate in pilots of new technologies Using Data to Support Teaching & Learning During a Pandemic Teaching and Learning Stories Profiles of Technology Use Teaching Guides Technology Keys Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Classroom Computers Mary Gates Hall Computer Classrooms Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Library Sound Studio Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Go to the Workshop and Office Hours Events Calendar Teaching with Technology Workshops and Office Hours Learning Technologies offers free workshops to current UW faculty and staff for core UW teaching tools: Canvas, Panopto Lecture Capture, Poll Everywhere Classroom Response and Zoom Video Conferencing. You can also sign up for one of our online Office Hours sessions to get realtime guidance with these tools. If you are interested in exploring these tools at your own pace, we encourage to click on the links to the specific services listed above, or check out our Teaching with UW Technologies resource in Canvas. As always, if you need assistance with any of our teaching and learning tools, you can email help@uw.edu, call us at (206) 221.5000 (Option 3), or drop by Odegaard Library Room 230. Partnerships Our colleagues at UW Continuum College have opened their workshops and office hours to all UW Faculty and Staff. They offer training on Canvas, Zoom, and other UW tools, with a particular focus on pedagogy and instructional design. If you’re looking for additional structured trainings or a chance to attend office hours with an Instructional Designer, they are happy to help. UW Libraries’ Open Scholarships Commons also provides workshops and other events and support for a variety of academic and creative tools. Please see their Events Calendar for more information. Productivity and Creativity We also provide free workshops for all current UW students, faculty and staff to develop skills with creative tools like Adobe InDesign, Photoshop and Audacity, or Digital Video Editing systems like Adobe Premiere and iMovie, as well as digital productivity software like Microsoft Excel, “R” and R Studio (when available). Office hours for some of these tools are offered. On-demand Tutorial Videos Each video or video playlist requires a UW NetID login to watch. Beginning Excel Videos – This collection of 8 videos (3 to 8 minutes each) covers basic operations and usage of Excel. This is meant for beginners or those needing a refresher. The total running time is approximately 48 minutes. Photoshop Fundamentals – This collection of 10 videos (2 to 10 minutes each) goes over the essentials for getting started with Adobe Photoshop. This is meant for beginners or those needing a refresher. The total running time is approximately 50 minutes. Audacity – This recording of an Audacity Workshop goes over the basic operations of this tool for the purposes of making podcasts. The total running time is approximately 65 minutes. iMovie – This recording of an iMovie Workshop discusses the fundamentals of getting started with iMovie. This video is meant for those just getting started with iMovie or video editing in general. The total running time is approximately 47 minutes. Check back to this page for updates and additional on-demand videos. Learning Technologies Workshop and Office Hours Calendar Please use your UW email address to register. Note: currently, all Teaching Technologies Office Hours will be held over Zoom. Workshops and other events may be held in Odegaard Library or online over Zoom. Please refer to the Location column of each event to confirm the modality in which it will be held. In-person events will have the building listed in this column. Links to the Zoom meetings for any online sessions are listed in this column and will also be provided when you register. If you’re interested in one of our workshops but can’t find a time that fits your schedule, we’re happy to arrange a one-on-one consultation to address your needs. To schedule, contact help@uw.edu and let us know which workshop you are interested in, along with some dates and times that work for you. Main Calendar View If you are unable to view the workshops above, please see the calendar here. Watch this video to learn more about our workshops. Last reviewed September 11, 2019 Tags: Technology TrainingTrainingWorkshops See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Teaching and Learning Student and Instructor Success Analytics Analytics Strategy Success Analytics Apps Data Science Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching during the pandemic UW-IT JupyterHub for Teaching Canvas Learning Management System Catalyst Web Tools Enterprise Training & Management System (Bridge) GradePage MyPlan Academic Planner MyUW Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture Pivot Advising Tool Poll Everywhere Prereq Map Scout™ Splunk Classroom Response Systems Create accessible documents, websites, and videos Supported browsers Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours 3D Printing & Consultation Technology Training LinkedIn Learning Equipment Tutorials Prepare for when classes can’t meet Accessible Information Technology Access Technology Center Classroom Furniture and Equipment Teaching and Learning Research 2020 UW-IT Survey on Researchers’ IT Needs Participate in pilots of new technologies Using Data to Support Teaching & Learning During a Pandemic Teaching and Learning Stories Profiles of Technology Use Teaching Guides Technology Keys Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Classroom Computers Mary Gates Hall Computer Classrooms Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Library Sound Studio My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA