Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Enterprise Data Services Reporting and Analytics Home Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Request Access to Reports, Analytics, and Data DAC and SMAT Enterprise Data Warehouse Help: Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Swagger: Interactive API Documentation Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Data Cubes Data Visualizations (Tableau) Help: Reports and Analytics Reports Understand Data EDW Data Models Term and Data Definitions (Knowledge Navigator) Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Reporting and Analytics UW-IT Service Catalog Reporting and Analytics With the BI Portal and UW Profiles, users gain access to UW data through dozens of customizable reports and data visualizations. You can use these off-the-shelf tools to answer the most common questions with data from key subject areas including Student, Finance, HR/Payroll, and Research Administration. You can also connect to and explore multi-dimensional data cubes. Unlike a report that displays data across 2 dimensions, a cube is a powerful data analysis tool that allows users to slice and dice data across multiple dimensions. While you can browse the catalog of reporting and analytics tools with your UW netid, you need an ASTRA role and permission to access reports, visualizations, and cubes on the BI Portal or UW Profiles. Connect to Data: BI Portal The feature-packed Business Intelligence (BI) Portal is your one-stop catalog, connecting you to UW’s Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) central reports and visualizations. BI Portal UW Profiles UW Profiles is a set of Web-based dashboards designed to provide University decision-makers with a dynamic way to easily access, explore, and understand UW data. UW Profiles Knowledge Navigator Knowledge Navigator is a web application that allows UW data users to search, find and understand the data and reports they use to do their work. Knowledge Navigator Request Access Follow this link to get or update your permissions so you can begin exploring and understanding UW enterprise data. Request Access Attend a Reporting and Analytics Webinar! Enterprise Reporting and Analytics hosts monthly webinars to help users understand the data products we support. These webinars are free and open to the Enterprise Data User Community. Follow the link to learn more about the BI Webinar Series, and to sign up for invites to upcoming webinars on the data products you use. Sign Up BI Office Hours Please join us for one-on-one help during our BI Office Hours every Friday from 9 to 10. You can either sign up Sign up – BI Office Hours or you can drop by at any time during the session. Drop by – BI Office Hours Reporting and Analytics News BI Portal Version 2: BI Portal and UW Profiles redesign and consolidation – release in June! May. 25, 2022 Current Status: Team approved a release of the BI Portal (version 2) for early June,… UW Country Names and Codes Report Apr. 04, 2022 We are happy to announce that you can now access a UW-approved list of country… RPG Release: Updated Departmental GPA calculation on several reports Feb. 04, 2022 Based on this user feedback, the Report Prioritization Group released several important and timely updates… Next page Need help? Here’s how to contact us: Email: help@uw.edu See a problem on this page? Let us know. My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA