Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Software & Hardware Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage for Users Home Online storage Storage Quotas U Drive: Central File Storage for Users U Drive slow to open and save MS Word Documents for some clients Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT U Drive: Central File Storage for Users UW-IT Service Catalog U DriveForms & Support Get support for U Drive U Drive is a central file storage for users that provides students, faculty and staff with a place to store files that can be accessed from anywhere, on- and off-campus. U Drive files are available via the network in real time, from any computer on campus, both personal and institutionally owned. Windows, Mac and Linux computers are supported. Off campus, users can access their files via standard internet protocols such as Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP). No additional software is needed to sync files, and desktop software (such as SPSS or Adobe products) can open and save files directly from the U Drive from campus. Announcements Amount of storage Activate and manage your storage Accessing U Drive Get backups of your files Sharing and collaboration Transitioning between statuses Guidelines and rules Information for departmental IT staff Announcements There are not currently any announcements for U Drive. Amount of storage Students: Students can store up to 50 GB of data, which is automatically backed up. This service is activated automatically for all Tech-Fee paying students; you can use it right away. Students who do not pay the Tech-Fee are not eligible for this service. Faculty and Staff: Faculty and Staff are allotted 50 GB of data, which is automatically backed up. If you need more space than that, your quota can be increased with a UW Budget number on the Manage Your UW NetID Resources Web page. Note: This service is not appropriate for storing regulatory-protected data, or sensitive information that may be subject to compliance regulations. See Information Security and Privacy Laws and Regulations for more information. Activate and manage your storage U Drive is automatically activated for all students, faculty and staff. If you wish to manage your account manually, you may do so at the UW NetID Service Management page. Follow these steps from your browser to activate or deactivate this service: Navigate to your Manage Your UW NetID Resources Web page. Click on “Computing Services.” Check the box next to “Central File Storage.” Click on “Subscribe” or “Unsubscribe” to update your account. Faculty and staff can also purchase additional storage from the UW NetID Service Management page with a UW budget number. Rates are available in the UW-IT Service Catalog. Accessing U Drive How you access U Drive depends on if you are on the UW network or not. From on-campus while on the UW network: If you are on the UW campus and using the UW Wi-Fi network, the eduroam Wi-Fi network, or a computer plugged into an UW network Internet access point, you can access your U Drive via SMB. From off-campus or while not on the UW network: If you are off campus, or not connected to the UW network, you can access your U Drive via SFTP or via SMB while using Husky OnNet to virtually access the UW network. Accessing U Drive via SMB Connecting via SMB requires that you be either connected to the UW network or using Husky OnNet to virtually access the UW network. If your U Drive service is active, you are ready to access your storage on U Drive. The most common way to access the U Drive is by opening it on your computer like any other disk: Windows Press Windows-R (Press the and R). Type \\udrive.uw.edu\udrive; Click OK. When prompted for Username and Password, enter as NETID\username, followed by your UW NetID password; Click OK. Mac OS X Open “Finder.” Press Command-K (or Go -> Connect to Server from the menu). Enter: smb://udrive.uw.edu/udrive Click Connect. When prompted enter your UW NetID username and password. Linux Connect to smb://udrive.uw.edu/udrive Accessing U Drive via SFTP You may access U Drive via the SFTP protocol from any Internet connection, on- or off-camps. This allows a more traditional way of moving files to and from the U Drive, and does not have network restrictions. Basic instructions are below. Secure FTP (SFTP) Programs Free SFTP programs are available from a number of sites on the Web. A common program is Filezilla, but others are available. You may wish to check with your local support team to see if there is a preferred software package. When downloading such programs, be VERY CAREFUL to read the complete text and especially the text for any checkboxes before clicking the download button. Otherwise you may unintentionally give the site permission to download and install other programs or adware; many such programs are malicious and very hard to remove. Generic Transfer Settings The following table outlines the basic connection settings which can be used with SFTP programs. Generic Connection Settings Setting Value Hostname/Server sftp.udrive.uw.edu Port 22 Protocol SFTP/SSH Username NetID Password UW NetID Password Directory udrive Get Backups of your files The U Drive service provides access to previous versions of your files providing one version a day for a week, one version a week for a month, and one version a month for 3 months. These versions of your files are called snapshots. All of your U Drive snapshots are stored in a directory (location described below) called “udrive”, and the name of each snapshot directory reflects the date it was created. To access your snapshots from on-campus, follow the instructions above for “accessing your U Drive” to open the following: Windows Users: \\udrive.uw.edu\snapshots Mac OS X and Linux users: smb://udrive.uw.edu/snapshots To access snapshots from off-campus: Follow the instructions above, but double click on “snapshots” rather than “udrive” Sharing and collaboration The Central File Storage with the UW, U Drive, are only accessible to you — it is not a shareable drive. Some alternatives that are available for file sharing are UW Google Drive, Dropbox, or UW OneDrive for Business. Transitioning between statuses Transitioning from Student status to Faculty/Staff: In the case that default student quota is ever greater than the default staff quotas, limits will be lowered in the transition if these conditions apply: If a user’s usage is “well below” the new limit, their quota will be silently dropped to the new limit. “Well below” is defined as “The usage plus the lesser of 25% of the limit or 250 MB is less than or equal to the new limit.” In particular, a user with zero usage and a new limit of zero will be silently dropped to zero. If the user is near (aka “not well below”) or above the new limit: A warning email is generated explaining that the limit is going to be reduced in two weeks. When the deadline arrives, the quota is lowered. Prior to the deadline, the user’s quota is dropped to their current usage plus the 25% / 250MB grace value rounded up to the next gigabyte whenever their usage is “well below” the existing limit. Transitioning to an Active Student affiliation: Students’ quotas are set to 50GB as long as the total student usage of the service does not exceed the 15TB limit. To manage this quota after transitioning, go to the Manage Your UW NetID Resources Web page. Transitioning from Faculty/Staff to Student status: In the case of the Faculty/Staff having greater than 50GB for their quota, limits will be lowered to 50GB and changes may occur depending on how much of the quota is being used. When a Faculty/Staff changes their affiliation or adds an affiliation for Student status, they will be able to manage their storage quota for their U Drive services on the Manage Your UW NetID Resources Web page. Guidelines and rules Privacy The Central File Storage Service is provided to support UW activities and is subject to state laws and UW policy. Use caution when storing sensitive information. This includes personnel data, patient records, student information, and financial information. For more information, see the General Rules for Collection, Use, and Disclosure of Institutional Information. Data as Public Record Data is a public record when it is created or stored in the transaction of public business. As such, it must be retained as evidence in accordance with UW records retention practices: UW Records Management – Information records management, retention, storage, and destruction RCW 40.14 – Washington State law relating to preservation and destruction of public records Information for departmental IT Staff Benefits of the U Drive User self-service file recovery via snapshots UW-IT service with 24/7 monitoring and helpdesk support provided by help@u Reduces the storage capacity requirements for individual units Single Sign On (SSO) enables access without a password prompt when logged on with NetID credentials Windows Drive Mounting U Drive share can be mounted as a traditional Windows network drive by users, via a logon script, or via GPO. For users logged onto computer with their UW NetID credentials their credentials are passed through automatically. Units can enable UW NetID logins via either: UW NetID delegated OU UW NetID trust to a local AD domain Below is the syntax for a simple .BAT script that is executed on user logon: NET USE U: \\udrive.uw.edu\udrive /PERSISTENT:YES If a user is not logged on with their NETID credentials, then they need to specify their NETID username: NET USE U: \\udrive.uw.edu\udrive /USER:NETID\%username% /PERSISTENT:YES While any letter maybe used, departments are encouraged to use “U:” if feasible to provide a standard mount point across campus. Windows “homeDirectory” Support for NETID Users This information is for units who have a UW-IT Computer Support Org set up. The AD attributes for “homeDrive” and “homeDirectory” can be set via the support group tool under the NETID Domain Settings section. This will cause Windows to automatically map the U Drive upon login. Programs that use the user variables %HOMEDRIVE% and %HOMESHARE% will be able to make use of the U Drive automatically. Mac and Linux Single Sign On Support SSO support for Mac and Linux users is provided via the Kerberos tickets. Users can obtain a Kerberos ticket by authenticating via the NETID.WASHINGTON.EDU realm, or by requesting a ticket via the kinit command: kinit netid@NETID.WASHINGTON.EDU Subsequent mounts of smb://udrive.uw.edu/udrive should complete without a username/password prompt. Additionally Macs and Linux machines joined to a UW NetID delegated OU support SSO for users logged on via NetID credentials. Last reviewed November 27, 2019 Tags: File StorageOnline File StorageOnline StorageU:DriveUW File Storage See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Online storage Storage Quotas U Drive: Central File Storage for Users U Drive slow to open and save MS Word Documents for some clients My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA