Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Teaching and Learning Teaching and Learning Tools UW-IT JupyterHub for Teaching Home Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching during the pandemic International availability of learning technologies Resources for teaching remotely UW course readiness checklist for online instruction Vendor capacity and operations during Coronavirus UW-IT JupyterHub for Teaching JupyterHub best practices Quickstart & Tutorial UW-IT’s JupyterHub Brings Research Technologies to the Classroom Canvas Learning Management System Canvas Help for Instructors and Staff Canvas Help for Students Canvas Policies Catalyst Web Tools Catalyst Archive Retirement of Catalyst WebQ and GradeBook GradeBook WebQ Survey Enterprise Training & Management System (Bridge) GradePage Assign and Submit Grades Import and Convert from CSV for Grade Submission Review Submitted Grades Change Submitted Grades Access GradePage from MyUW GradePage Usage Metrics GradePage Data Retention Policy MyPlan Academic Planner Additional Resources Advanced Search Course Details Page DARS Drop Courses Filter Functions Find Courses Find Programs Frequently Asked Questions Import Plan Known Issues MyPlan Help for Advisers Schedule Builder Transfer Equivalency MyUW MyUW Mobile Apps MyUW’s Relevant Events MyUW for Students MyUW for Faculty & Instructors Course Dashboard: Insights to Support Teaching MyUW for Staff Migrate a few bookmarks to Quick Links Personalize Quick Links Migrate bookmarks from legacy MyUW MyUW Release Notes A Brief History of MyUW Notify.UW Using Notify.UW Known Issues Notify.UW Frequently Asked Questions Panopto Lecture Capture Panopto Quizzing: Known Issues Panopto overview Install the Panopto Recorder Create a recording on your computer Create a recording using Panopto Capture Record offline with Panopto Schedule Lecture Capture Live stream your lectures with Panopto Add captions to Panopto recordings Upload a new recording View Panopto recordings Share recordings in Canvas Share recordings in Panopto Copy recordings Download recordings Manage your recording in the classroom Add a Panopto recording to a Canvas page Allow students to record and share Panopto sessions Create a Panopto user group Remove access to Panopto recordings when copying Canvas course content Panopto FAQs Panopto or Zoom? Panopto Zoom integration Panopto Data Retention Policy Panopto Policies Panopto Updates Panopto usage metrics Pivot Advising Tool Poll Everywhere UW Poll Everywhere Updates Poll Creators: Import Students/ Participants Poll Takers: Set Up Your Account & Log In Poll Creators: Export graded poll responses to the Canvas Gradebook Poll Creators: Share Polls with TAs, Designers and Other Instructors Poll Everywhere Service Metrics Poll Everywhere Data Retention Policy Prereq Map Scout™ Add and edit STF-funded items in Scout Frequently Asked Questions Introducing Scout Scout Service Metrics Bringing Scout to Bothell Splunk Classroom Response Systems Create accessible documents, websites, and videos Supported browsers Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT UW-IT JupyterHub for Teaching JupyterHub for Teaching gives users access to Jupyter Notebook environments (computational environments and resources) without the hassle of installation and maintenance tasks. Instructors can make individual workspaces available via JupyterHub to students using shared resources, which can be managed efficiently by system administrators. Read more about JupyterHub at the UW: Highlights of the UW winter and spring 2020 Jupyter Hub for Teaching pilot Full report: UW winter 2020 JupyterHub for Teaching pilot Profile of one UW professor’s experience with JupyterHub for Teaching Full report: UW spring 2021 JupyterHub for Teaching pilot Sign up for JupyterHub for your course Instructors can request to have a JupyterHub environment set up for one or more of their classes by filling out the registration form (accessible from the link below). Please note: Registration requests may require two or more business days or more to be processed. Hubs will be provisioned and available one to three weeks before the start of the quarter for which they are requested. REGISTER HERE Frequently Asked Questions I’m new to JupyterHub/Jupyter Notebooks. Is there an easy way to learn more about how it can support teaching and learning? Check out this online handbook: Teaching and Learning with Jupyter This short video illustrates what Jupyter Notebooks can do YouTube offers many videos about Jupyter Notebooks Check out the official Jupyter documentation Read highlights of the UW winter and spring 2020 JupyterHub for Teaching pilot I know a little bit about Jupyter Notebooks. Can I get a look at what people at the UW are doing with them? Explore this showcase of sample Jupyter notebooks created at the UW. I’d like to explore Jupyter Notebooks on my own. Is there a sandbox I can play with? Please contact us at help@uw.edu and we will happily set up a sandbox for you. I have experience using Python in my classes. What’s the difference between using Python and Jupyter Notebooks? Jupyter Notebooks on the hosted JupyterHub system provides a browser based Python or R IDE, with a consistent environment for all users. As there are no local dependencies, complications arising from students using a variety of platforms are significantly reduced. What will my Jupyter environment include? Per-user resource allocation: User Storage: 5 GB Max Memory: 2GB or 4GB (chosen by instructor) CPU: Default is 2 cores, with option of up to 4 cores Instructors can choose from five standard notebook images for their JupyterHub deployment, or can use a compatible custom notebook from elsewhere: Datascience SciPy R RStudio TensorFlow An instructor-supported custom image sourced from the Jupyter community that the instructor provides and maintains. Please note that those who choose this option are responsible for all support, testing, troubleshooting, bug fixing and updates; UW-IT will not provide support outside of general cloud platform support. The SciPy, R, and TensorFlow images share the following features: Ubuntu Bionic Miniconda Python 3.x in /opt/conda Unprivileged user jovyan with ownership over the /home/jovyan and /opt/conda paths Pandoc and TeX Live for Notebook document conversion Git, emacs, jed, nano, tzdata, and unzip Ipywidgets for interactive visualizations in Python Notebooks NBGitPuller for syncing a git repository to a user’s home directory NBResUse to show memory usage and limits in the Notebook UI The Github links for each image provide more detailed information Can I add course data to student notebooks? Yes! All our standard notebook environments include the nbgitpuller server extension, which allows one or more public git repositories of your choosing to be automatically added to the home directory of student environments. The contents of the remote repository will be updated each time a notebook starts up. This can be requested at the time you register for a Hub, or after the fact by sending a request to help@uw.edu with “JupyterHub for Teaching” in the subject line. Please include the URL for your Git repository, the branch to use (if more than one is present), and the local folder name your students will see. Please also check out our best practices page for information about using nbgitpuller in your course. How do I set up a custom notebook image for my JupyterHub environment? Instructors can request to use their own custom image before a quarter starts during an open registration period. When choosing this option, instructors must build an image sourced from the Jupyter community, test it, publish it on DockerHub or another repository, and provide a location URL to the JupyterHub for Teaching support team. For compatibility reasons, we strongly recommend basing custom images off of the supported images here. Instructors who originally registered to use a stock image can choose to convert it to a custom image at any time during the quarter by sending a request and image URL to help@uw.edu. Note: Instructors who choose the Custom Image option are responsible for all support, testing, troubleshooting, bug fixing, and updates; UW-IT will not provide support outside of general cloud platform support. Can I modify the stock R, SciPy, or TensorFlow images? Send modification requests for the stock R, SciPy, or TensorFlow images to help@uw.edu. Changes, if approved and successfully tested, will only be applied to the stock images between quarters to ensure system continuity and stability for all users. Alternatively, instructors can use one of the stock images as a starting point to create a custom image that can be used at any time. Will new stock images be added in addition to the R, SciPy and TensorFlow images? We are happy to review requests for new stock images, please send them to help@uw.edu. New stock images, if approved and successfully tested, will be implemented between quarters. How technical do students need to be to learn successfully with Jupyter Notebooks? Experience with other coding platforms (e.g., MATLAB, ArcGIS) and languages can provide a useful foundation. If students do not have experience with Python, instructors should consider providing time and resources to getting students comfortable using it. What support can I expect from UW-IT? Each student in your course will receive access to a Jupyter Notebook server, created from your selected Jupyter image. Access to the Notebooks is restricted to the user UW NetIDs that are present in the course in Canvas. UW-IT will run the infrastructure at no cost to you. Note: UW-IT is not expert in the pedagogy of using JupyterHub/Jupyter Notebooks. While we are providing JupyterHub, we strongly encourage users to review JupyterHub’s support documentation. UW-IT is also working with advanced users of Jupyter Notebooks to build a campus support network. As details about that support become available, they will be shared here. For general questions about JupyterHub for Teaching, contact help@uw.edu. For faster service, please include “Jupyter” in the subject line. What kind of support should I be prepared to set up on my own? Experienced students, familiar with Jupyter Notebooks and JupyterHub and who are capable of managing back end development and technical problems, may be an important source of support for faculty. This type of support might be included in an existing teaching assistant’s job duties. With limited permissions to the cloud computing administrator interface, teaching assistants could troubleshoot common issues with students in real time. Is the JupyterHub for Teaching service really free? There are currently no costs associated with using the service. Are there best practices for using JupyterHub at the UW? Yes! Review best practices here. Is there a changelog available? Yes! View the changelog here. How long is my instance of JupyterHub available? JupyterHub for Teaching instances will be maintained for at least one quarter after their associated course has completed. Announcements will be sent to instructors approximately two weeks before the deletion date. JupyterHub active course quarter Deleted on or after Spring 2021 Sept 29, 2021 Summer 2021 Dec 17, 2021 Fall 2021 Mar 18, 2022 Winter 2022 June 10, 2022 Last reviewed August 5, 2021 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching during the pandemic International availability of learning technologies Resources for teaching remotely UW course readiness checklist for online instruction Vendor capacity and operations during Coronavirus UW-IT JupyterHub for Teaching JupyterHub best practices Quickstart & Tutorial UW-IT’s JupyterHub Brings Research Technologies to the Classroom Canvas Learning Management System Canvas Help for Instructors and Staff Canvas Help for Students Canvas Policies Catalyst Web Tools Catalyst Archive Retirement of Catalyst WebQ and GradeBook GradeBook WebQ Survey Enterprise Training & Management System (Bridge) GradePage Assign and Submit Grades Import and Convert from CSV for Grade Submission Review Submitted Grades Change Submitted Grades Access GradePage from MyUW GradePage Usage Metrics GradePage Data Retention Policy MyPlan Academic Planner Additional Resources Advanced Search Course Details Page DARS Drop Courses Filter Functions Find Courses Find Programs Frequently Asked Questions Import Plan Known Issues MyPlan Help for Advisers Schedule Builder Transfer Equivalency MyUW MyUW Mobile Apps MyUW’s Relevant Events MyUW for Students MyUW for Faculty & Instructors Course Dashboard: Insights to Support Teaching MyUW for Staff Migrate a few bookmarks to Quick Links Personalize Quick Links Migrate bookmarks from legacy MyUW MyUW Release Notes A Brief History of MyUW Notify.UW Using Notify.UW Known Issues Notify.UW Frequently Asked Questions Panopto Lecture Capture Panopto Quizzing: Known Issues Panopto overview Install the Panopto Recorder Create a recording on your computer Create a recording using Panopto Capture Record offline with Panopto Schedule Lecture Capture Live stream your lectures with Panopto Add captions to Panopto recordings Upload a new recording View Panopto recordings Share recordings in Canvas Share recordings in Panopto Copy recordings Download recordings Manage your recording in the classroom Add a Panopto recording to a Canvas page Allow students to record and share Panopto sessions Create a Panopto user group Remove access to Panopto recordings when copying Canvas course content Panopto FAQs Panopto or Zoom? Panopto Zoom integration Panopto Data Retention Policy Panopto Policies Panopto Updates Panopto usage metrics Pivot Advising Tool Poll Everywhere UW Poll Everywhere Updates Poll Creators: Import Students/ Participants Poll Takers: Set Up Your Account & Log In Poll Creators: Export graded poll responses to the Canvas Gradebook Poll Creators: Share Polls with TAs, Designers and Other Instructors Poll Everywhere Service Metrics Poll Everywhere Data Retention Policy Prereq Map Scout™ Add and edit STF-funded items in Scout Frequently Asked Questions Introducing Scout Scout Service Metrics Bringing Scout to Bothell Splunk Classroom Response Systems Create accessible documents, websites, and videos Supported browsers My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA