Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Research Cloud computing for research Early success stories Home Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Early success stories Several researchers at the UW have found value and success by migrating their work to the cloud. Here are some of their stories. Understanding what’s happening to Arctic lakes may help us save them Not long ago, on a cool September day deep in Alaska’s Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge, a floatplane dropped Catherine Kuhn and a team of scientists near a cabin studded with nails to keep curious grizzly and black bears at bay. But hungry bears and blood-sucking mosquitoes were not her concern as Kuhn set out to collect water samples and tally other field measurements on the shores of a large shallow lake. For Kuhn, a Ph.D. candidate in the UW’s School of Environmental and Forest Sciences, the primary focus was on the lake’s color. As a member of Associate Professor David Butman’s Ecosystem Biogeochemistry Group, she was seeking to discover what the shallow waters in front of her, and the millions like it in the Arctic Circle region, might reveal about carbon cycling and climate change. Troubled Waters Immune response research hints at answers to fighting deadly coronavirus When a new and deadly coronavirus began to sweep across the world earlier this year, researchers from the UW’s Department of Physics, the University of Hong Kong and other institutions quickly assembled a team to learn how B cells — a central player in adaptive immunity — were engaging this enemy. The physics of a deadly virus. UW Grad uses the cloud to build 3-D model to study the human genome When Timothy Durham looks at the human genome, he sees an encyclopedia of precise instructions that tell approximately 31 trillion cells in the human body how to do their jobs. Figuring out how cells read and interpret these instructions—and how they can misread them—could help researchers unravel the mysteries of what leads to disease and point to cures. This is a complicated ongoing work being performed by thousands of researchers across the globe. Durham, using the power of cloud computing, is now one of them. ORCA Transit Data fuels grad student research for social good Professor Mark Hallenbeck and his team of graduate students analyzed massive amounts of data generated by ORCA smart cards, used by riders to pay for public transportation in the Puget Sound area. The data had never been deeply studied by transportation agencies before, so the students undertook that task and began by moving the data to an Amazon cloud database service as part of a Data Science for Social Good fellowship program. Their initial work featured extensive interactivity with the cloud database using the R programming language. The cloud provided the team with the compute power they needed to analyze their massive data sets in a cost effective way, allowing them to scale down once the project was over. The team was able to demonstrate the tremendous potential of this approach to understand use patterns and improve the operation of public transportation in Puget Sound. See The Seattle Times and GeekWire articles for more information on this project. iSchool Capstone Project wires Internet of Things to the Amazon Cloud The UW Information School (iSchool) capstone projects are designed to provide students with practical experience using emerging technologies, such as cloud computing for research. A spring 2016 capstone Geo-sensing the supply chain introduced one student team to devices recording and transmitting location and vehicle status for a shipping fleet, an example of the Internet-of-Things. When the project began, data from generated by vehicle tracking devices were not consistently arriving in a cloud database. Fortunately, Amazon Web Services (AWS) Solutions Architects stepped in to help, introducing the iSchool student team to the AWS Lambda service on the cloud. In short order, the data were flowing to a cloud database in an intelligently managed, consistent and reliable manner. The capstone project was a tremendous success and the results and software contributed to the growing knowledge base of cloud solutions. Forty Neurohackers learn visualization skills from the cloud Cloud computing resources provided by UW-IT Research Computing were key to team projects conducted at “Neurohackweek,” held at the UW eScience Institute.The five-day event (September 5-9, 2016) was a mix of conference, summer school and hackathon (a short-term design event where programmers and others involved in development collaborate intensively on software projects). It brought together graduate students, post-docs, faculty and research staff from the U.S., UK and the Netherlands in the fields of Psychology, Neuroscience and Computer Science. UW-IT and eScience will continue to work together to expand and solidify the contributions of cloud computing to research. Earth science data rains down from the cloud UW oceanographer Parker MacCready developed a data system on the Microsoft Azure cloud that helps shellfish growers operate oyster farms. The system includes automated data access (Application Programming Interface or API) and is powered by the Python programming language.The system is openly available and has subsequently been adapted by three research teams to: Provide glacier data for southern Alaska to a collaboration team Manage water resources at locations on four continents Support a NASA study of climate change impact in the Himalayas See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA