Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Resources for technical staff Microsoft Technology Community Home Resources for technical staff Microsoft Technology Community Meetings Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Microsoft Technology Community This Community of Practice exists to collaborate about the implementation and management of Microsoft technologies. Membership Membership is open. You can join or leave via a Groups Service group. Membership in this group automatically adds you to a mailing list: ms-tech@uw.edu. Meetings Recurring monthly meetings have two common elements: -Presentation or facilitated discussion topic -Discovery sharing The meeting is intended to recur on the 3rd Wednesday afternoon of each month from 1:30 to 3:30pm at Odegaard 220. Here is our schedule for 2020 with those dates which are not the 3rd Wednesday italicized: January 15, 1:30-3:30pm Intune February 19, 1:30-3:30pm 2019 Ignite Summary March 18, 1:30-3:00pm Azure SQL (Teams Remote only) April 15, 1:30-3:30pm Canceled (UW COVID-19 restrictions) May 20, 1:30-3:30pm Azure VNET / Site-to-Site VPN / ExpressRoute June 17, 1:30-3:30pm July No Meeting August 19, 1:30-3:00pm September 16, 1:30-3:00pm Azure Containers October 28, 1:30-3:00pm November 18, 1:30-3:30pm December 16, 1:30-3:30pm Topics will be added to the dates once we confirm presenters. Presentation Topics The presentation or facilitated discussion topic element will alternate in focus: -Odd numbered months primarily have content provided via a partnership with Microsoft, with community input on what topics are desired. -Even numbered months primarily have content provided by UW-IT and other IT units. You can expect facilitated discussion about the presented technology, with focus on challenges specific to the UW and exploration of recommended solutions. Discussion may cover a Microsoft technology, an existing service offering, design proposals or changes, unmet needs and gaps in provided services, or pending new capabilities that need additional input. Community members are encouraged to propose topic ideas and vote on topics they are interested in. You don’t have to present if you propose a topic. More info about how to review topic ideas, vote, and propose them is below. Discovery Sharing The discovery element will leverage a 1-2-4 report out mechanism to share out a couple key things: -Current issues experienced or recently discovered solution -What Microsoft technology or service are you interested in hearing more about? The 1-2-4 report out mechanism starts with you reflecting on your own, then sharing your thoughts with another person, then moving to a group of 4, the group of 4 then reports the top item or two to the facilitator. Depending on time, there may be short follow-up discussion on discovered items. Using UserVoice to Propose and Vote on Topic Ideas We really want this community to provide broadly valuable topics, so we’ll regularly ask you to provide input on topic ideas via a UserVoice forum: https://ontheroa.uservoice.com/forums/251114-ms-technology-community If you are unfamiliar with UserVoice, here is a short intro to provide some context. UserVoice allows you to login or remain anonymous. You can use your UW NetID via the Google logon option. Each Uservoice forum gives a user a set number of votes. You pledge those votes to topic ideas, up to a maximum of 3 votes to a single topic idea. You can also suggest new topic ideas, and we encourage you to do so. Our UserVoice forum has two categories: Microsoft provided topic, https://ontheroa.uservoice.com/forums/251114-ms-technology-community/category/187147-microsoft-provided-topic UW provided topic, https://ontheroa.uservoice.com/forums/251114-ms-technology-community/category/187150-uw-provided-topic to clearly delineate who is intended to provide a given topic. This will help us to target topics to specific months. We will factor your input into the choice of scheduled topics. Microsoft Teams The Microsoft COP also has a Teams instance that is used to get feedback from the group and well as to delve into topics or continue discussion within the COP. Sending a request to ms-tech@uw.edu will add you to the team. Mailing list By joining this community, within 24 hours you are automatically added to the ms-tech mailman list. The purpose of this mailing list is to facilitate interaction within the community. We will send community announcements, but you should feel free to share interesting news, discoveries, frustrations, or appeals for help about MS technology. Mailing list expectations and norms This list will allow anyone on it to post, i.e. this is a two-way mailing list without moderation. Let’s try to keep our communications positive—there isn’t anyone who doesn’t like to bash Microsoft or even specific UW-IT services occasionally, but the community exists to collaborate, so let’s try to keep focused on how we can move forward. If there is what we consider abuse, we’ll step in and moderate individuals. Please do not cross-post to multiple mailing lists. There are a number of reasons this is poor etiquette, but the leading one is that someone will inevitably respond to your email but won’t be on this mailing list. Lots of responses like this make it difficult to manage the list. Instead send separate emails, one to each mailing list. And please accept our appreciation in advance for doing so. As partners in helping provide meeting content and solutions, there will be Microsoft employees on this mailing list. Those Microsoft employees are expected to not forward or share mailing list posts outside the list without first getting the sender’s permission. Last reviewed June 19, 2018 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Resources for technical staff Microsoft Technology Community Meetings My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA