Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Enterprise Data Services Getting Started with Enterprise Data Home Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Request Access to Reports, Analytics, and Data DAC and SMAT Enterprise Data Warehouse Help: Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Swagger: Interactive API Documentation Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Data Cubes Data Visualizations (Tableau) Help: Reports and Analytics Reports Understand Data EDW Data Models Term and Data Definitions (Knowledge Navigator) Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Getting Started with Enterprise Data If you are new to enterprise data, the EDW, or reporting and analytics, you might need help getting started. Below we have put together some resources to help guide you. Enterprise Data Warehouse Reporting and Analytics Enterprise Data Warehouse FAQs What is the EDW and what data is available? The EDW is a set of secure databases that are accessible across UW. EDW data is used by nearly every major UW system, school, and college. When does EDW data load? To find out, check out the data loading summary. How do I connect and query EDW data? View our tips on how to connect to and query EDW data using a variety of tools. Where can I learn about the meaning of the data in a specific table or column? Knowledge Navigator is your guide to understanding UW data and information. Browse data definitions for a specific database, or search for the meaning of a specific column of data. Reporting and Analytics FAQs: How do the BI Portal and EDW work together? The BI Portal is the user-friendly portal for accessing reports and visualizations that display EDW data. If you have questions, check out our Reporting and Analytics FAQ. Where do I run reports? The BI Portal’s Reports tab is a great place to start. You can search or filter for a specific report. In the BI Portal, you will also find helpful contextual information about reports. What data does my security role give me access to? To find out, select a report, then click the “Security Information” tab to see which roles have full, partial, or no access to the data in the report. There are so many reports! How do I know which report helps answer my question? Knowledge Navigator is your guide to understanding UW data and information. Find information across subject areas, databases, glossaries, business intelligence (BI) tools, and diagrams. Connect from Knowledge Navigator to the exact report in BI Portal that contains that data and information you need. Additional Resources: Where can I find more information on how to use EDW? Visit the EDW section of our website for more information. Are there any UW Community of Practice groups I can join for support? To reach current and new users of enterprise data tools, we organize the Reporting and Analytics Webinar Series. These webinars are ideal for anyone who is new to UW or doesn’t know where to start with working with data. We organize the UW Tableau User Group. Although this group meets to discuss Tableau related topics, it also serves as a way to network with EDW data users and ask questions about EDW specific topics. This group is designed more for Tableau developers. If you have any questions, please send them to help@uw.edu and include ‘EDW’ in the subject line. See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Request Access to Reports, Analytics, and Data DAC and SMAT Enterprise Data Warehouse Help: Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Swagger: Interactive API Documentation Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Data Cubes Data Visualizations (Tableau) Help: Reports and Analytics Reports Understand Data EDW Data Models Term and Data Definitions (Knowledge Navigator) My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA