Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Enterprise Data Services Data Security Home Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Request Access to Reports, Analytics, and Data DAC and SMAT Enterprise Data Warehouse Help: Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Swagger: Interactive API Documentation Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Data Cubes Data Visualizations (Tableau) Help: Reports and Analytics Reports Understand Data EDW Data Models Term and Data Definitions (Knowledge Navigator) Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Data Security Overview The Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) has data from multiple subject areas. In order to protect sensitive data while providing uniform access to enterprise data users, the Data Management Committee developed security roles for access to the EDW. Users are assigned to these roles according to their job responsibilities and data use requirements. These roles were created based on principles identified in the UW Information Systems Security Policy Statement. These security roles provide granular access to information and define privileges based on specific column access needs. The Security Access and Roles Matrix (or just “Matrix”) describes the roles and their privilege levels across data subject areas (e.g. Academic, HR, Finance). University faculty and staff must request access to EDW data in order to query the EDW or use reporting and analysis tools that source data from the EDW. Depending on the sensitivity level of the data needed, access is granted by a local ASTRA administrator or by the Data Custodians. In both cases, users are assigned to one or more roles defined by the Matrix. Click to Request Access Data Security Tools The three tools outlined below work in concert to ensure the DMC’s Matrix rules are enforced. ASTRA DAC SMAT ASTRA ASTRA stands for Access to Systems, Tools, Resources and Application. ASTRA is an access management service that stores authorization information about who can use a variety of UW administrative applications and other resources. DAC DAC stands for Data Access Control*. The DAC is a SQL database that dynamically protects UW enterprise data through security settings defined for each database, table, and column. Data custodians, or their delegates, determine which roles should have access to specific columns of data, and these security definitions are stored in the DAC. SMAT SMAT stands for Security Metadata Admin Tool*. The SMAT is a web‐based front end for writing security definitions to the DAC. Data custodians or their delegates use the SMAT to grant DMC roles table-level access or to restrict access to specific columns in an EDW table. *Full patent filed with the US Patent and Trademark Office in October, 2009. DAC and SMAT were developed by Information Management’s Enterprise Data & Analytics team. Questions? Click here to read more about how ASTRA, DAC, and SMAT function to keep UW enterprise data secure. DAC and SMAT If you have any questions about how we leverage these three tools to keep UW enterprise data secure, please write us at help@uw.edu. Last reviewed September 20, 2019 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Request Access to Reports, Analytics, and Data DAC and SMAT Enterprise Data Warehouse Help: Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Swagger: Interactive API Documentation Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Data Cubes Data Visualizations (Tableau) Help: Reports and Analytics Reports Understand Data EDW Data Models Term and Data Definitions (Knowledge Navigator) My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA