Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Security Securing your computer Computer management Home Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Install the UW Services CA Root Certificate Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Computer management On This Page Every Computer Needs Management Information Security Authentication and Authorization Services Comply With Rules and Laws Every Computer Needs Management A well managed computer is a secure computer. Proper management includes the following: Keeping your operating system and software up-to-date Protecting your computer with anti-virus and anti-spyware software Being skeptical and careful in what you do, such as opening attachments What Is Your Role? Your role in managing the computers you use depends on your situation: Your Situation Your Role Managed Workstation Configuration, installations, and updates are done for you, usually automatically over the network. UW Information Technology’s Managed Workstation service is an example of a system for managing computers through the network. Many departments provide similar services. Do not change anything without explicit permission. Someone else is taking care of security management for you. Supported Workstation A support person works with you to do configuration, installs, and updates on your computer and guides you on additional steps you should take. Talk to your support person about what is being done for you and what steps you need to take yourself. Do-It-Yourself You have no assigned support person for your computer. You need to do all the steps of computer management yourself, perhaps with help from your friends. Learn about Securing Your Computer. Much of what you need is on the Securing Your Computer page, including anti-virus programs. Four Steps of Computer Management The following four general steps will go a long way toward making your computer secure. If your network manager or support person is not taking the following steps, you probably need to do them yourself. Management Steps What Is Your Role? Managed Workstation Supported Workstation Do-It-Yourself 1. Before Connecting With any new computer, BEFORE doing any other work, take the following steps: Apply operating system updates. Install an anti-virus program. Get the Sophos anti-virus program for both Windows and Macintosh computers. Reset default passwords (such as the password for the administrator’s account). Turn off file sharing (you can turn it on later when you need it). Consider running a firewall program. Do not run a firewall if your computer is network-managed or your computer support person says not to. Done by your network manager. Talk to your computer support person about which steps you should do. You need to do all these steps yourself. 2. Have Protection Establish a security routine: Automate your operating system updates. Automate your anti-virus updates. Regularly do software updates. Regularly run an anti-spyware program. Consider running a firewall program. Do not run a firewall if your computer is network-managed or your computer support person says not to. Do your work in non-administrator accounts. Done by your network manager. Talk to your computer support person about which steps you should do. You need to do all these steps yourself. 3. Be Prepared Be ready for failures and infections: Backup your files regularly. Be prepared to rebuild: Have installation CDs and software. Have a plan for getting OS updates. In case of infection: Obtain the most recent anti-virus updates. Run your anti-virus program scan, then reboot, then scan again, then reboot, etc., until fixed. You may have to rebuild your system. Plan for upgrading: Support is fading for Windows 98 and Macintosh OS8. Done by your network manager. Talk to your computer support person about which steps you should do. You need to do all these steps yourself. 4. Be Skeptical Don’t be fooled into helping attackers: Do not open unexpected email attachments. Do not download unknown programs, such as free screensavers. Do not trade lots of unknown files, such as with peer-to-peer programs like Kazaa. Do not share your passwords with anyone. Do not believe amazing offers and unlikely stories. Everyone needs to be careful and skeptical. Everyone needs to be careful and skeptical. Everyone needs to be careful and skeptical. Information Security Ensuring the confidentiality and integrity of UW information while at the same time making it available for use requires careful strategic, tactical, and operational planning. The Office of the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) works with UW units to develop management strategies, manage incidents, and assess risks. Learn more here: Risk Advisories and Best Practices Smart Computing tips Policies, Standards, and Guidelines on information security and privacy UW Information Security News on Facebook Authentication and Authorization Services UW-IT provides authentication and authorization systems and tools for use in UW applications and services. Identity and Access Management — I&AM services include Kerberos, Web authentication, token authentication, UW windows infrastructure, and the UW Certificate Authority ASTRA — ASTRA is an access management service that stores authorization information about who can use a variety of UW administrative applications Comply With Rules and Laws As part of its effort to provide quality and reliable technology services, the University of Washington is required to comply with a broad range of federal and state laws and regulations related to management of public records, use of public resources, privacy protection, copyright protection, ethics rules, and criminal behavior. See Appropriate Use of UW Resources for more details. Last reviewed August 8, 2019 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Install the UW Services CA Root Certificate My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA