Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Home Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Acquiring computers and hardware for working remotely Internet connectivity for learning, teaching and working remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Technology for working remotely Related Information Increasing the speed of your home internet connection Internet connectivity for learning, teaching and working remotely Acquiring computers and hardware for working remotely Faculty, staff, and students can prepare for the possibility of disruptions to class, research and campus operations due to Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) by becoming familiar with the technology tools that make it possible to work, study and teach when you can’t get to campus. This guide highlights many tools that can help you teach, learn, and work remotely. Meet virtually with video, voice, and chat Teach classes online Connect remotely to your files, computer or other resources on the UW network Store your files online to easily access them remotely Collaborate with others using online productivity platforms Access your voicemail remotely and forward your phone calls Download software to your home computer Two-factor authentication More information on working remotely and preparedness Get help from UW-IT Meet virtually with video, voice, and chat Web-based video conferencing and online chat platforms are available for you to connect with your students and colleagues. UW Zoom Pro videoconferencing Online classes, webinars, lectures. Host live web broadcasts to students or colleagues worldwide and record to the cloud or computer. UW Zoom Pro provides meetings of unlimited time duration for up to 300 participants. Office hours, study groups, meetings, collaboration: Share screens, give Powerpoint presentations or have real-time video conversations for office hours, study groups or collaboration. Mobile Zoom: Use the Zoom app for iPhone, iPad, or Android for chat and video conference on the go . Phone conference line: Use the phone conference line — included with your Zoom account — so participants can join meetings by phone. FERPA/HIPAA: UW Zoom is aligned with Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), a federal law that protects the privacy of student educational records and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), a federal law that protects the privacy of medical information. Learn how to use it: Instructions on how to use UW Zoom are available on IT Connect, and Zoom provides additional documentation. If you’re an instructor, join a workshop or Zoom Office Hours to learn more. Online chat Microsoft Teams: Part of UW Office 365, Teams offers chat-based workspace for real-time collaboration, communication, meetings, file and app sharing; FERPA and HIPAA aligned. Google Hangouts: Part of UW G Suite, Hangouts allows video chat for up to 25 people. FERPA-aligned. Also see Google’s page about Google Hangouts. Teach classes online This technology toolkit can help instructors prepare for a possible disruption to classes with recommendations on what to do in advance, how to conduct classes remotely and how to organize your course materials and communicate with students. See recommendations from the UW’s Center for Teaching and Learning for teaching and learning when operations are suspended. Learn about the tech you need in order to prepare for when your classes can’t meet on campus. Connect remotely to your files, computer or other resources on the UW network If you are working from home, you should use an approved, secure virtual private network (VPN) to connect to your files, work computer or systems and other resources on the UW network. A VPN is an application on your device that establishes a secure connection to a network. Husky OnNet: Free to current students, faculty and staff, download Husky OnNet from UWare to use on MacOS, Windows and Linux. You can also get Husky OnNet for mobile devices, including iOS, Android and Chrome, by downloading the F5 Access client from the appropriate app store. Departmental VPN: Your department may also provide an approved VPN, so check with your department’s IT staff. UW Medicine VPN: UW Medicine employees should use the UW Medicine IT Services SSL VPN. A VPN is not needed for web-based UW resources and services, such as Workday, uw.edu web pages, Canvas, UW G Suite and UW Office 365. Get more information about remotely connecting to the UW network. Remote Desktop Remote Desktop access allows you to access your work computer from your home computer. Your computer software and files are all available, and you can even transfer files between UW systems. In many cases, you’ll need to be connected to the UW Network via VPN (Husky OnNet, department or UW Medicine VPN) before you can access your work computer through Remote Desktop. Your work computer must be on in order to access it via Remote Desktop. Computers must be turned on and not asleep in order to connect to them with a Remote Desktop connection. If you are unable to connect to your work computer remotely, it’s possible that your computer is no longer turned on or is asleep. Many computers have default power settings that will turn them off or put them to sleep after a certain amount of time has passed. If you need help accessing your work computer or for your work computer to be turned back on, please contact your local IT department. If your work computer is managed by UW-IT’s Managed Workstation service, send an email to help@uw.edu. Learn more about Remote Desktop Connect remotely to a Managed Workstation computer Remotely access files on shared drives Store important documents on a shared file service that you can access from remote locations. Once connected to the UW network via a VPN, you should be able to connect to shared drives remotely. Contact your local IT department for instructions on how to connect to your shared drives. Learn more about remote file access Get an overview of online storage options Store your files online to easily access them remotely Keep your files in the cloud so that you can access them from remote locations with an internet connection. If you are working with FERPA- or HIPAA-protected data, choose an option that aligns with these regulations. View an overview of online storage options Detailed comparison of file service capabilities Collaborate with others using online productivity platforms Collaboration platforms empower you to work with peers from different locations, and since your work is stored in the cloud you can access it from anywhere with an internet connection. Both UW G Suite and UW Office 365 are web-based and accessible via the internet. They offer online word processing, spreadsheets, presentations, storage and more. Access your voicemail remotely and forward your phone calls You can access voicemail from home and use the free Extension Connect feature to extend UW telephone service to a cellular or home telephone number. Forward your calls to your cell or home number using Call Forwarding or Remote Access Call Forwarding. You can also access your voicemail online or have it forwarded to you via email. You can also send both faxes and text messages from your web browser using UW-IT’s Centralized Fax Service and Text Messaging Service. Learn more about accessing phones and voicemail remotely Download software to your personal computer Many software programs you use at work can also be downloaded to your personal computer too. Software at reduced or no cost is available in UWare. Certain products and/or versions are licensed for UW-owned equipment, so check the eligibility requirements or send email to help@uw.edu if you are unsure. Two-factor authentication If you need access to UW systems that require two-factor authentication (2FA) to verify it’s you when you sign in, be sure to enroll the device you’ll use to access remotely. Check with your local IT support staff for information about remotely connecting to the specific systems your department uses. More information on working remotely and preparedness Working Remotely Prepare for when classes can’t meet Prepare for business disruptions Coronavirus FAQs and how you can protect yourself Make a plan – prepare yourself and your family UW Alert Get help from UW-IT Send your questions and comments to our contacts below. UW-IT monitors its email and phones 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Email: help@uw.edu Phone: 206-221-5000 Submit a question using a Web form: Send a question to UW-IT Check the status of your existing requests at My Requests Last reviewed July 13, 2020 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Acquiring computers and hardware for working remotely Internet connectivity for learning, teaching and working remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA