Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Working Remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection Home Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Acquiring computers and hardware for working remotely Internet connectivity for learning, teaching and working remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Increasing the speed of your home internet connection Your home internet connection may experience performance degradation under circumstances that place extra load on the connection. You may be familiar with the term “last mile,” which generally refers to the broadband customer at home. The impaired performance of this last mile does not involve or directly impact UW infrastructure, and cannot be mitigated by the UW. Here are some tips for individuals at home to attempt that may improve performance: Activities that affect your home internet speed Having many devices connected to your home internet at the same time. Every connected device in your home uses some of the bandwidth. Multiple activities that use a lot of bandwidth at the same time, like streaming, gaming, videoconferencing and downloading large files Connecting via Wi-Fi. A wired connection tends to be faster. Interference from other Wi-Fi networks. Too many people connecting to a website or app at once. The amount of VPN traffic you send can increase consumption of your local bandwidth. Typically, only your UW connections require the VPN. If you are using Husky On Net via the Big IP Edge Client, you can control this via the client application by selecting “Change Server” in the lower left corner, and selecting “UW Campus Traffic Only.” Ways to potentially increase internet speed: Offload applications to other devices (e.g., Zoom and Slack apps). This is also advisable in case a connection is lost. Turn off video when using conference apps. Restart your router now and then. The router, sometimes called the gateway, is the device that takes the “feed” from your home internet service and disseminates it for use by your connected computers and devices. You may find a reset button on the router, but unplugging it for 5-10 seconds is recommended to ensure that the router’s cache clears. Keep your router and your devices away from obstructions (like metal) and common sources of interference (e.g., baby monitors and microwaves). Move Wi-Fi devices closer to your router. The farther away they are, the weaker the signal and the slower the speed. Place your Wi-Fi router in a central location in your home or office. Keeping it upright and off the floor improves coverage. Install a Mesh System in your home, which uses multiple connected pieces of hardware to extend the range and signal strength of Wi-Fi in your home. Only use Wi-Fi with devices that don’t have wired connection ports, such as smartphones and tablets. Add a Wi-Fi extender to improve coverage and signal strength if needed. Upgrade your broadband plan with your internet service provider. Hardware tips: Turn off internet-connected devices when you aren’t using them. Clear your browser cache and cookies. Restart devices regularly. Upgrade older Wi-Fi devices to ones with newer, faster Wi-Fi technology. Software tips: UW Zoom: Using Zoom videoconferencing with Remote Desktop Connection and VPNs like Husky OnNet together can decrease the performance of your home internet connection. Only use a VPN when it is necessary to access files on the UW network. Applications like Zoom can be run from your home computer without using a VPN. If you experience poor audio quality using UW Zoom, you can use the phone numbers provided by the meeting host to access audio via telephone rather than your computer to decrease your bandwidth usage. You an access your UW email via the Outlook Web App instead of using Remote Desktop Connection to access your work computer. Schedule auto-updates for your devices for a time that does not conflict with business hours. Update anti-virus software, drivers, firmware, and computer and device software. Exit streaming apps after watching videos or listening to music. Resources for working remotely: IT Connect: Working Remotely IT Connect: Technology for Working Remotely Internet2 blog, March 13, 2020: Understanding Network Impacts of Increased Online Learning Activities Last reviewed July 13, 2020 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Acquiring computers and hardware for working remotely Internet connectivity for learning, teaching and working remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA