Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Connecting in UW Housing Home Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Connecting in UW Housing Hospitality Wi-Fi Access Points Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) Service Husky OnNet for Sponsored NetIDs Download and use Husky OnNet Update Husky OnNet Husky OnNet FAQs Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Phase 1: Remote Desktop and File-Sharing Applications Network Addresses at the UW Domain Naming System (DNS) IPv6 Next Generation Internet Protocol Private Address Routing Request Campus Subdomains and Non-UW Domains Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Connecting in UW Housing As of 1st of February 2022, Connecting to eduroam via your UW NetID and password has been switched off and replaced with certificate-based authentication. If you’re unsure if your device uses a UW NetID/password or a certificate, then we recommend you reconfigure it using our tool. Please visit our Eduroam Onboarding Guide for step-by-step instructions or click onboard.wifi.uw.edu to onboard right away. On This Page Making the internet work for you Step 1 – Before you connect Step 2 – Making the connection Step 3 – Using the connection Making the internet work for you Welcome to the University of Washington! We are glad that you are here, and we want to help you get connected to all the computing resources that the University provides to you. This guide is designed to make connecting your computer to the UW network as painless as possible. UW Housing includes UW residence halls and UW-owned apartments. Your UW Housing room is equipped with access to the high-speed campus Ethernet network. This gives you fast access to email, UW Libraries, the MyUW website, UW class pages and information on the Web anywhere in the world. To connect your computer to the campus network, you need: If you are in a residence hall that does not have UW-IT managed wireless, you will need a computer with a 100/1000 Mbit/s Ethernet port and a cat-5e Ethernet cable. If you are in a residence hall where UW-IT provides wireless service you will need a computer with a wireless card that supports any combination of 802.11n/ac/ax. Software available on the Securing Your Computer page provides all the virus protection, terminal session and file transfer software you need to securely connect to and use UW computing and networking services. If you are living in a triple, the room may not have enough wall jacks to provide one connection per person. For these rooms, you will need to obtain a network switch. It is important that you know that the Internet is not always a safe place. Having high-speed access to the Internet is an important advantage for you in your studies. However, it also means that others have high-speed access to YOUR computer, YOUR files, and YOUR data! You need to take the steps in this document to protect yourself against viruses and other “bad” software being installed on your computer. Step 1 – Before you connect There are important steps that you should take BEFORE you get a working network connection. You’ll want to be sure your computer has: Working and up-to-date antivirus software installed All the available operating system updates installed Configured to automatically download and install updates The Secure your computer page provides all the virus protection, terminal session and file transfer software you need to securely connect to and use UW computing and networking services. Step 2 – Making the connection Connecting to the UW-IT managed wireless network If you live in a new residence hall or one that has been newly renovated, you will be able to connect to the UW-IT managed wireless network. To do this, you will need to have a computer with a wireless card that supports any combination of the 802.11a/g/n/ac/ax protocols. 802.11ac/ax is preferred and will give you higher throughput. StepsActions Ensure your device is switched on. Make sure your wireless adapter is activated and confirm you’re in a campus WiFi coverage area. You can do this by opening your WiFi settings menu and looking for the “eduroam” and “University of Washington” wireless network. Once you’ve confirmed you’re in a campus WiFi coverage area, connect to the “University of Washington” wireless network. If your device automatically opens the mini-browser, close it and open your web browser of choice. Do not enter your NetID and password if prompted, instead enter the URL http://onboard.wifi.uw.edu and follow the prompts to onboard your device. Once your device has been on-boarded, you will have full access to UW resources and the Internet. Residents are not permitted to have their own wireless routers in areas where there is UW-IT managed wireless available. See the Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms page. Connecting to the wired network in your room Only use the wired network if the “UW Housing” wireless network is unavailable or if your computer does not support wireless. Plug the Ethernet cable into the ORANGE wall jack. StepsActions You DO need a cat-5 Ethernet cable long enough to reach from your computer to the Ethernet wall jack. Cables can be purchased at the University Book Store or online. Your computer DOES need a functional Ethernet (10/100/1000Mbit/s) port. With your computer powered OFF, plug in one end of the drop cable to the ORANGE colored wall jack (see above) and the other to your computer’s Ethernet port. Be careful here, it is probably your one big chance for a mistake. The OTHER wall jack is for your telephone, and won’t work for Ethernet, even though the cable might fit. Turn on your computer and start browsing the Web! If this did not work, then StepsActions Check to make certain that you have plugged your Ethernet cable into the ORANGE wall jack. Check to make certain that you have plugged your Ethernet cable into the Ethernet port on your computer and not into your modem port. Check that your Ethernet port is configured properly. If you’ve previously configured your computer’s Ethernet port to use something other than the usual defaults, you must set it back to the defaults. The most important setting is to “use DHCP” or “Obtain IP address automatically.” Also, be sure to select “Obtain DNS server address automatically.” If you are living in a triple resident room, you won’t have enough wall jacks to provide one per resident. In this case a “network switch” can be used. If you are still having problems, then StepsActions Check to make certain that your Ethernet cable is not defective. Try using a different Ethernet cable. Very rarely, but it happens, you might have a bad Ethernet port on your computer. You should check your warranty and have your computer serviced. If you are still having problems configuring your device please contact the UW-IT Service Center. Step 3 – Using the connection Confirm that you have completed STEP 1 and that you have antivirus software installed, active, up-to-date, and configured to automatically update. Confirm that you have configured your computer itself to perform automatic updates of the operating system: Microsoft – Windows Security support Apple – How to update the software on your Mac Last reviewed February 17, 2021 Tags: Campus HousingConnectingInternet ConnectionWiFiWired InternetWireless Internet See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Connecting in UW Housing Hospitality Wi-Fi Access Points Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) Service Husky OnNet for Sponsored NetIDs Download and use Husky OnNet Update Husky OnNet Husky OnNet FAQs Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Phase 1: Remote Desktop and File-Sharing Applications Network Addresses at the UW Domain Naming System (DNS) IPv6 Next Generation Internet Protocol Private Address Routing Request Campus Subdomains and Non-UW Domains Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA