Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate UW Event Calendar Trumba Updates Home UW Event Calendar Trumba Fall 2021 Q&A Use Trumba’s T2 Editor Request a New Calendar Authorize Calendar Editors Make Your Calendar’s Web Site Accessible Display Your Calendar Online Trumba Videos Add and edit events Create Repeating, Recurring, and Multi-Day Events Import & Export Calendar Events Set up Event Registration Share Events on Other Calendars Show events on other calendars Delete a Calendar Publicize departmental events for students via MyUW Add an event to your personal calendar Subscribe an Academic Calendar Feed to Your Personal Calendar Trumba Updates UW Event Calendar Data Retention Policy UW Event Calendar Service Metrics Collaborating for Accessibility Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Trumba Updates Manage editors Did you know that any editor can add/delete other editors to/from their calendar? Learn more about how to authorize calendar editors. What’s new DEI event type Please select Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion for events with a major component aimed at teaching and learning about historically marginalized and underrepresented communities, increasing access to resources and opportunities for these communities and making connections among the diversity of people’s experiences. Event types are displayed on the main campus calendars, and units may chose to display them on their calendars . Trumba updates Trumba now has new editor views of calendar events and registration forms. For more information, see Work with advanced calendar views. Table view shows events in tabular format, with separate columns for the custom fields. Registration view includes separate columns with key registration data for the events. Filter events and show/hide canceled events You can now automatically hide or show canceled events on your published calendars, spuds, and feeds, using the new, built-in Canceled Event field. For more information, go to Setting up filters to hide or show canceled events. Bulk uncancel You can now uncancel multiple selected events, in bulk, using the “Select an action” drop-down on the List view in your Trumba editing environment. This new feature can be a real time saver as calendars are re-activated. For more information, go to How to cancel and uncancel events. Published view displays more quickly. Spud and event changes made in Trumba now display much more quickly on your live website. If you don’t see the changes immediately on your live website, wait just a minute or so, and then refresh the page. For more information, see Trumba’s FAQs. The permalink is now part of the URL, so you can easily bookmark or share the URL. For details, see Trumba’s Link to an Event documentation. Visitors can now share to a Facebook group. Calendar visitors can share Trumba events to their Facebook News Feed or Story, a page they manage, such as their business or organization page, or one of several other options. For more information, see Posting events to Facebook. Add Trumba calendars to SharePoint. You can now add a Trumba calendar (or other) spud or event submission form to modern SharePoint sites, using the new Trumba SharePoint web part. For more information, see Add calendars to SharePoint sites. More responsive mobile Links to event actions on event details pages are now more mobile-responsive, automatically adjusting for display on mobile devices. The links to the event actions now move, as appropriate, to the More Event Actions drop down, and back, depending on the available page width. For more information, go to Event detail views. See Trumba’s website for information on their latest releases. Announcing T2 – Spring 2020 Trumba released T2, a new version of their editor. Learn more about T2. New tile view We are pleased to add a new way to view events: tile view, which allows you to display more information about each event. To see an example of the tile view, visit the main campus calendar and select the tile view. To use the tile display on your calendar(s), send an email to help@uw.edu with the name(s) of your calendar(s). If you have a publisher account, you may add the tile view to your calendar(s). From the Publisher Control Panel, locate the Calendar Spuds tab, click Add a Calendar View, and select the tile view. We recommend you adjust the following settings: Use Smart widths and Variable heights (both enabled by default) For calendars with lots of events, group by Day. Otherwise, grouping by Week or Month may be more appropriate Event Action Display set to Single is recommended (for better usability) Add enough vertical and horizontal spacing between tiles (8px seems about right) Editor removal In order to maintain optimal conditions for the service, Trumba recommends removal of editor accounts that have been inactive for over one year. Therefore, the UW-IT Trumba team began removing inactive accounts in January 2020. We will send a notification in advance of removing inactive accounts. If you wish to remain an editor, simply log in to trumba.uw.edu before the removal date, and log in annually after that. And remember, you can always add and remove editors on your calendars. Login changes – September 2019 As uw.edu email addresses become more prevalent than those ending in @washington.edu, Trumba is adapting its sign-on process. This is a change we’ve been eagerly awaiting for some time now, one that should simplify the use of Trumba for everyone. On September 26th Trumba converted the sign-on system to use @uw.edu instead of @washington.edu. The following changes were made: @washington.edu email address were converted to @uw.edu. The only instance where you should still see @washington.edu records is cases where both the uw.edu and washington.edu versions of an email were registered for the same event. Records impacted Accounts including publisher, editor and visitor accounts Calendar Sharing Address Book Members Calendar Email Distribution Lists Event Email Distribution Lists Event Registrations Event Organizers In the My Events and My Submissions views, people using visitor accounts will now see all events they registered for using either uw.edu or washington.edu emails. Workflow after the conversion Users who have logged in using their UW NetID to register for an event will subsequently be able to log in to change their registration using their @uw.edu email address. Users will also be able to see all the events they have registered for using either the UW NetID login or their @uw.edu email address. After September 19, 2019, users who use their @washington.edu email address to register for events will need to use the same email address to find those events later. Access Trumba – February 2019 Editors can now access Trumba more easily using trumba.uw.edu. New Preview screen – October 19, 2017 In response to our survey feedback, Trumba made the following changes: The time required for changes to display in published calendars is shorter. Significant delay on the server side may still occur, but the overall delay time will be decreased. Preview functionality: you can now preview events without having to publish them. After you add an event, at the bottom of the screen, click the Preview button. Occasionally, the map does not display in the preview; Trumba is fixing this. *** Trumba updates-October 2017 Trumba made the following updates based on the survey results we shared with them: A bug that caused some editors to be signed out unexpectedly was fixed. Authentication cookies are now cleared out, so the infinite loop issue should be fixed. After signing in, you can now bookmark the URL, and then use the bookmark to visit Trumba on future visits. A new seven-day view is available in the editor’s event interface, giving you a view of the entire week at a time broken out by hour. Your published calendars now have a JSON feed available. The feeds support URL parameters for requesting specific date ranges, search parameters, and filter views. To find your JSON feed URL, type in the following address (substituting in your calendar’s Web name) http://www.trumba.com/calendars/your-calendar-web-name.json. Please email help@uw.edu if you experience any problems with the changes. Trumba is working on several other updates, and we will let you know when they have made changes. Your input is helpful! *** Survey feedback-September 2017 Thanks to the 218 editors who took our survey last spring. We appreciate the feedback and were pleased that few people reported major problems. Several editors said they were glad that Trumba is available at the UW. However, we did hear a few requests to improve functionality. We shared the survey findings with Trumba, including all of the comments (anonymously), and are working with them to make improvements. Among the responses, roughly 25% reported issues with logging in, managing events, posting events, and showing events on other calendars. The following high priority requests emerged: Address issues related to logging in and make it possible to bookmark the Trumba editor access page Reduce the delay between changes to events and rendering on web pages Provide customizable event registration forms Provide additional calendar display views For more information, read the editor survey report. *** Tip Reduce the delay between changes to events and rendering on web pages by using Ctrl+Reload to clear the cached browser page. Hold down the Shift key and left-click the Reload button Press “Ctrl + F5” or press “Ctrl + Shift + R” (Windows, Linux) Press “Command + Shift + R” (Mac) Last reviewed October 7, 2021 Tags: Event CalendarTrumba See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home UW Event Calendar Trumba Fall 2021 Q&A Use Trumba’s T2 Editor Request a New Calendar Authorize Calendar Editors Make Your Calendar’s Web Site Accessible Display Your Calendar Online Trumba Videos Add and edit events Create Repeating, Recurring, and Multi-Day Events Import & Export Calendar Events Set up Event Registration Share Events on Other Calendars Show events on other calendars Delete a Calendar Publicize departmental events for students via MyUW Add an event to your personal calendar Subscribe an Academic Calendar Feed to Your Personal Calendar Trumba Updates UW Event Calendar Data Retention Policy UW Event Calendar Service Metrics Collaborating for Accessibility My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA