Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Phones ADA Compliant Equipment Home Phones ADA Compliant Equipment Affiliated Organizations Campus Phones 6400 and 8400 Telephone Features 9408 Deskphone 9608/9611G Deskphones Avaya Workplace Softphone Campus Dial Tone Features Yealink W56P Conferencing – audio/video Conferencing Services UW Zoom Video Conferencing Customer Purchased Equipment Dialing Procedures Local Dialing Changes Long Distance Calling Directory Listings Extension Connect Interactive Voice Response (IVR) [RETIRED] Policies and Procedures Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewer Telecommuter VoIP Text Messaging Cadence Enterprise Texting Platform UW Telephone Service Basics Centralized Fax Service – Frequently Asked Questions Voicemail System Voice Mail Menus Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT ADA Compliant Equipment Access Guide for Persons With Disabilities (Facilities Services) Telephone Handset Amplifier University of Washington TTY Resource List To Order Service or Questions: help@uw.edu or call 206-221-5000 Amplified hand sets, TTY phones, and other devices designed to assist disabled users are available through the UW Information Technology Service Center. If necessary, such special equipment can be configured to meet individual user needs. Telephone Handset Amplifier The HA40 by Ameriphone can amplify the voice on the other end of your phone conversations, and is hearing aid compatible without generating feedback. The device connects to the handset on your telephone. To purchase the HA40, send an email request to help@uw.edu with a university budget number or call 206-221-5000. The one-time charge is $50, which includes installation and one 9-volt battery. Your department will need to supply replacement batteries. Feature button instructions Volume Control: Adjust the volume to the most comfortable listening level by moving the volume control slide switch. Boost Button: Press and hold down the boost button for more amplification. It also eliminates any background noise and feedback by muting the microphone in your handset. You must remember to release the button when you speak so that the other party can hear you, then press and hold the boost button again when they speak. Tone Control: Move the Tone Selector switch right or left to a position that allows you to hear clearly. This will give you the optimum speech clarity so that you can distinguish similar sounds such as “chair” and “share.” Battery Indicator: The battery indicator light comes on every time you lift your handset to indicate that the battery level is okay. If the indicator light does not come on, the battery needs to be replaced. IMPORTANT: Always disconnect the HA40 from the telephone before replacing the battery. When battery is drained, the handset will still be operable IF you move the volume control switch to the minimum position. While at any other setting, the handset will not work when the battery is drained. For normal usage, an alkaline battery will last for 6-12 months, while a regular battery will last 4-10 months. Problems If any problem arises in using your telephone, disconnect the handset amplifier from the telephone. Re-connect the handset to the telephone. If the problem disappears, then your handset amplifier needs to be repaired. If the problem does not go away when you disconnect the handset amplifier, then the problem lies in your telephone or in your telephone line. (Contact the UW Information Technology Service Center at help@uw.edu or 206-221-5000 for repair.) Warranty Ameriphone will repair or replace your handset amplifier for one year from the date of purchase if the unit is defective in workmanship or materials. (Battery is not included in warranty.) Proof of purchase is required. While the department would need to resolve the repair/warranty issue, the UW Information Technology Service Center can provide purchase information. Tags: AccessibilityAccessibility ServicesADAPhones See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Phones ADA Compliant Equipment Affiliated Organizations Campus Phones 6400 and 8400 Telephone Features 9408 Deskphone 9608/9611G Deskphones Avaya Workplace Softphone Campus Dial Tone Features Yealink W56P Conferencing – audio/video Conferencing Services UW Zoom Video Conferencing Customer Purchased Equipment Dialing Procedures Local Dialing Changes Long Distance Calling Directory Listings Extension Connect Interactive Voice Response (IVR) [RETIRED] Policies and Procedures Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewer Telecommuter VoIP Text Messaging Cadence Enterprise Texting Platform UW Telephone Service Basics Centralized Fax Service – Frequently Asked Questions Voicemail System Voice Mail Menus My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA