Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Teaching and Learning Technology Keys Home Teaching and Learning Student and Instructor Success Analytics Analytics Strategy Success Analytics Apps Data Science Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching during the pandemic UW-IT JupyterHub for Teaching Canvas Learning Management System Catalyst Web Tools Enterprise Training & Management System (Bridge) GradePage MyPlan Academic Planner MyUW Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture Pivot Advising Tool Poll Everywhere Prereq Map Scout™ Splunk Classroom Response Systems Create accessible documents, websites, and videos Supported browsers Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours 3D Printing & Consultation Technology Training LinkedIn Learning Equipment Tutorials Prepare for when classes can’t meet Accessible Information Technology Access Technology Center Classroom Furniture and Equipment Teaching and Learning Research 2020 UW-IT Survey on Researchers’ IT Needs Participate in pilots of new technologies Using Data to Support Teaching & Learning During a Pandemic Teaching and Learning Stories Profiles of Technology Use Teaching Guides Technology Keys Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Classroom Computers Mary Gates Hall Computer Classrooms Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Library Sound Studio Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Technology Keys Technology Keys secure classroom teaching equipment while keeping equipment available for instruction and scheduled events. Do I need a Technology Key? Depending on your assigned classroom, teaching methods, and/or use of classroom technology, a key may not be required. We highly encourage classroom users to visit their assigned room in advance, or view our Classroom Features page, to determine whether or not a key will be necessary in support of a class or scheduled event. Who may check out a Technology Key? Instructors and teaching assistants and check out Technology Keys on a quarterly basis. Event coordinators and Registered Student Organizations (RSOs) may temporarily check out a key, upon verification of room reservation, for up to seven days. Subject to time schedule verification, course instructors and teaching assistants will automatically have their key renewed when teaching during subsequent quarters; however, keys checked out longer than one academic year may be subject to proof of continued possession. How do I obtain a Technology Key? Eligible individuals may obtain a key by visiting the Academic Technologies office located in the basement of Kane Hall, Room 035 during normal business hours Monday – Friday, 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Photo identification (Husky Card and/or state-issued identification) is required. What else do I need to know? Keys must be checked out in person by the user of the key (they cannot be checked out on behalf of someone else). Keys will not be delivered. Only one key may be checked out per person per quarter. Keys are non-transferable. Checkout is made free of charge. However, lost keys are subject to a fee of $25.00 (budget) or $31.82 (check/charge). Refunds are available for recovered keys. Technology Keys do not unlock building/classroom doors. Custodial Services is responsible for daily unlocking/locking of building/classroom doors. Keys are University property and must be surrendered to Academic Technologies upon request at any time. Access to Classroom Technologies via Husky Card Academic Technologies is expanding a program to replace traditional locks, and the subsequent need for a Technology Key, with a modern access control system based on the Husky Card. Many general assignment classrooms with locked drawers and teaching podia have already been outfitted with this new technology. Instead of a traditional lock and key, Academic Technologies is deploying a RFID system that utilizes your Husky Card for unlocking classroom technology. On top of the classroom podium, in front of the touch panel, a reader has been installed that will scan your Husky Card. For instructors and teaching assistants, this will unlock the control system as well as the drawer to allow you access to the wireless microphone. The drawer will then re-lock after a few seconds. Simply tap your card on the reader again to unlock the drawer as necessary (for instance, to return the microphone at the end of class). As each user is separately identifiable via Husky Card, the control system will be able to remember your last used settings and, upon tapping your Husky Card, will recall those settings for your convenience. For example, if you use a laptop every day, upon tapping your Husky Card the control system will turn on the projector and then route the laptop input to the projector. Lighting settings are not part of the user preferences remembered by the control system. To see a demo system and try out your Husky Card access, simply stop by our office located in the basement of Kane Hall, Room 035. How do I know if I need a Husky Card or Technology Key? As we work to update classrooms across campus, you may need a Husky Card, Technology Key, or both. To determine what is required for your assigned room(s), please visit our Classroom Features page. When viewing a specific room, either “Husky Card Required for Equipment Access” or “Key Required for Equipment Access” will be displayed. What can I do with my old Technology Key? If you have determined that you no longer require a Technology Key for the current loan period, you may simply return it to the Academic Technologies office located in the basement of Kane Hall, Room 035. Our office hours are Monday – Friday, 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. What if my Husky Card is old and does not have a RFID chip? If you have a Husky Card issued prior to 2011, it most likely does not contain a RFID chip. Simply visit the Husky Card Account & ID Center located on the ground level of Odegaard Undergraduate Library and your card will be replaced free of charge. The RFID chip allows you to access other features such as U-Pass powered by ORCA (subscription required). What information is collected from my Husky Card? The RFID reader at the podium will read the unique identifier off of your Husky Card when you tap it on the podium. The reader does not access any other information stored on your card (including ORCA card information). How is the data transmitted and is it secure? The Husky Card unique identifier is encrypted and sent over the network to a secure UW server. The response, comprising your preferred name, UW NetID as well as your access permission, is encrypted by the server before being sent back to the system located in the classroom. What happens if I forget to log out of the system? If you do not log out of the system, the next user will continue to use your session. This could result in their preferences for the system settings, audio levels, and routed sources overwriting your preferences. Who can I contact if I have more questions? Academic Technologies Help Desk Email | Phone: 206-221-5000 Walk-in Location and Hours UW Mailbox: 353095 Last reviewed August 2, 2021 Tags: Equipment KeysHusky CardKeysRFID See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Teaching and Learning Student and Instructor Success Analytics Analytics Strategy Success Analytics Apps Data Science Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching during the pandemic UW-IT JupyterHub for Teaching Canvas Learning Management System Catalyst Web Tools Enterprise Training & Management System (Bridge) GradePage MyPlan Academic Planner MyUW Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture Pivot Advising Tool Poll Everywhere Prereq Map Scout™ Splunk Classroom Response Systems Create accessible documents, websites, and videos Supported browsers Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours 3D Printing & Consultation Technology Training LinkedIn Learning Equipment Tutorials Prepare for when classes can’t meet Accessible Information Technology Access Technology Center Classroom Furniture and Equipment Teaching and Learning Research 2020 UW-IT Survey on Researchers’ IT Needs Participate in pilots of new technologies Using Data to Support Teaching & Learning During a Pandemic Teaching and Learning Stories Profiles of Technology Use Teaching Guides Technology Keys Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Classroom Computers Mary Gates Hall Computer Classrooms Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Library Sound Studio My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA