Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Home Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Connecting in UW Housing Hospitality Wi-Fi Access Points Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) Service Husky OnNet for Sponsored NetIDs Download and use Husky OnNet Update Husky OnNet Husky OnNet FAQs Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Phase 1: Remote Desktop and File-Sharing Applications Network Addresses at the UW Domain Naming System (DNS) IPv6 Next Generation Internet Protocol Private Address Routing Request Campus Subdomains and Non-UW Domains Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Using Wi-Fi at the UW As of 1st of February 2022, Connecting to eduroam via your UW NetID and password has been switched off and replaced with certificate-based authentication. If you’re unsure if your device uses a UW NetID/password or a certificate, then we recommend you reconfigure it using our tool. Please visit our Eduroam Onboarding Guide for step-by-step instructions or click onboard.wifi.uw.edu to onboard right away. The University of Washington wireless (Wi-Fi) service is designed as a primary access method to UW networks for students, faculty and staff. UW-IT provides Wi-Fi coverage inside most buildings as well as some outdoor areas on all three UW campuses, research areas at South Lake Union and UW Medicine hospitals and clinics. Overview of UW wireless Connecting to UW Wi-Fi Wi-Fi locations Visitors and Visitor Access from other eduroam institutions Policy Overview of UW wireless UW Information Technology (UW-IT) offers three Wi-Fi networks for the UW community: Eduroam The eduroam network is an encrypted Wi-Fi network available at the UW, and it is the preferred Wi-Fi connection method for UW students, faculty and staff. The eduroam network is a general-purpose Wi-Fi network using private IP address space and WPA2 Enterprise encryption. It is available at UW Campuses, UW Facilities, UW Medical Centers and other eduroam connected institutions around the world. Users need to onboard their device to gain access to this Wi-Fi network. Onboarding information is available via the Eduroam page. UW-IT recommends connecting to the “eduroam” Wi-Fi network for the added security of encrypted data transmission and roaming. Wi-Fi Network Information: SSID: eduroam Type: 802.1X EAP-TLS Encryption: WPA2-Enterprise UW MPSK The UW MPSK network is an encrypted Wi-Fi network available at the UW, and it is the recommended Wi-Fi connection method for IoT, TVs and game consoles that require a Pre-Shared Key Wi-Fi network. The UW MPSK network is a special use Wi-Fi network using private IP address space and WPA2 Personal encryption. It is only available at UW Campuses and UW Facilities. Users need to register their device to gain access to this Wi-Fi network by visiting the Manual device registration page. Wi-Fi Network Information: SSID: UW MPSK Type: Pre-Shared Key Encryption: WPA2-Personal University of Washington The University of Washington network is an unencrypted Wi-Fi network available at the UW, and it is only recommended for devices that do not support eduroam or UW MPSK. The University of Washington network is a general-purpose Wi-Fi network using private IP address space. It is only available at UW Campuses, UW Facilities and UW Medical Centers. Users need to register their device to gain access to Internet resources outside the University of Washington network. A login page is presented via a Captive Portal in the user’s browser when the device first connects to this Wi-Fi network. Wi-Fi Network Information: SSID: University of Washington Type: Open System Authentication Encryption: None Connecting to UW Wi-Fi The UW’s Wi-Fi networks are eduroam, UW MPSK and University of Washington. Connecting to the eduroam Wi-Fi network Connecting to the UW MPSK Wi-Fi network Connecting to the University of Washington Wi-Fi network Connecting to eduroam The eduroam network is an encrypted Wi-Fi service that is recommended for most UW students, faculty and staff. The easiest way to configure your Wi-Fi device to access eduroam is to use our eduroam onboarding application. The eduroam onboarding application leverages technology from SecureW2 that supports most common devices and will help ensure that your device is properly and securely configured for eduroam. Once this process has been completed, you will be able to access eduroam on campus, UW Medicine locations and around the world at any institution that supports eduroam. Connecting to UW MPSK The UW MPSK network is an encrypted Wi-Fi service that is recommended for devices such as IoT, TV’s, and game consoles. To connect, register your device by visiting the Manual device registration page. Once successfully registered, a unique password will be generated for the device to use with the UW MPSK network. Your device’s unique MAC address is associated with the password generated and cannot be used with another device. Future access to UW MPSK will automatically connect as long as the network is in range. Connecting to University of Washington The University of Washington network is an unencrypted Wi-Fi service that is recommended for devices that do not support eduroam or UW MPSK networks. To connect, select the University of Washington Wi-Fi network on your device. If this is the first time your device is connecting, or it hasn’t connected to the University of Washington Wi-Fi network in some time, you will be prompted to enter your UW NetID and password. Once authentication is successful, the device will be registered and allowed access to the Internet. If the UW NetID login page does not display, open a web browser and go to a basic, un-encrypted website such as example.com. This should redirect you to the UW NetID login page. No login is required to use the wireless network to access services that reside inside the UW network. If your wireless device does not have a Web browser (e.g., some phones, printers, etc.), consider using the UW MPSK Wi-Fi network or our Manual device registration page. For access to the Internet at our UW Medicine hospitals and clinics, visitors not associated with UW may connect to the Patients and Visitors Wi-Fi network. Wi-Fi locations Indoor Wi-Fi Most UW Campus buildings offer indoor Wi-Fi connectivity for eduroam, UW MPSK and University of Washington Wi-Fi networks. Most UW Medical buildings offer indoor Wi-Fi connectivity for eduroam and University of Washington Wi-Fi networks. Outdoor Wi-Fi Outdoor Wi-Fi service is available in a number of locations across the UW Campuses. The maps below are interactive and show current UW Wi-Fi zones which are highlighted in purple. Planned UW Wi-Fi zones are highlighted in grey. Seattle Campus Tacoma Campus Bothell Campus Visitors and Visitor Access from other eduroam institutions Visitors from participating eduroam institutions can use the UW eduroam service to access the UW’s Wi-Fi network with no additional configuration required. For other visitors, UW staff or faculty members may sponsor a temporary UW NetID for visitor Wi-Fi access. Please review the Temporary UW NetID Support Roles and Responsibilities information before creating a temporary UW NetID. Temporary UW NetIDs are only valid on the UW Wi-Fi networks. Policy The UW Information Technology (UW-IT) organization manages all Wi-Fi on UW campuses, UW Medicine, and several remote locations. Do-it-yourself wireless networking is not allowed without express written authorization from UW-IT. Request for non-UW managed Wi-Fi may be submitted via email to help@uw.edu. Last reviewed February 8, 2022 Tags: Internet AccessInternet ConnectionRoutersWiFiWireless InternetWireless Routers See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Connecting in UW Housing Hospitality Wi-Fi Access Points Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) Service Husky OnNet for Sponsored NetIDs Download and use Husky OnNet Update Husky OnNet Husky OnNet FAQs Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Phase 1: Remote Desktop and File-Sharing Applications Network Addresses at the UW Domain Naming System (DNS) IPv6 Next Generation Internet Protocol Private Address Routing Request Campus Subdomains and Non-UW Domains Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA