Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect IT at the UW – Student Quick-Start Guide Home IT at the UW – Student Quick-Start Guide Top Tech Tips for UW Students Graduating Students: Preserve your UW Work IT at the UW View our quick-start guides about the technology tools and resources available at the UW. Students Staff Faculty Visitors Need help? Email: help@uw.edu Phone: 206-221-5000 Online: Help form In-person: Locations More info IT at the UW – Student Quick-Start Guide Related Information Technology for learning remotely UW Information Technology (UW-IT) provides computing and information technology services to help students build a successful academic career. The information below will help you navigate the variety of resources available to you at the UW. Check with your local IT department for their technology recommendations and guidelines. Get connected Practice safe computing Get software Get to work Need help? Get connected Connect to online resources at the UW, set up your UW NetID and email, find printers on campus. Connect to UW networks Wireless internet access is available throughout most buildings on campus and some outdoor areas around campus. Eduroam, UW-IT’s recommended Wi-Fi network, is a free encrypted Wi-Fi network that offers more security than the unencrypted general purpose University of Washington Wi-Fi network. Eduroam provides access to the internet at the UW and at any eduroam-enabled institution in the United States and around the world. Wired internet access is available in all residence rooms. Learn how to access UW networks from UW Housing. Husky OnNet provides individual users with a secure temporary connection to the UW network from remote locations. Learn about your UW NetID Your personal UW NetID (and its password) provides access to many UW online services including MyUW and UW Email. Your UW NetID verifies who you are, ensures the privacy of your personal information, and restricts the use of UW resources to authorized users. Two-factor authentication (2FA) adds a layer of security when you sign in with your UW NetID. With 2FA, first you enter your password, then use a 2FA device to prove it’s really you. 2FA is required to sign into Workday. We recommend using Duo Mobile on your smartphone because it’s free, secure, and simple to use. Duo Mobile creates no data on your device. Set up your email Students have two basic options for email—forward email to a non-UW email system, or use an email service offered through the UW, such as UW Gmail or UW Exchange Online (part of UW Office 365). Access your U Drive Store your work safely on UW servers with the U Drive. The U Drive provides students with a place to store files that can be accessed from anywhere, on- and off-campus, and everything on your U Drive is automatically backed up. Printing, scanning and copying Learn about the printing, scanning and copying services available through the UW Libraries. Practice safe computing Protect your computer, identity and privacy. Download your free antivirus software, and learn how to protect yourself on the web. Students receive a free license to use Sophos Antivirus Software on University-owned computers and on their personal computers, either on campus or at home. Use safe email practices, and report any abuse, harassment or suspicious email. Be mindful of phishing attempts, and follow the best practices to avoid phishing scams advised by the Office of the Chief Information Security Officer. Use caution when responding to offers both online and by mail. Ensure that any correspondence you receive came from an official source at the University of Washington. Caution: Computer backup and data protection plans are not offered to students by the University of Washington. Offers for such services received by parents or students do not come from the University of Washington, and the UW cannot verify they are legitimate. Get software Download essential software and discover online productivity tools available to empower your academic career. Explore the abundance of software downloads available to students. Check out your options for online collaboration software, including UW Google Apps and Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus. Work from anywhere by storing your documents in the cloud with Google Drive or UW OneDrive for Business. Get to work Find places to study, explore mobile apps for UW resources, check out technology workshops, borrow equipment, learn about campus events and more. Essential sites MyUW is the front portal of University of Washington for anybody with a UW NetID. Access the web resources you need to fulfill your goals at the university. MyPlan helps you create a plan for next quarter, next year, or all the way to graduation and audit your progress to explore academic programs and discover which courses you may need to complete your degree. Prereq Map makes it easier to navigate the complex landscape of prerequisites by visually representing the prerequisite relationships among courses. Prereq Map allows students to view not only the prerequisites for a course, but also what a course is a prerequisite for. Mobile UW brings the mobile apps for a wide range of UW services to your fingertips. The UW Event Calendar shows listings for events, performances, lectures, exhibits and more on all three campuses. Notify.UW sends notifications about course availability. UW NetID holders who subscribe to Notify.UW can choose to be notified via email and/or SMS text message when classes they are interested in either become available or close during quarter registration. Learning tools Canvas is the official learning management system of the UW, used in many UW courses. Panopto is the UW-IT supported lecture capture solution, allowing for easy recording and viewing of videos from courses, lectures and presentations. Poll Everywhere brings interactive learning to UW classes, and is the official audience response system of the UW. The Student Technology Loan Program allows students to borrow laptops, tablets, audiovisual tools and accessories. Scout can also help you find the technology tools and resources you need. Get help using many learning technologies: check out UW-IT’s online documentation. Study spaces Many technology spaces are available for student use—from learning commons to computer labs, classrooms to technology pods. Scout can help you find the perfect study space, campus food, and tech tools. Note: Many on-campus study spaces are currently closed due to COVID-19. For information about the status of spaces, check with departmental websites or contact the building’s facilities staff. Technology training Never used a piece of technology before, or need some help getting up to speed on the latest tools? Technology training is available to help you develop your information technology skills. Contact UW-IT Send your questions and comments about UW-IT services to our contacts below. UW-IT monitors its email and phones 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Email: help@uw.edu Phone: 206-221-5000 (also for emergencies) Submit a question using a Web form: Send a question to UW-IT Self-help information on the Web: IT Connect Check the status of your existing requests at My Requests Last reviewed September 16, 2020 Tags: Getting startedNew StudentsOrientationQuick StartStudents See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home IT at the UW – Student Quick-Start Guide Top Tech Tips for UW Students Graduating Students: Preserve your UW Work My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA