Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Network Portal Home Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Connecting in UW Housing Hospitality Wi-Fi Access Points Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) Service Husky OnNet for Sponsored NetIDs Download and use Husky OnNet Update Husky OnNet Husky OnNet FAQs Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Phase 1: Remote Desktop and File-Sharing Applications Network Addresses at the UW Domain Naming System (DNS) IPv6 Next Generation Internet Protocol Private Address Routing Request Campus Subdomains and Non-UW Domains Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Network Portal The UW-IT Network Management Portal provides access to information about your network connection and self-service administration of network services to authorized contacts. The portal can be accessed on both desktop and mobile devices. Once you are logged in to the portal, you’ll see relevant information about your network connection including your workstation’s IP address, MAC address, and an estimate of the network performance for the subnet (if the information is available). Features provided by the portal include: Information about your network connection Self-service administration of network services Ability to edit your contact information Advanced connection information, including DHCP lease, wall-port, and router information. Contact groups and contact group management: View the membership of groups you are a member of Add/remove contacts from the groups you manage (admin contacts only) View the resources belonging to a contact group you are a member of DNS Resources Developer API Network Portal FAQ Who is a Network Contact (NC)? NC is anyone responsible in some way for administration of network resources at a local (school, department, or unit) level. Historically, these were called subnet contacts and domain contacts, but the portal will eventually allow more and different resources to be administered. A NC has the ability to administer domain records, as well as IP addresses. NCs also may be a shared NetID or a distribution list, but we strongly recommend that you only grant the administrative contact role to a personal UW NetID, as this will enable auditing. We also strongly recommend you leverage the UW groups service to manage these network contacts as built-in dependency management can be used to automatically remove people who have separated from the University and it allows for the nesting of groups. What is a Contact Group? Currently, Contact Groups have domain names and subnets associated with them (more coming soon!), and the Contacts with the Administrator role can administer both the group and its resources. An NC can be in multiple groups. A contact group is the level at which access control in the networks portal applies. UW NetID records on individual domain names are used by certification services to allow individuals to request certificates for specific hosts. What Types of Network Contacts (NCs) are there? A NC has three possible roles: Billing Contact: this role will receive requests for payment for non-TRF-funded network resources. These include the periodic renewal of non-UW domain names and non-TRF-funded network ports. This role does not receive notices about network issues. Technical Contact: this role receives notices about resources managed by the group. These include the advisory notices from the Network Operations for maintenance work. Admin Contact: this role is allowed to manage resources and membership of their contact groups. What resources can be managed from the portal? IP addresses and many types of DNS records can be administered through the portal. If you are an administrator for these resources, you will not need to contact the NOC for anything other than an exception request (such as other record types, or if you are out of assignable IP addresses). The DNS record types that can be managed are: A IPv4 Address records – Name to IPv4 address. AAAA: IPv6 Address records – Name to IPv6 address. CNAME: Canonical name – Points an alias to the real name. You should avoid chaining CNAME records: point to the name that has some other record types. MX: Mail exchanger – Describes how mail is to be delivered for this domain TXT: IPv6 Address records – Name to IPv6 address. SRV: Service Record – Describes the port, protocol, and preferences used to reach a particular service. CAA: Certification Authority Administration – Describes which certification authorities are acceptable to issue for this domain. NS: Name Server records – Used to delegate authority over part of the DNS to other name servers PTR: Pointer records (Address to Name) There are also three special record types you can add: netid: Used for specific permission purposes: this grants permission to ask for certs. comment: This is just a comment that appears only here. Use it for anything you want. reservation: This is only for address records and is an advisory-only indication that the address is reserved for a particular person or purpose. Advisory-only means that it is possible to have multiple reservations or reservations and Address records for the same address. The networks port can modify the most common types requested by the NOC. Use the Contact Us icon at the top to make your request, and these will be handled using the current system. How do I use the API? You will need to obtain appropriate credentials for the contact group and write some code. The API can be accessed from any language capable of making https connections and handling JSON. Code samples in Perl and python and documentation on API functions are available: https://networks.uw.edu/networks/apidocs To generate credentials to use the API: Visit your list of contact groups: https://networks.uw.edu/networks/contact/groups Select the correct contact group. Generate or upload the authorization information. Last reviewed May 25, 2021 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Connecting in UW Housing Hospitality Wi-Fi Access Points Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) Service Husky OnNet for Sponsored NetIDs Download and use Husky OnNet Update Husky OnNet Husky OnNet FAQs Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Phase 1: Remote Desktop and File-Sharing Applications Network Addresses at the UW Domain Naming System (DNS) IPv6 Next Generation Internet Protocol Private Address Routing Request Campus Subdomains and Non-UW Domains Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA