Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Manage your identity Preferred name guideline Home Manage your identity Set your pronouns in Identity.UW Pronouns feedback Learn more about pronoun indicators Integrate pronouns from Identity.UW UW announces preferred names in 2016 Preferred name guideline Explore use of digital identity wallets Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Preferred name guideline NOTE: The original “Preferred Name Guideline” was published in 2016 as a PDF document. The entire content of that PDF document (except for the signatory parts) has been copied onto this webpage, to provide for enhanced content accessibility. NOTE: This guideline has been identified by Data Governance for a planned update for 2020-2021. Once it is updated, the information will be made available under polices, standards and guidelines. Purpose This guideline defines data management practices for the administration and appropriate use of preferred names. Overview Many members of the University community use a name other than their legal name to identify themselves. It is the name they go by and the one by which they prefer to be recognized and addressed. In order to serve a diverse community and foster a welcoming and supportive environment, the University should acknowledge the importance of choice of a preferred name. To do so requires data management practices that collect an individual’s preferred name separate from the individual’s legal name, so that each can be used where it is most appropriate. In general, legal names should be used in contexts where the UW has a legal obligation or other requirements to identify a person by means of a legal name. In contrast, preferred names should be used where there is no obligation to use a legal name. By differentiating between preferred and legal names, the University can enable use of names based on business need, individual preference, and align the governance of name data with the values, principles, and goals of the UW. Definition A preferred name is a name some people use to identify themselves in the University community instead of using their legal name. A preferred name tells others how a person prefers to be recognized and addressed. A preferred name is collected, managed, shared, and used for purposes where the University has no compliance or other regulatory requirements to use a legal name. Guidelines The University allows all registered members of its community to manage a preferred name. For individuals whose privacy preferences require greater confidentiality, the management of preferred names should be aligned with the management of privacy preferences to improve usability and transparency on how preferred names and other personal information will be combined, shared, and used. The University may constrain the collection of preferred names to a set of distinct name data components including, but not limited to, first name, middle name, and last name. The University will periodically evaluate additional and/or alternate name data components in order to enable more choices of preferred names. The University may constrain preferred names to a subset of possible characters in order to control costs and complexity and to enable the use of preferred names in as many contexts as possible. The University will periodically evaluate the pros and cons of modifying the allowed character set to enable more choices of preferred names. The University shall endeavor to use a preferred name for purposes where there is no obligation to use a legal name. The University may continue to use a legal name in some contexts where use of a preferred name is not feasible due to cost or other reasonable justification. The University shall endeavor to use and display preferred names in the format provided, preserving individual preferences for uppercase, lowercase, and other formatting. The University administers preferred names in ways that support individual preference while maintaining standards of conduct that safeguard business functions and protect the rights and freedoms of all members of its community. System operators and others using preferred names should report cases of possible misuse (e.g. offensive language, misrepresentation, passing off, avoidance of legal obligation) to help@uw.edu. Concurrence / Responsibility The undersigned concur with the observations and recommendations herein, and are in agreement with this guideline. NOTE: The original guideline was endorsed by the Data Management Committee on December 4, 2015, and signed by the then Associate Vice President for Planning and Management and Assistant Director for Identity and Access Management, with the support of the University Registrar and other primary data custodians for self-identification (identity and person) data. Last reviewed December 21, 2020 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Manage your identity Set your pronouns in Identity.UW Pronouns feedback Learn more about pronoun indicators Integrate pronouns from Identity.UW UW announces preferred names in 2016 Preferred name guideline Explore use of digital identity wallets My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA