Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Green Computing Home Acquiring software and hardware Green Computing Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Green Computing On This Page How You Can Help the UW Go Green ENERGY STAR and EPEAT Compliant Computer Packages Going Green at the UW How You Can Help the UW Go Green Recycle Wisely Older hardware consumes much more power than newer technologies. Upgrade when you can and take care in how you recycle your old equipment. Computers often contain dangerous chemicals such as lead, mercury, and arsenic that must be disposed of properly. Here are some ways you can recycle your old gear: UW computers and other electronics hardware can be turned over to UW Surplus Property. Personal property can be dropped off at businesses participating in the E-Cycle Washington program, which provides recycling of computers, monitors, laptops, and televisions, often at no charge. Information about participating businesses in Washington State is available at the Recycle Hotline site or by calling 1-800-RECYCLE. Buy Green Select computers and other electronics with attention to their environmental impact. Two programs can provide you with good background and information on how to make your choice. EPEAT system for evaluating and comparing environmental attributes of desktops, laptops, and monitors ENERGY STAR Computers describes Energy Star criteria and offers lists of products that qualify for the EnergyStar rating, including computers Be Energy Smart You can take these steps to cut down on the energy consumption of your computer and its peripherals: Power consumption settings for your computer are in the following locations: On Windows, go to Start -> Settings -> Control Panel -> Power Options On Macs, go to Apple -> System Preferences -> Energy Saver Encourage your computer to sleep when not being used. Review the Power Options for your computer (Energy Saver preferences on Macs). Shortening the time before your computer goes to sleep (which usually includes powering down the hard disk and turning off the monitor) can save power. Optimize your computer for better energy use when you are using it. Often settings that reduce power consumption are quite adequate for doing your work. See your computer or operating system instruction manual. Go Flat Flat monitors (especially LCD screens) use less energy than conventional tube monitors, provided you do not get too big a monitor. Very large monitors can consume a great deal of power, often much more than the computer and all its peripherals combined. Print Wisely Review your policies and procedures for their effect on printing. In some cases you are required to print and retain documents. On the other hand, often documents are printed for only brief use, such as to pass around at a meeting. Print only what you need Print on both sides Use recycled paper Conference Without Travel Why journey to distant places when you can participate in conferences and have discussions from your computer? A variety of voice and video conferencing services are available here at the UW. Many scientific, academic, and professional organizations now hold virtual conferences, often with features not available at in-person gatherings (such as immediately available audio and video of presentations). Power Down Explore ways to shut down equipment when not in use: Talk to your manager before making a practice of turning off your computer when not in use. Many computers are centrally managed and require that the computer be left on to receive updates, even when the user is logged out. Many devices consume power even when turned off (such as a TV/monitor that stays awake enough to sense a signal from a remote control). Review the instructions for such devices to see what power management options they have, or just unplug them when not in use. Peripherals like printers and scanners can be put on separate power strips, making it easy to turn them off when not in use. Power consumption monitors (for example, the Blueline Energy Monitor) can be useful for understanding just how much power you and others in your office are using and can help as you experiment with ways to reduce your power consumption. Think Virtual Many services are now available out on the Internet, giving you an alternative to acquiring hardware and software and setting up the service locally. In many cases the companies providing such services are using very energy efficient methods. When considering virtual services, review the vendor’s record and policy on resource consumption. ENERGY STAR and EPEAT Compliant Computer Packages eProcurement now offers ENERGY STAR and EPEAT compliant HP computer packages for purchase on UW budget numbers or with UW Procards. To see the available packages, take the following steps: StepsActions Go to the eProcurement Web site Click on the Access eProcurement logo. The Procurement Dashboard will appear. In the Search box, and click on CDW Government. Click on the Buy from Supplier button to see the list of products available through CDW. Scroll down to the UW Preconfigured Desktops, Laptops, Workstations, and Monitors section. Click on the category of hardware you are interested in. Click on the package that interests you and then on the Product Overview link. The energy and environmental standards rating will be in a box on the right side of the Product Overview. The University Bookstore Tech Center offers ENERGY STAR compliant computers for students, faculty and staff. Going Green at the UW Many people are working to help make the UW greener. UW Office of Environmental Stewardship & Sustainability (on Facebook) Facilities Services Conservation Roles Green Futures Research and Design Lab Tags: Go GreenGreenRecycle See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Acquiring software and hardware Green Computing My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA