Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Productivity Platforms Provision Access to UW-IT Services Home Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Google Changes Project UW Google Account & Data Deletion Google Drive Google Shared Drive Google Jamboard Google Groups Google Meet Google Forms Marketplace Apps Services Index YouTube Google Play Store Zoom Add-in UW Office 365 UW Office 365 Account & Data Deletion Collaboration Services Cortana Exchange Online Microsoft Forms Office 365 ProPlus Office Clients Office Store OneDrive for Business Planner Power BI Power Platform Project Online Services Index Visio Email and Calendaring Junk, Spam, and Phishing Email Missing Email Migrate Email and Data Migrate from UW Google to UW Office 365 Migrate from UW Google to Personal Google Migrate from UW Google to Personal, Non-Google Account Migrate from UW Office 365 to UW Google Migrate from UW Office 365 to Personal Account Export OneNote Notebooks Provision Access to UW-IT Services Productivity Platforms Stats Productivity Platforms Recharge Services Deprecated Services Email Modernization Program Google Hangouts & Google Chat Disabled SharePoint 2010 Retirement Project Skype for Business Retirement Services Index Services Sitemap Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Provision Access to UW-IT Services Overview Log in to the Provisioning Request Tool (PRT) What UW-IT services are available via the PRT? UW Medicine (aka Clinical) Shared UW NetIDs not available Provision access to UW-IT services for UW affiliates Provision access to UW-IT services for Shared and Admin UW NetIDs If you are a UW affiliate who needs access to UW-IT services Annual review requirement Help Overview Some UW NetIDs, including personal UW NetIDs belonging to UW affiliates as well as Shared UW NetIDs and Admin UW NetIDs, do not have default access to some UW-IT services. UW employees are able to provision (i.e. provide) access to some UW-IT services for other UW NetIDs by using the Provisioning Request Tool (PRT). Log in to the Provisioning Request Tool (PRT) Click here to log in to the Provisioning Request Tool (PRT) What UW-IT services are available via the PRT? The following UW-IT services are available via the PRT, though some services are not available for certain types of UW NetID: UW Canvas LMS and UW Panopto Lecture Capture (combined access) UW Google UW Office 365 UW Zoom Video Conferencing On this page, “UW-IT services” refers specifically to the services listed above. If you have questions about access to other UW-IT services, please email help@uw.edu. UW Medicine (aka Clinical) Shared UW NetIDs not available UW Medicine (aka Clinical) Shared UW NetIDs are excluded from the PRT and are not available when the owner of a Clinical Shared UW NetID accesses the PRT. Instead, Clinical Shared UW NetIDs automatically receive UW Office 365 services, and do not require the owner to use the PRT to provision UW Office 365 services. Provision access to UW-IT services for UW affiliates Access to UW-IT services may be provisioned to UW NetIDs belonging to UW affiliates who are performing work on behalf of or in support of UW and its faculty, staff, and students. Use of these services must follow UW’s Appropriate Use policies and may be subject to public records and other compliance-related disclosures. Any UW employee, regardless of role, may provision access to UW-IT services for UW affiliates if the following conditions are satisfied: Provisioning access to UW-IT services for UW affiliate(s) is necessary to support UW employee(s) in work (e.g., teaching or research) or administration; and In your position as a UW employee: You are responsible for supervising the UW affiliate(s) that would be provisioned for access to UW-IT services; or Within your department or organizational unit you are responsible for administering the allocation of access to resources; or The executive head of your department or organizational unit has expressly delegated to you the responsibility to supervise the provisioning of access to UW-IT services for UW affiliates. By provisioning access to UW-IT services for a UW affiliate, you are confirming that it is appropriate for the UW affiliate to have access to UW-IT services in order to conduct work relevant to the University of Washington. UW’s Appropriate Use policies apply to the UW affiliate’s use of UW-IT services. Additionally, Washington state laws, policies, and audit practices, as well as federal and state contract-compliance laws to which the UW is subject, require that state resources (e.g., computers and network) be used only for University-related activities. All University policies regarding the appropriate use of state resources and responsible personal conduct apply to the use of its computing and networking resources. In addition, use of computing resources must comply with the restrictions and acceptable practices established specifically for these resources. If you provision access to UW-IT services for a UW affiliate then you must communicate to the UW affiliate that their use of UW-IT services should respect others and must not interfere with the operation of UW computers and networks. If your department or organizational unit has specific rules about use of UW-IT services that are unique to your department or unit, then you must also communicate those specific rules to the UW affiliate. Provision access to UW-IT services for Shared and Admin UW NetIDs Some UW-IT services may also be provisioned to Shared and Admin UW NetIDs by their respective owners. The UW Attorney General’s Office has determined that only the owner of a Shared or Admin UW NetID can acknowledge UW’s Appropriate Use policies and take responsibility for proper use of UW-IT services. By provisioning access to UW-IT services for a Shared or Admin UW NetID, you are confirming that it is appropriate for that Shared or Admin UW NetID to have access to UW-IT services in order to conduct work relevant to the University of Washington. UW’s Appropriate Use policies apply to the use of UW-IT services, and these UW-IT services may be subject to public records and other compliance-related disclosures. Washington state laws, policies, and audit practices, as well as federal and state contract-compliance laws to which the UW is subject, require that state resources (e.g., computers and network) be used only for University-related activities. All University policies regarding the appropriate use of state resources and responsible personal conduct apply to the use of its computing and networking resources. In addition, use of computing resources must comply with the restrictions and acceptable practices established specifically for these resources. If you provision access to UW-IT services for a Shared or Admin UW NetID, then you are responsible for ensuring that use of UW-IT services provisioned for a Shared or Admin UW NetID should respect others and must not interfere with the operation of UW computers and networks. If your department or organizational unit has specific rules about use of UW-IT services that are unique to your department or unit, then you must also use UW-IT services in accordance with these rules. If you are a UW affiliate who needs access to UW-IT services First, contact a current UW employee with whom you are actively working with in your role at UW. This may be a different person than a contact from a previous role or relationship with the UW. For example, if you are a retired instructor who is now volunteering with Advancement, your contact would be in Advancement, not in your previous academic department. Next, inform the current UW employee (your contact) that you need access to UW-IT services and provide the current employee with: Your UW NetID A working email address (a personal, non-UW email address is acceptable) Then, instruct the current UW employee to log in to the Provisioning Request Tool (PRT) and provision you access to the UW-IT services you require using the UW NetID and working email address you provided. Please note: Your working email address will receive an email notification with instructions on how to activate your newly provisioned UW-IT services. You must follow the instructions in the email notification to activate your newly provisioned UW-IT services. Annual review requirement Access to UW-IT services provisioned by the PRT must be reviewed annually and either renewed or revoked, and will expire after one year if no action is taken. When access is revoked or access expires, access to all expired accounts will also be revoked. Additionally, all data within expired accounts may be deleted according to standard data deletion timelines. Other circumstances and affiliations may alter these timelines. In the case of a legal hold or an additional affiliation that grants access to an account, an account may not follow standard data deletion timelines. In the case of additional affiliations, the longest data deletion timeline will apply. Click here to access the Provisioning Request Tool (PRT). Email Notifications If you have used the PRT to provision access to UW-IT services, you will receive a notification email to remind you to log in to the PRT to review your existing provision(s). The first email will be sent 90 days before a provision expires. If you take no action, additional notification emails will be sent 30 days, 7 days, and 1 day prior to the expiration date of a provision. UW Affiliate NetIDs When a provision expires or the UW employee who provisioned access to a UW-IT service for the UW affiliate departs the UW, the UW affiliate will receive a notification email regarding expiring UW-IT services. The UW affiliate will have a 14-day grace period to find a new UW employee to provision continued access to a UW-IT service. If a new UW employee to provision continued access to a UW-IT service is not found, access will be revoked and the associated account and data may be deleted. Shared and Admin UW NetIDs When a provision expires or the owner of a Shared or Admin UW NetID departs the UW, other admins of the Shared or Admin UW NetID will receive a notification email regarding expiring UW-IT services. Other admins will have a 14-day grace period to: Take ownership of the Shared or Admin UW NetID; and Re-provision continued access to UW-IT services If this does not happen within the 14-day grace period, access to UW-IT services will be revoked and the associated account and data may be deleted. Help For help with the PRT, contact the UW-IT Technology Service Center at help@uw.edu or 206-221-5000. Last reviewed May 20, 2022 Tags: PRT See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Google Changes Project UW Google Account & Data Deletion Google Drive Google Shared Drive Google Jamboard Google Groups Google Meet Google Forms Marketplace Apps Services Index YouTube Google Play Store Zoom Add-in UW Office 365 UW Office 365 Account & Data Deletion Collaboration Services Cortana Exchange Online Microsoft Forms Office 365 ProPlus Office Clients Office Store OneDrive for Business Planner Power BI Power Platform Project Online Services Index Visio Email and Calendaring Junk, Spam, and Phishing Email Missing Email Migrate Email and Data Migrate from UW Google to UW Office 365 Migrate from UW Google to Personal Google Migrate from UW Google to Personal, Non-Google Account Migrate from UW Office 365 to UW Google Migrate from UW Office 365 to Personal Account Export OneNote Notebooks Provision Access to UW-IT Services Productivity Platforms Stats Productivity Platforms Recharge Services Deprecated Services Email Modernization Program Google Hangouts & Google Chat Disabled SharePoint 2010 Retirement Project Skype for Business Retirement Services Index Services Sitemap My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA