Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Productivity Platforms UW Google Home Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Google Changes Project UW Google Account & Data Deletion Google Drive Google Shared Drive Google Jamboard Google Groups Google Meet Google Forms Marketplace Apps Services Index YouTube Google Play Store Zoom Add-in UW Office 365 UW Office 365 Account & Data Deletion Collaboration Services Cortana Exchange Online Microsoft Forms Office 365 ProPlus Office Clients Office Store OneDrive for Business Planner Power BI Power Platform Project Online Services Index Visio Email and Calendaring Junk, Spam, and Phishing Email Missing Email Migrate Email and Data Migrate from UW Google to UW Office 365 Migrate from UW Google to Personal Google Migrate from UW Google to Personal, Non-Google Account Migrate from UW Office 365 to UW Google Migrate from UW Office 365 to Personal Account Export OneNote Notebooks Provision Access to UW-IT Services Productivity Platforms Stats Productivity Platforms Recharge Services Deprecated Services Email Modernization Program Google Hangouts & Google Chat Disabled SharePoint 2010 Retirement Project Skype for Business Retirement Services Index Services Sitemap Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT UW Google Please note: As of 8/25/21, the creation of new UW Google accounts for Shared UW NetIDs and the creation of new Google Shared Drives has been disabled. Additional changes to UW Google are likely. For more detail and regular updates, see UW Google Changes Project. About UW Google UW Google is UW-IT’s implementation of the Google productivity, collaboration, and email platform known as Google Workspace for Education, formerly known as Google G Suite and Google Apps. The UW Google service offering is similar to Google’s consumer apps, but is free of advertising and has greater privacy protections. Log in to UW Gmail Click here to log in to UW Gmail How To Guides Activate your UW Google account (step-by-step instructions) Using UW Groups with Google UW Google helps you to Send and receive email Share and view calendars to easily schedule meetings Store unlimited data Create web sites Note: Additional Google Services are also available, but are not FERPA-compatible. Data Retention Policy A single data retention policy does not apply to the UW Google service due to the broad scope of administrative, academic, and personal information created and stored via this service. Consequently, users of this service are responsible for managing and deleting their UW Google documents in accordance with University of Washington retention guidelines. For more information, please refer to the UW Records Management Services Web site. Known Issues Certain UW Google features are not activated in order to maintain student privacy. This includes features like Gmail Labs, and many of the Additional Apps found in the Google Marketplace. Learn more about Google from vendor’s Help Center Using Google at Work or School Google Learning Center Gmail Help Center Google Calendar Help Google Sites Help Google Drive Help Center The Official Gmail Blog Google Service Status Subscribe to Google updates Google Sending Limits On This Page Activating UW Google Using UW Google Setting Up UW Gmail to Work with Your Favorite Email Program Transferring Your UW Email to Your UW Gmail Account Using UW Groups to Manage Permissions in UW Google Getting Help Activating UW Google Before you can use UW Google, you must activate your account. You may activate your account without changing your current UW email forwarding to send new mail to UW Google. To activate your UW Google account, follow these steps: StepsActions Go to the Manage UW Google page to activate the service and set your UW Google password. Once activated, your Google login is your_uwnetid@uw.edu (where your_uwnetid is your actual UW NetID). If you want to forward your email to UW Gmail, use the UW NetID manage page and select “Forward to UW Google”. If you want to use Google without using Google’s email service, you can skip this step. Note to UW Medicine workforce members: You are prohibited from forwarding email to UW Google, as it is not HIPAA compatible. For more information on this policy, please contact comply@uw.edu. Using UW Google You can access UW Gmail and all other UW Google apps from your Gmail page. To access UW Gmail Click the following URL and log in with your UW NetID: http://gmail.uw.edu To access other UW G Google apps from your UW Gmail page In the upper right corner of the page, click the apps launcher (waffle) icon: Setting Up UW Gmail to Work with Your Favorite Email Program You can set up UW Gmail to work with most email programs and mobile devices using instructions provided by Google. If you use a desktop email program or mobile device to read your UW Gmail, you need to set a separate password through the Manage UW Google webpage. When using a desktop email program or mobile device, use @uw.edu with your UW Google password to log in. Using UW Groups to Manage Permissions in UW Google You can use UW Groups to manage permissions in UW Google. For more information, see UW Google Group Sharing. Getting Help If you have any problems activating UW Google or logging in, contact UW-IT at help@uw.edu or 206-221-5000. To learn more, read the Frequently Asked Questions. On This Page UW Google Core Services Google Consumer Services and Third-Party Services UW Google Core Services The following UW Google Core Services are covered by the UW Google enterprise agreement for use with your UWNetID@uw.edu Google account and are considered FERPA-aligned. Calendar Drive and Docs (Docs, Sheets, Forms, Slides, Drawings, and Classic Sites) Gmail Google Classic Hangouts Google Chrome Sync Google Meet Groups for Business (Created via UW Groups Service) Keep Tasks All other services are Google consumer or third-party services. See below for a partial list. Google Consumer Services and Third-Party Services These consumer services and third-party services are not subject to the same agreements we have in place for the core services and, most importantly, are not considered compliant with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Click to read more about FERPA for UW students and FERPA for UW faculty and staff. Google Consumer Services Picasa Organize, edit, and share your photos. Learn more. Groups Create and participate in online forums and email-based groups with a rich experience for community conversations. Learn more. Contacts Sync your contacts to all your devices. Learn more. Maps Find local businesses, view maps and get driving directions. Learn more. YouTube Talk to Google to get answers, find stuff nearby, and get things done. Learn more. News Read comprehensive up-to-date news coverage, aggregated from sources all over the world. Learn more. Translate Instantly translate text and web pages. Learn more. Wallet Shop in stores with all your loyalty, offers, and gift cards in one place. Learn more. Blogger Publish blogs and share text, photos, and video. Learn more. Code Find all Google developer documentation, resources, events, and products. Learn more. Tags: Google AppsGoogle G SuiteGoogle Workspace See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Google Changes Project UW Google Account & Data Deletion Google Drive Google Shared Drive Google Jamboard Google Groups Google Meet Google Forms Marketplace Apps Services Index YouTube Google Play Store Zoom Add-in UW Office 365 UW Office 365 Account & Data Deletion Collaboration Services Cortana Exchange Online Microsoft Forms Office 365 ProPlus Office Clients Office Store OneDrive for Business Planner Power BI Power Platform Project Online Services Index Visio Email and Calendaring Junk, Spam, and Phishing Email Missing Email Migrate Email and Data Migrate from UW Google to UW Office 365 Migrate from UW Google to Personal Google Migrate from UW Google to Personal, Non-Google Account Migrate from UW Office 365 to UW Google Migrate from UW Office 365 to Personal Account Export OneNote Notebooks Provision Access to UW-IT Services Productivity Platforms Stats Productivity Platforms Recharge Services Deprecated Services Email Modernization Program Google Hangouts & Google Chat Disabled SharePoint 2010 Retirement Project Skype for Business Retirement Services Index Services Sitemap My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA