Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Teaching and Learning Student and Instructor Success Analytics Analytics Strategy Home Student and Instructor Success Analytics Analytics Strategy Success Analytics Apps Data Science Projects Reports Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Analytics Strategy Related Information AXDD Analytics Strategy 2021 AXDD Analytics Strategy 2020 AXDD Analytics Strategy 2019 Student & Instructor Success Analytics Objectives and Strategy AY 2021-22 Student and Instructor Success Analytics (SISA) is a program in UW-IT’s Academic Experience Design & Delivery (AXDD) unit. SISA’s mission is to improve the student and instructor experience through online tools and analytics powered by cutting-edge data science. Each year, we recount the progress on the past year’s objectives and discuss our objectives for the upcoming year. Executive summary During the 2020-21 academic year, the SISA Program exceeded expectations by not only achieving its objectives, but expanding the scope of one objective in order to support students during the pandemic. To achieve our first objective, we developed an app that displays learner data and predictive analytics to improve student success among students in OMA&D’s academic programs including underrepresented STEM students . The team was able to expand the service to three additional student populations that were deemed vulnerable. In support of our second objective, by the end of AY 2020-21, we had begun development of DawgPath, an app that combines data from Prereq Map, Pivot, and Beaten Paths to support academic planning and discovery. Finally, we have invested in our analytics infrastructure (objective 3) and supported online teaching and learning with data science and analyses (objective 4). The SISA Program’s objectives for 2021-2022 are: (1) Support student success initiatives by launching Compass, a student success dashboard, expand RAD to serve UW Athletics, and pilot RAD with an academic department; (2) Support academic discovery by launching DawgPath; and (3) Pilot a data platform for AXDD’s learning records store. Reflecting on our AY 2020-21 Objectives Our first objective of AY 2020-2021 was to develop an app that displays learner data and predictive analytics to improve student success among students in OMA&D’s programs including underrepresented STEM students. The team met this goal and expanded the service to students who were especially vulnerable during the pandemic: pre-major students, incoming freshman, and international students. As more units across the three campuses learned about the Retention Analytics Dashboard (RAD), we received requests to expand the app to include additional student groups. As RAD grew in popularity, we realized that additional consultation would help us deliver optimal experiences for the service. Thus launched the RAD steering committee, which is formulating recommendations for four areas related to RAD: (1) outreach strategies, (2) additional data for RAD, (3) RAD expansion, and (4) privacy and the ethical use of student data. Most significantly, we also conducted analyses that demonstrate the efficacy of RAD’s data at identifying struggling students. Our second objective was to improve and integrate our current products and prototypes. By the end of AY 2020-21 we had begun development of DawgPath, an app that combines data from Prereq Map, Pivot, and Beaten Paths to support academic planning and discovery. As a result of this progress, we are poised to launch DawgPath and sunset the aforementioned production applications and prototype. Our third objective was to put in place the infrastructure to feed the analytics engine for our student success work. We surveyed a variety of vendor platforms and, initially began building our own, before abandoning that approach. However, that effort helped us to identify a good vendor candidate in Unizin and we will pilot the platform this academic year. Objectives, AY 2021-22 1. Launch Compass, a student success advising dashboard, and expand RAD Redesign and launch Compass In 2019, AXDD and OMA&D began a partnership that aimed to increase student retention in Educational Opportunity Program students, which led to the development of RAD. Currently, this tool is accessed via a link in Compass, a homegrown advising platform that includes detailed student information and notes from advising appointments. Despite the usefulness of the tool, the technology that powers Compass needs to be modernized. Working closely with OMA&D advisers and their leadership, AXDD will redesign and pilot a new Compass, with a goal of launching the tool Autumn 2022. In the short term, a redesigned Compass with new and improved features will greatly benefit OMA&D, which supports the most academically vulnerable students. This is also an opportunity to lay a foundation for developing a campus-wide student success platform that replaces the outdated tools advisers are currently utilizing. Expand RAD to serve Athletics and an academic department This past academic year, we have launched a RAD view for the Integrated Social Sciences and UW Tacoma, and this academic year we will launch a view for Athletics. An additional goal is to pilot RAD with an academic department. 2. Launch DawgPath and sunset Prereq Map and Pivot This past academic year, the data science and UX work for a new academic planning and discovery tool called DawgPath wrapped up and development of the app is currently underway. This academic year we will complete development and testing, execute a marketing and communication plan, launch the tool, and sunset two tools that DawgPath replaces, Pivot and Prereq Map. Additionally, we plan to release the following features in DawgPath: (1) a student profile that includes career interests, intended major, and other attributes; (2) a feature that helps students make connections between industries and UW majors; and (3) a course and major recommendation system. If time permits, we will also release features that help students identify gateway courses (high-demand courses that open up substantial course-taking opportunities) and bottleneck courses (high-demand, required courses.) 3. Determine best platform to drive our analytics work and begin phase 1 build out We are currently in the process of developing a learning records store (LRS) that will collect fine-grained learner data from various online tools (e.g., Canvas, Panopto). We have designed a reference architecture with several peer universities and industry partners and have made progress on the initial phases of LRS development. The objective for this year is to evaluate the Unizin Data Platform for its potential as the infrastructure to build an LRS, support end-user analytics applications, and enable academic analytics exploration by UW-IT data scientists. Last reviewed November 10, 2021 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Student and Instructor Success Analytics Analytics Strategy Success Analytics Apps Data Science Projects Reports My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA