Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Return to campus technology guide Home Work Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Understand Data Administrative systems Keynes UW Connect Enterprise Document Management (EDM) eSignatures Rome Billing Management Training for Administrative Systems Appropriate use Public Records Act Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Usage Policies and Guidelines for Cloud Services Use of Public Resources for Campaigning UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture Engaging with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture (EA) at UW Getting Started with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture Resources IT Inclusive Language Guide IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning, Assessment and Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management IT Standards Prepare for business disruptions Printing Resources for technical staff Microsoft Technology Community Return to campus technology guide User Experience (UX) Design Resources UW-IT Billing UW-IT Design Guide Cable, Pathway, Wi-Fi Materials & Services Contract UW-IT Service Catalog UWFT Technical (FTT) Workday Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Return to campus technology guide Welcome Back! Need help? If you need help getting your technology up and running, you can get help on all three campuses. Get Help We hope you’re as excited as we are to be headed back to campus this fall. A lot of things have changed since the UW went largely remote for teaching, learning and working, and the technology that powers the UW is no exception. This page offers considerations and reminders for what you should do when you get back to campus and how to be productive when you collaborate with others that might not be in the same room. And whether you’re on- or off-campus, the UW offers many technology tools and services to help you succeed at the UW. Also be sure to check with your unit or departmental IT for what they recommend. Equipment and devices Wi-Fi and network connectivity Support remote teaching, learning and work General reminders Equipment and devices Remember your 2FA device To better protect personal and institutional data, all UW staff (not in UW Medicine), as well as UW Bothell faculty, are required to use two-factor authentication (2FA) when signing in with UW NetID on the web. To reduce how often you have to use 2FA, use the remember me option on computers and other devices you trust to protect your browser. Update any equipment or devices you haven’t used in a while. Ensure any operating system updates are installed on your computer, especially any critical security patches such as updates to address PrintNightmare. Check with your department’s technology experts for any updates or recommendations specific to you. Install any software updates that have been released since you last used a device UW Zoom is periodically updated, and some updates are required to continue using Zoom. Install updates for UW Zoom that were released since you last used the program. Install any updates to your anti-virus software to ensure your device is protected. If you’re having trouble with your UW phone, please contact help@uw.edu. Replacing computers and devices Did you acquire computers or devices to facilitate teaching, learning, or working remotely? Or will you be replacing on-campus equipment once you return? Laptops can help minimize the challenges of a hybrid working environment by providing flexibility for where work or meetings occur. Laptops frequently also come with a camera and microphone built in, allowing for easy virtual meeting participation. Check with your departmental IT for their processes on acquiring new hardware and devices. Be sure to dispose of old computers and devices securely. Old desktops, laptops, and mobile and portable storage devices may contain UW information, such as personally identifiable information, cached login credentials, or other confidential data that can be compromised if the device is not securely disposed. Check with your departmental or campus IT for their policy and process for disposing of old computers and devices. Protect your personal information and UW data by taking steps to secure any new computer or device you acquire, and follow the policies of your department for what software and practices they use to ensure computers are secure. Borrowed equipment If you borrowed equipment or peripherals from the UW or your department, or your department let you take home equipment to facilitate teaching, learning, and working remotely, be sure to understand any expectations or policies about continuing to use or returning what you borrowed. These policies will likely be specific to where you borrowed from so check with the appropriate contact from that department or program. Wi-Fi and network connectivity Outdoor Wi-Fi Are you more comfortable spending time outdoors when possible? The UW’s Wi-Fi network has you covered. The UW has been expanding its outdoor Wi-Fi connectivity; Outdoor Wi-Fi is available in most areas of the UW Bothell and UW Tacoma campuses and in select areas of the UW Seattle campus. Connect to the eduroam Wi-Fi network Eduroam is a secure, encrypted Wi-Fi network available at the UW, and the preferred Wi-Fi connection method for UW students, faculty and staff. Visit the eduroam onboarding guide to get connected. Having Wi-Fi problems on campus networks? Because technology changes fast and some device updates may cause Wi-Fi connection issues on UW networks, be sure to check out the Wi-Fi notifications page for answers. For example, you can find out how to fix connection issues if you’ve updated to Android 11 and Apple’s release of iOS14. The latest release of Samsung One UI 3.1 for Android 11 has introduced a feature called “Deep Sleeping Apps” that breaks the functionality of SecureW2 JoinNow and may cause the device to fail to join the eduroam Wi-Fi network. More information. If you have updated your Apple devices to the latest iOS14 release, you may experience some issues trying to log on to the UW Wi-Fi network when on campus. Follow these steps to stay connected. Changes to the eduroam network at the UW require all devices to re-onboard. If you haven’t connected to the eduroam network since before May 2020, visit the eduroam onboarding guide to get re-connected to the eduroam network. Security updates to Android 11 may have interrupted your devices’ eduroam wireless connection on campus. Android 11 users who have issues connecting to eduroam should delete the “eduroam” Wi-Fi profile and onboard their device again. Android 11 users who have on-boarded their device via the onboarding tool since May 1, 2020 are not affected by this change. Support remote teaching, learning, and work While the UW is safely returning for in-person instruction and activities this fall, many of our peers and coworkers may still be remote at times, and an increased need to work remotely is possible. Online storage Store your files and work in the cloud with the many online storage options the UW offers, so you can access it from anywhere, on or off campus. See additional online storage options for UW Tacoma. Productivity platforms The UW offers two robust and feature-rich productivity platforms, both of which you can use from anywhere there’s an internet connection. Explore your options with both UW Office 365 and UW Google. Both platforms let you collaborate with peers remotely. Virtual meeting attendance Use UW Zoom, Microsoft Teams, or set up a conference call to let people attend meetings remotely. Make it a habit to include a virtual attendance link in your meeting invitations. Creating a successful hybrid environment Refer to UW Human Resources Creating a successful hybrid environment for guidance on preparing your team or department for a combination of telework and on-site work. The guide will help you establish norms for hybrid work, ensure the inclusion of peers who are remote, and optimize meeting rooms for virtual attendance. General reminders Review and update your Preferred Name. Use Identity.UW to indicate the name you go by on an everyday basis at the UW. Your preferred name is used in the UW Directory, UW Zoom, UW Office 365, UW Google, and many services (including Husky Card) that aren’t required to use your legal name. Remember to keep your UW Office Directory information up to date. Keep your department, school or center information up to date using the self-service system for the UW Office Directory. Contact UW-IT at help@uw.edu for UW Office Directory account setup, instructions and a style guide. Set your UW NetID recovery Options. Every year, more than 5,000 calls come in requesting help to reset a UW NetID password. You don’t have to be one of them. Add your mobile number and email address, so if you forget your password or get locked out, you can regain access to your UW NetID. The options allow you to recover your password by having a verification code sent to you by phone (text message or voice) or by email. Get Help Send your questions and comments about technology tools and services to our contacts below. Seattle Tacoma Bothell Email: help@uw.edu Phone: 206-221-5000 More info: UW-IT Email: tachelp@uw.edu Phone: 253-692-4357 More info: Tacoma IT Email: help@uw.edu Phone: 206-221-5000 More info: Bothell IT Last reviewed August 27, 2021 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Work Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Understand Data Administrative systems Keynes UW Connect Enterprise Document Management (EDM) eSignatures Rome Billing Management Training for Administrative Systems Appropriate use Public Records Act Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Usage Policies and Guidelines for Cloud Services Use of Public Resources for Campaigning UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture Engaging with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture (EA) at UW Getting Started with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture Resources IT Inclusive Language Guide IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning, Assessment and Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management IT Standards Prepare for business disruptions Printing Resources for technical staff Microsoft Technology Community Return to campus technology guide User Experience (UX) Design Resources UW-IT Billing UW-IT Design Guide Cable, Pathway, Wi-Fi Materials & Services Contract UW-IT Service Catalog UWFT Technical (FTT) Workday Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA