Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Software & Hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Microsoft Campus License Agreement Details Home Software for the UW (UWare) Microsoft Campus License Agreement Details Microsoft Service Level Changes Microsoft Campus Agreement FAQ UW annual software renewal opt-out request Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Microsoft Campus License Agreement Details Microsoft Campus Agreement 2021-202x Note: The information below is incomplete, however it is the best currently available as of 02/17/2021. Check back regularly for updates. Overview Microsoft has changed the licensing structure for many services and products it provides to the University of Washington. The UW is contractually obligated to comply with applicable license and pricing changes, which go into effect on June 1, 2021. This year is significant as it marks the end of our previous 3 year agreement, a new agreement of as yet to be determined length will need to be signed. The situation is fluid and information will be posted to this site as significant decisions are made. Some Microsoft services and product licenses are, and will continue to be, funded centrally with support from the UW-IT Technology Recharge fee, while other services are, or will be, purchased by and/or billed directly to the departments or users that need them. The most notable change so far for 2021 will be the deprecation of the on-prem licensing of Visio and Project. Due to escalating costs and diminishing functionality, we are dropping these products from the contract in favor of providing access to the subscription based licensing Microsoft is using going forward. Click on these links for information about Visio Plan 2 and Project Plan 3 and 5. Student staff will now excluded from the Education Qualified User (EQU) headcount. This primarily affects user counts and not the end user experience, no experiential changes are expected at this time. Microsoft Campus Agreement 2019-2021 Overview Microsoft has changed the licensing structure for many services and products it provides to the University of Washington, moving from a site license based on headcount to a named user license. The UW is contractually obligated to comply with applicable license and pricing changes, which go into effect on June 1, 2019. Some Microsoft services and product licenses are, and will continue to be, funded centrally with support from the UW-IT Technology Recharge fee, while other services are, or will be, purchased by and/or billed directly to the departments or users that need them. Note: The information below is incomplete, however it is the best currently available. Check back regularly for updates. How do Microsoft licensing changes affect you/your department? For end users there will be very little change in the user experience; most should not notice a change at all. For IT professionals there are several changes to be aware of, as detailed below. On This Page: Microsoft 365 A3 Microsoft Office Suite for Windows Microsoft Office for Mac Office 365 Suite Premium Services Project Desktop Client Project Online Server Visio Desktop Client Visio Online Microsoft 365 A5 On Premise Server Licenses & CALs Microsoft EMS E3 Microsoft 365 A3 Microsoft 365 A3 includes quite a few licenses, most notably including: Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise Office 365 A3 (Exchange Online (Plan 2), Sharepoint Online (Plan 2), Microsoft Teams, and more) Enterprise EMS 3 Azure Information Protection P1 Intune All UW employees and student user account are eligible for Microsoft 365 A3. Additional user accounts may become eligible via provisioning–see https://itconnect.uw.edu/connect/email/resources/affiliate-access/ or https://itconnect.uw.edu/connect/email/resources/endorse-uw-netids/. Microsoft Office Suite for Windows Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise (was Office 365 ProPlus) will continue to be available via the Microsoft 365 A3 license and will always be the most feature-rich, up-to-date version of the Office Suite. Office Professional Plus 2019 will continue to be delivered through UWare and activated via KMS for UW-owned equipment. Microsoft is not providing MSI as a deployment methodology for Office Professional Plus 2019, however, and is instead providing the Office Deployment Tool. Office Professional 2016 will continue to be delivered through UWare as an MSI file and activated via campus KMS for UW-owned equipment. ** Both Office 2019 and 2016 are feature-locked and will not receive new feature updates, just security patches. Click here to see the differences between Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise and Office 2019. Microsoft Office for Mac Microsoft 365 Apps for Enterprise (was Office 365 ProPlus) will continue to be available via the Microsoft 365 A3 license and will always be the most feature-rich, up-to-date version of the Office Suite. Office 2019 and Office 2016 will continue to be delivered through UWare for UW-owned equipment. Office 365 Suite For most users of Office 365 there will be little or no change in the user experience. There may be additional Office 365 functionality available in the future but details are still being determined. For current users of the Office 365 premium services listed below, there may be significant changes to the way premium services are licensed and/or accessed. Please read on for more information. Additional information about these changes will also be provided to premium service users on a targeted basis in the coming months. Premium Services Project Online Server Services SharePoint Online web sites that have been expanded with the Project Online Service require special Client Access Licenses (CAL) to access sets of features on those sites. Microsoft had previously granted a licensing equivalent of the Premium CAL for these services as a benefit of our purchase of the Project Desktop client distributed through UWare. Starting June 1, 2019, Microsoft is no longer providing this benefit which may leave customers without adequate access rights. Users will be downgraded on or around June 1, 2019, to a Project Online Essentials license which only supplies licensing rights to do task time tracking and viewing. Visio Desktop Client UW-owned equipment: The Visio desktop client will continue to be delivered through UWare/Enterprise Software service and activated via campus KMS for UW-owned equipment, as it currently is today. BYOD access: Will not be offered as a generally available offering or on per user basis until a unified UW-IT recharge service is in place. Visio Online Visio Online (aka Visio web app) is being removed from UW’s Office 365 environment to its own separate purchase. UW users will no longer be able to edit Visio via a web browser after September 30, 2019. They will continue to be able to read documents online. Edit access will not be offered as a generally available offering or on per user basis until a unified UW-IT recharge service is in place to allow the recharge of Visio Plan 1. Microsoft 365 A5 This premium license suite includes two license SKUs: Office 365 A5 EMS A5 Each of these license SKUs has a variety of possible license plans included; however, UW-IT is not ready to support all capabilities at this time. What is listed here is what UW-IT plans to initially support: Azure Information Protection Premium P2 Skype for Business/Teams Dial-in Conferencing Power BI Pro Customer Lock Box Exchange Online Advanced Threat Protection (limited features) To find out more about possible capabilities, please contact UW-IT at help@uw.edu for more information. On-premises Microsoft Server Licenses and Client Access Licenses The following products are covered under the campus agreement, via the Enrollment for Server Platform, Academic benefits (unless otherwise noted): Windows Server System Center Configuration Manager System Center Operations Manager System Center Orchestrator System Center Virtual Machine Manager System Center Service Manager System Center Data Protection Manager Exchange Server (CALs are covered via the Office 365 A3, see eligibility) SharePoint Server (CALs are covered via the Office 365 A3, see eligibility) Lync Server (CALs are covered via the Office 365 A3, see eligibility) Windows RDS CALs for employees (Students are not covered) For each of these products, the server license is provided (provided the computer is owned by the UW). Client access licenses for these products are covered for the UW population. To obtain software for these products, click here. Microsoft EMS E3 The Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security E3 licensing SKU is included in our new contract with eligibility for employees and students. The following licensing plans are included: Intune Intune is a cloud-based device management tool. Only a single instance of Intune is allowed in our Azure AD tenant, so a shared service needs to be designed before UW customers might leverage this new capability. Azure Information Protection P1 Azure Information Protection (sometimes called Azure Rights Management) provides the ability to protect files and other data objects by encrypting them. Some applications provide more protection capabilities via deeper integration. This license allows users to enable protection for a given file, provided they have the necessary client software. All access to a protected file is audited and the file owner can revoke access centrally. The ability to normally interact with a protected file is free, but only those granted access are able to do so. Protected files remain protected regardless of where they are moved or copied to. This capability is available now; for more information please see our documentation. Support Departments with a demonstrated business requirement for the Premium Services noted above are requested to contact the UW-IT Technology Service Center at help@uw.edu to arrange applicable enterprise special orders no later than April 15, 2020, to be available by July 1, 2020. Microsoft Campus Agreement 2018-2019 Summary The UW’s Microsoft Campus Agreement has been renewed for the period of April 1, 2018 to May 31, 2019 with no significant changes from the previous year. Software already deployed and in use will continue to be activated (and re-activated) as before. The Microsoft software provided by past agreements remains available under the new agreement, including the following: Microsoft Windows Enterprise (upgrade) Office 2013 and 2016 for Windows Office 2011 and 2016 for Macintosh Office 365 ProPlus Visio 2013 and 2016 Professional Project 2013 and 2016 Professional Visual Studio Visual Studio Pro, with Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN), has been provided to individual UW staff under individual named subscriptions. Beginning with renewals on June 1st, 2019, UW-IT will automatically renew Visual Studio subscriptions, charging the same budgets as the previous year. Please contact UW-IT at help@uw.edu if you do not want your subscription renewed. The fee for Visual Studio Pro with MSDN, expiring 5/31/2020, is $60. The fee for Visual Studio Enterprise with MSDN, expiring 5/31/2020, is $335. Use DreamSpark for computing labs and for students and faculty –- for instructional and non-commercial research purposes only. NOTE: Usage guidelines are strict – see DreamSpark and Visual Studio page. Last reviewed December 1, 2021 Tags: Microsoft Licensing ChangesMSLM See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Software for the UW (UWare) Microsoft Campus License Agreement Details Microsoft Service Level Changes Microsoft Campus Agreement FAQ UW annual software renewal opt-out request My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA