Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Enterprise Architecture Getting Started with Enterprise Architecture Home Enterprise Architecture Engaging with Enterprise Architecture Communities of Practice Events Enterprise Architecture (EA) at UW Change Lifecycle EA Charge and Architectural Value Getting Started with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture Resources Methods Reference Architectures Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Getting Started with Enterprise Architecture Set a Strategy 🗺 Strategy development helps any group align on drivers and outcomes. What factors are driving change for us, and what outcomes do we want to achieve? These questions are equally relevant for planning a new or existing service, project, or technology solution. The Strategy on a Page method provides a simple way to facilitate strategy discussions. Drafting a strategy enables Stakeholder Engagement, allowing you to get input from customers, sponsors, and partners. Later the strategy becomes both a planning and communication tool. Before people can formulate a strategy, often they need more shared context. Business Process Mapping is a common way to build shared understanding of how value is delivered today and what obstacles a strategy needs to overcome. Capability Mapping identifies what the organization needs to be able to do to succeed, which can identify current or future gaps that point to goals for strategy. As you define a strategy, also take a look at existing strategies around you: UW Sustainable Academic Business Plan UW-IT Strategy and Strategic Goals Need help getting started? Request a consultation from the EA team. Define a Service 📝 The concept of a service helps you plan how to provide long-term value to customers. A service includes not just a solution, but everything needed to effectively enable people to adopt it, operate the solution long-term, and support its users. To envision a new service or assess an existing one, a Business Model Canvas (or specifically a Service Model Canvas) is a simple way to facilitate discussion about the value the service provides to customers, and what resources are needed to make it happen. Drafting a canvas is a good form of Stakeholder Engagement and generates information for a Service Design and Transition Package later. Before defining a specific service, the group may need to look at the larger context — what factors are driving change for us, and what outcomes do we want to achieve? The Strategy on a Page method provides a simple way to facilitate this type of discussion. For more about planning IT services, see: IT Service Management Portal (UW-IT) Need help getting started? Request a consultation from the EA team. Plan a Project 🏗 Before initiating a project, your stakeholders may need to look at the larger context — what factors are driving change for us, and what outcomes do we want to achieve? The Strategy on a Page method provides a simple way to facilitate this type of discussion. As you propose or start a project, additional context is often helpful for identifying the right scope. Business Process Mapping is a common way to build shared understanding of how value is delivered today and what challenges a project needs to address. Capability Mapping identifies what the organization needs to be able to do to succeed, which can identify gaps to be addressed by a project. If the project is about a service, the service should be defined. A Business Model Canvas (or specifically a Service Model Canvas) is a simple way to facilitate discussion about the value the service provides to customers, and what resources are needed to make it happen. Long-term changes can encompass more than one project. Roadmaps provide a way to define and communicate a series of phases that may result in multiple projects, or a vision for future features for a given solution. For more on proposing and planning projects, see: UW-IT Program Management Office Need help getting started? Request a consultation from the EA team. Design a Solution 🧩 Today a solution usually is not just a system, consists of multiple facets including technology, business processes, information, and people. To identify the best solution, several approaches build understanding of these facets: Systems Diagrams help you understand the context of existing systems. Business Process Mapping is a common way to build shared understanding of how value is delivered today and what challenges a solution needs to address. Capability Mapping identifies what the organization needs to be able to do to succeed, which clarifies the gaps to be addressed by a solution. Conceptual Data Modeling defines the high level data entities and relationships the solution will need to work with. User Experience Mapping provides deeper understanding of user needs to help you ensure people will want to adopt the proposed solution. The solution will likely also become part of a service to deliver value long-term. A Business Model Canvas (or specifically a Service Model Canvas) is a simple way to facilitate discussion about the value the service provides to customers, and what resources are needed to make it happen. Before committing to a solution, your stakeholders may need to look at the larger context — what factors are driving change for us, and what outcomes do we want to achieve? The Strategy on a Page method provides a simple way to facilitate this type of discussion. Need help getting started? Request a consultation from the EA team. Last reviewed September 24, 2019 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Enterprise Architecture Engaging with Enterprise Architecture Communities of Practice Events Enterprise Architecture (EA) at UW Change Lifecycle EA Charge and Architectural Value Getting Started with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture Resources Methods Reference Architectures My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA