Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Working Remotely Home Work Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Understand Data Administrative systems Keynes UW Connect Enterprise Document Management (EDM) eSignatures Rome Billing Management Training for Administrative Systems Appropriate use Public Records Act Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Usage Policies and Guidelines for Cloud Services Use of Public Resources for Campaigning UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture Engaging with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture (EA) at UW Getting Started with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture Resources IT Inclusive Language Guide IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning, Assessment and Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management IT Standards Prepare for business disruptions Printing Resources for technical staff Microsoft Technology Community Return to campus technology guide User Experience (UX) Design Resources UW-IT Billing UW-IT Design Guide Cable, Pathway, Wi-Fi Materials & Services Contract UW-IT Service Catalog UWFT Technical (FTT) Workday Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Working Remotely This guide points to useful resources for telecommuting and working remotely that are available to UW students, faculty and staff. We also recommend that you contact your local IT support organization for guidance on best practices and resources for working remotely. Most ways to work remotely need to be set up from campus before they can be used, so read through this guide and prepare in advance any tools you require. Meet virtually with video, voice, and chat Connect to the UW Network with a VPN Collaborate with others using online productivity platforms Access UW administrative systems Remotely access, store and back up files Phone, voicemail, and telecommunications Get software Practice safe computing Meet virtually with video, voice, and chat A variety of web-based video conferencing and online chat platforms are available. Options include: Videoconferencing UW Zoom makes it easy to share screens and host real-time video conversations. A phone conference line is included with your Zoom meetings. UW Zoom is aligned with Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), a federal law that protects the privacy of student educational records and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), a federal law that protects the privacy of medical information. Microsoft Teams is part of UW Office 365 and is a FERPA- and HIPAA-compatible productivity, collaboration, communication, and file storage platform, including persistent direct messaging and group chat functionality, as well as video and voice calling. Conference calling For basic conference calling, use a remote-configured office phone, which allows you to talk with up to five colleagues at once. Online chat Microsoft Teams, a part of UW Office 365, puts the user in a chat-based workspace for real-time collaboration and communication, meetings, file, and app sharing. Team members are either members or owners, and can easily be added and removed. Microsoft Teams is aligned with FERPA and HIPAA. Google Hangouts, a part of UW G Suite, works with up to 25 people at a time. Remember that while you can invite as many people as you want to join a hangout, you can’t have more than 25 people in a hangout at once. Hangouts is is aligned with FERPA but not HIPAA. Connect to the UW network with a VPN To access resources on the UW network, telecommuters should use an approved, secure virtual private network (VPN). A VPN is an application on your computing device that establishes a secure connection to a network. VPN options include: Husky OnNet: free to current students, faculty and staff. Husky OnNet clients are available for download from UWare for MacOS, Windows and Linux. Husky OnNet may also be accessed from mobile devices, including iOS, Android and Chrome, by downloading the F5 Access client from the appropriate app store. Departmental VPN: Your department may also provide an approved VPN, so check with your department’s IT staff. UW Medicine VPN: UW Medicine employees have access to the UW Medicine IT Services SSL VPN. A VPN is not needed for web-based UW resources and services, such as Workday, uw.edu web pages, Canvas, and UW G Suite and UW Office 365. Prepare in advance: A VPN allows you to access items as if you were on campus, but you’ll need: Husky OnNet or another departmental-recommended VPN software that you use Location and how to connect to any shared or mapped drives for files or other tools and resources you need for your work or studies IP address of your computer for a remote desktop connection. When working remotely: Start up Husky OnNet or another departmental-recommended VPN software that you use and follow the instructions for using the software to connect to the UW network. Collaborate with others using online productivity platforms Collaboration platforms empower you to work with peers from different locations, and since your work is stored in the cloud you can access it from anywhere with an internet connection. Both UW G Suite and UW Office 365 are web-based and accessible via the internet. They offer online word processing, spreadsheets, presentations, storage and more. Access UW administrative systems You should be able to access many UW administrative systems from your laptop or home computer. Prepare in advance: To access systems and websites that require two-factor authentication (2FA), be sure to enroll the device you’ll use for the UW’s 2FA to verify it’s you when you sign in. Be sure to also set up a 2FA alternative/backup method in case you do not have your primary device. If you have a managed workstation computer available at work, you can use Remote Desktop Access with an approved, secure VPN to connect to your work computer, and then you can access UW administrative systems in the usual way. Please see below for more information on Remote Desktop, including options for those who do not have a managed workstation. Check with your local IT support staff for information about remotely connecting to the specific systems your department uses. When working remotely: Activate a VPN software, if necessary, to remotely access the UW network. Authenticate with the system you need to access, with two-factor authentication if necessary. Install a terminal emulator to access systems that use a command line interface. PuTTY is recommended for Homer, Red, and other Unix systems. Access Keynes Administrative Applications with SecureCRT. Remotely access, store and back up files Store important documents in the cloud, or on a file service that you can access from remote locations. Get an overview of online storage options, compare the different UW file service options, and ask your local IT staff to see if your work files are available via the Internet. Remote Desktop Users of UW-IT’s Managed Workstation Service (MWS) can find out about Remote Desktop at Connecting Remotely. If you do not have MWS, contact your local IT support organization for guidance and support regarding Remote Desktop. Remote desktop access allows you to access your work computer through another computer with a connection to the Internet. Your icons, programs and printers are all available. You can even transfer files between UW systems. Be sure to review and practice safe computing. See the Practice safe computing section below. Delete any files you downloaded that contain Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) or otherwise sensitive data. Computers must be turned on and not asleep in order to connect to them with a Remote Desktop connection. If you are unable to connect to your work computer remotely, it’s possible that your computer is no longer turned on or is asleep. Many computers have default power settings that will turn them off or put them to sleep after a certain amount of time has passed. If you need help accessing your work computer or for your work computer to be turned back on, please contact your local IT department. If your work computer is managed by UW-IT’s Managed Workstation service, send an email to help@uw.edu. In order to use remote desktop access: Your work computer will need to remain turned on (you can be logged out, but the computer must not be turned off). You will need to know your work computer’s current IP address or name. If you need help finding your IP address, contact your local IT support staff. You need to download and use an approved VPN like Husky OnNet. Mapping a Drive You may map a drive on your home computer to access your work files on a shared file service. U Drive is a centrally-managed file storage where you can store up to 50 GB of data, all automatically backed up and accessible off campus with a VPN. In order to map a drive: You need to download and use an approved VPN such as Husky OnNet. You need to know how to access the individual or shared drive. How to connect varies by shared file service; If you need help finding the shared drive, contact your local IT support staff. Web-based storage Both UW Google Drive and UW OneDrive for Business are web-based storage and collaborative applications for file backup and sharing. When working remotely: You must store any files you want to access remotely in the online storage option you chose — any files not stored in an online storage system cannot be accessed remotely. You must know the URL from which to access web-based storage Phone, voicemail, and telecommunications Telecommuters can access voicemail from home and use the free Extension Connect feature to extend UW telephone service to a cellular or home telephone number. Forward your calls to your cell or home number using Call Forwarding or Remote Access Call Forwarding. Contact the UW Information Technology Service Center for the following: Extending your calls simultaneously to both your campus and home or cellular phones using Extension to Cellular. Downloading the Avaya Workplace (Softphone) software to your laptop or home computer so you can answer and process your office calls on a computer connected to Wi-Fi. Purchasing a UW Telecommuter VoIP handset and installing it at your home or other remote location. This allows you to use your campus telephone wherever you are. You will have access to your campus phone number, voicemail, 5-digit dialing, and all other features you have on your campus phone. You can send both faxes and text messages from your web browser using UW-IT’s Centralized Fax Service and Text Messaging Service. Prepare in advance: To access your voicemail from remote locations, you’ll need to know your 7-digit mailbox number. You will need to either activate call forwarding from your campus phone before working remotely, or sign up for Remote Access Call Forwarding to activate call forwarding from remote locations. To receive phone calls on both your work and home/cellular telephones, you will need to configure Extension Connect. Get software Many software programs you use at work can also be downloaded to your personal computer for telecommuting. You can download software at reduced or no cost in UWare, thanks to license agreements with software vendors. Certain products and/or versions are only licensed for UW-owned equipment. Please be sure to check the eligibility requirements before installing software or send email to help@uw.edu if you are unsure. Practice safe computing Protect your computer, identity and privacy. Download free antivirus software, and learn how to protect yourself on the web. Staff receive a free license to use Sophos Antivirus Software on University-owned computers and on their personal computers, either on campus or at home. Use safe email practices, and report any abuse, harassment or suspicious email. Be mindful of phishing attempts, and follow the best practices to avoid phishing scams recommended by the Office of the Chief Information Security Officer. Understand appropriate use governing the use of UW computing and networking resources. Don’t accept untrusted certifications if warned by the browser’s security. Delete any file you downloaded that contains FERPA, HIPAA or otherwise sensitive data. For more tips, see the Working Remotely Risk Advisory from the UW Office of the Chief Information Security Officer. Last reviewed March 6, 2020 Tags: remote accessRemote ConnectiontelecommutetelecommutingWork from homeWorking from HomeWorking RemoteWorking Remotely See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Work Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Understand Data Administrative systems Keynes UW Connect Enterprise Document Management (EDM) eSignatures Rome Billing Management Training for Administrative Systems Appropriate use Public Records Act Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Usage Policies and Guidelines for Cloud Services Use of Public Resources for Campaigning UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture Engaging with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture (EA) at UW Getting Started with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture Resources IT Inclusive Language Guide IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning, Assessment and Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management IT Standards Prepare for business disruptions Printing Resources for technical staff Microsoft Technology Community Return to campus technology guide User Experience (UX) Design Resources UW-IT Billing UW-IT Design Guide Cable, Pathway, Wi-Fi Materials & Services Contract UW-IT Service Catalog UWFT Technical (FTT) Workday Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA