Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Manage your identity Set your pronouns in Identity.UW Home Manage your identity Set your pronouns in Identity.UW Pronouns feedback Learn more about pronoun indicators Integrate pronouns from Identity.UW UW announces preferred names in 2016 Preferred name guideline Explore use of digital identity wallets Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Set your pronouns in Identity.UW Current status (June 30, 2021) — Pronouns aren’t yet available in Identity.UW. This page is being made available prior to release, so that implementers and other contributors can refer to it, and the community is aware of the general approach to governance and integration of pronoun data. Notes (in italics) are added where coordination with data stewards and other stakeholders continues. Feedback is welcome. Identity.UW supports sharing of pronouns that individuals go by on an everyday basis at the UW. What pronouns can I use? You can indicate any pronouns that help others to learn and respectfully use the pronouns you go by on an everyday basis. This self-identification feature ensures all members of the UW community can indicate pronouns aligned with their gender identity and expression. Can I use short pronoun indicators? Yes, you can use pronoun indicators such as “she/her”, “he/him”, “they/them”, “she/they”, “he/they”, “any/all”, etc. Learn more about pronoun indicators Can I indicate more than one pronoun? Yes, the input field allows you to indicate more than one pronoun, using the format of your choice, including pronoun indicators like “she/they” and “he/they”. Any technical constraints on length or characters? Your pronouns can be up to 140 characters in length and include any printable 7-bit ASCII characters, except for pipe (|) and backslash (\) characters. Can non-English pronouns be included? While pronouns indicated in Identity.UW are intended to help others to learn and respectfully use pronouns in everyday English language contexts of use, heritage language and other bilingual speakers can include non-English pronouns too. For example, “she/her/ella” or “they/el” (both with Spanish third person pronouns) or “she/they/siya” (with Tagalog third-person singular gender-fluid pronoun) might be used to invite others of a heritage language or shared cultural background to refer to these speakers in culturally sustaining ways. Can I choose the formatting? Yes, the format of your pronouns is up to you. However, elaborate formatting may hinder the ability of others to learn and respectfully use your pronouns. Learn more about pronoun indicators How do I update my pronouns? Use Identity.UW to set, edit, and clear (remove) your pronouns. Set your pronouns Follow these instructions to set your initial pronouns: StepsActions Sign in to identity.uw.edu. Under Profile information, select “Set pronouns”. Use the buttons and text box to enter your pronouns. Select “Clear all” to start over. Review the terms and conditions. Select “Agree & Save Pronouns” to save your pronouns. Your saved pronouns will be displayed under “Your Pronouns”. Edit your pronouns Follow these instructions to edit your pronouns: StepsActions Sign in to identity.uw.edu. Under Profile information, under Your Pronouns, select “Edit”. Use text box to update your pronouns. Select “Clear all” to start over. Select “Agree & Save Pronouns” to save your updates. Your updated pronouns will be displayed under “Your Pronouns”. Clear your pronouns Follow these instructions to clear (remove) your pronouns: StepsActions Sign in to identity.uw.edu. Under Profile information, under Your Pronouns, select “Edit”. Select “Clear all” to clear the text box. Select “Agree & Save Pronouns” to save your update. Your pronouns will be cleared (removed) from Identity.UW. Do updates take effect immediately? No, updates need time to propagate to the systems and people that use them. Identity.UW stores updates immediately, but downstream system integrations differ in their data latencies, and people also need time to become aware of updates to your pronouns. Where are my pronouns displayed? Your pronouns are integrated into UW systems authorized to display everyday pronouns, similar to everyday names and identifiers (like UW NetID). These integrations enable faculty, advisors, staff, students, and others in the UW community to learn your everyday pronouns. Note: This section is under development for review and feedback. The list of systems below includes services likely to integrate pronouns, but due to the intended everyday nature and widespread use of pronouns from Identity.UW, it isn’t a complete list of all integrations. Zoom Audiences TBD. Zoom users can view pronouns as part of your Zoom profile information. You can choose if you want this information shared as part of your Zoom display name in meetings and webinars. Data latency TBD. Updates propagate to UW Zoom when you sign in with SSO. Notes TBD (e.g. field label, layout, number of characters) Learn more TBD Canvas Audiences TBD. Instructors and students can view pronouns everywhere a username is displayed. Data latency TBD. Updates propagate to Canvas… Notes TBD (e.g. field label, layout, number of characters) Learn more TBD MyUW Class Lists Audiences TBD. Instructors can view pronouns on both the text roster and the photo classlist. Data latency TBD Updates propagate to MyUW… Notes TBD (e.g. field label, layout, number of characters) Learn more TBD Display notes: Audiences: Data latency: Learn more: TBD UW Directory Audiences TBD. Employee information including pronouns is available to anyone. Students information is only available to members of the UW community. Data latency TBD Notes TBD Learn more TBD. UW Directory What other systems plan to integrate pronouns? Some other systems likely to integrate pronouns: System: EARS (Electronic Academic Records System) Audiences: advisors Department: UW-IT Timeline: TBD System: Compass Audiences: advisors Department: OMA&D Timeline: TBD Note: If you are a system owner, learn more about integrating pronouns. How can I suggest where to integrate my pronouns? Please provide feedback through UW-IT or other departments. How is privacy handled? Identity.UW uses an opt-in methodology to pronouns, so that you are aware of the intended, everyday uses of your pronouns in the UW community. This methodology promotes transparency and awareness, and allows you to decide if you want to share pronouns through Identity.UW. Last reviewed June 30, 2021 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Manage your identity Set your pronouns in Identity.UW Pronouns feedback Learn more about pronoun indicators Integrate pronouns from Identity.UW UW announces preferred names in 2016 Preferred name guideline Explore use of digital identity wallets My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA