Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Eduroam Home Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Eduroam FAQ Eduroam Guides Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Temporary UW NetID Support Roles and Responsibilities Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Eduroam As of 1st of February 2022, Connecting to eduroam via your UW NetID and password has been switched off and replaced with certificate-based authentication. If you’re unsure if your device uses a UW NetID/password or a certificate, then we recommend you reconfigure it using our tool. Please visit our Eduroam Onboarding Guide for step-by-step instructions or click onboard.wifi.uw.edu to onboard right away. Why use eduroam? How to access the eduroam network Configuring computers and devices to use eduroam Find where eduroam is available How to connect to eduroam at another institution Visitors connecting to eduroam at the UW Privacy and appropriate use policies Getting help with eduroam Eduroam is a secure, encrypted Wi-Fi network available at the UW, and the preferred Wi-Fi connection method for UW students, faculty and staff. Eduroam (‘education roaming’) a global wireless network access service for research and education that allows users from the UW to securely access the Internet from any eduroam-enabled institution throughout the world, including the UW. In addition, eduroam provides visitors from participating institutions access to the UW’s wireless network and the Internet, without needing guest credentials or additional configuration by the user or the UW. Why use eduroam? Eduroam is the safest method of connection to the UW’s network on a Wi-Fi enabled device. Eduroam is a secure, encrypted Wi-Fi network, which utilizes 802.1X technology to provide unified access across campus, and provides secure user authentication via X.509 certificates and over-the-air encryption via WPA2 Enterprise. Once configured, eduroam gives seamless connectivity at over 30,000 participating locations around the world. How to access the eduroam network If you are current student, faculty or staff at the University of Washington, your UW NetID and password will allow you access to eduroam once your device is configured to access the eduroam network. Configure your device using the SecureW2 JoinNow utility at onboard.wifi.uw.edu. The JoinNow utility supports the most common devices and will help ensure that your device is properly and securely configured. During the onboarding process, your device will be granted a certificate that allows access to eduroam that is valid for 4 years. After the certificate expires you will need to get a new certificate by going through the onboarding process with your device again. The SecureW2 system will email you a reminder to onboard before the certificate expires. Configure your device to access eduroam Note: Depending on your device platform and operating system configuration, you may be prompted to accept a security certificate during the eduroam installation process. We recommend checking that the certificates being installed match our list of valid server certificates. Please refer to the Eduroam FAQ for valid server certificate details. Configuring computers and devices to use eduroam The eduroam on-boarding is handled by SecureW2, a trusted 3rd party vendor. Their JoinNow onboarding tool has been customized for UW and will configure your device for eduroam access. The JoinNow on-boarding web interface detects and provides a configuration download file for Windows, macOS, iOS, Android, Chrome OS, Linux and several other compatible devices. If your device is not correctly detected, click on the “Select your device” box and make the appropriate choice from the list. Advanced users can choose “Unknown” for manual configuration settings. Clicking on the “JoinNow” button in the middle of the page will start a download of the onboarding agent for your device, after that it’s as easy as following the prompts. To get online with eduroam, visit the University of Washington on-boarding site powered by SecureW2 at onboard.wifi.uw.edu. For step-by-step instructions, please visit our Eduroam Onboarding Guides page. Find where eduroam is available Eduroam is available in over 30,000 worldwide locations. For locations in the USA, please visit www.incommon.org/eduroam/eduroam-u-s-locator-map For locations outside of the USA, please visit www.eduroam.org/where How to connect to eduroam at another institution If you configured eduroam on your device before leaving the UW, it should automatically connect to eduroam when visiting a participating institution. If you did not configure your device for eduroam before leaving, please visit onboard.wifi.uw.edu. Visitors connecting to eduroam at the UW If your device was configured before leaving your home institution, it should automatically connect to eduroam with access to the UW network and the internet. If your device was not configured before you left or you have problems connecting to eduroam, please contact your home institution eduroam support staff for assistance. Privacy and appropriate use policies The use of eduroam is governed by: UW Privacy Policy UW Appropriate Use Policy Eduroam Privacy Policy For visitors to the UW, the Appropriate Use policy of your home institution also applies. Please be aware that eduroam policy requires all users of the service to either be over 18 years of age or have consent from a parent or guardian to use non-filtered Internet access. Authentication information and traffic is recorded by the UW and your home organization, in the case of network abuse and for statistical purposes. Getting help with eduroam UW students, faculty and staff: Please refer to our eduroam FAQ for questions or trouble on-boarding. Visitors to the UW: Please contact your home institution for help. If you can’t find the information you are looking for in the eduroam FAQ, please contact UW-IT using the form below. Get help connecting to Eduroam Last reviewed January 4, 2022 Tags: AuthenticationEduroamInternet AccessSecure InternetWiFiWireless Internet See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Eduroam FAQ Eduroam Guides Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Temporary UW NetID Support Roles and Responsibilities Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA