Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Teaching and Learning Technology Spaces Odegaard Learning Commons Home Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Classroom Computers Mary Gates Hall Computer Classrooms MGH 030, 044 Software and Hardware List Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Learning Commons Computer accessories (peripherals) available for checkout at the Information Desk Learning Commons Hardware List Odegaard Learning Commons Software List Remotes for Check Out at the Information Desk Sound Studio & Digital Production Studio Equipment for Checkout Odegaard Library Sound Studio Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Odegaard Learning Commons Note: Many on-campus study spaces are currently closed due to COVID-19. For information about the status of spaces, check with departmental websites or contact the building’s facilities staff. The Odegaard Learning Commons (OLC) is co-located with other services to provide students, staff, and faculty with a rich set of resources that enhance teaching and learning. The OLC, with hundreds of workstations, provides access to learning technologies in the heart of the undergraduate library. The computing Help Desk and library reference service are a single point of service, providing “one-stop shopping.” A variety of technology studios are available throughout the Odegaard Learning Commons. The libraries also offer a limited number of computer accessories for check-out from students who bring their own devices. Location Odegaard Library Hours The Odegaard Learning Commons hours are the same as Odegaard Library. Beginning Autumn 2021, a current valid Husky Card is required for entry to use Odegaard Library spaces, including the Learning Commons – more details on the hours page. Software & Hardware View software list View hardware list View accessories list Help Desk Services Assistance with software available in the Odegaard Learning Commons is available at the Technology Help Desk. Supported applications include Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Office, and Apple Final Cut Pro, among many others. UW Learning Technologies supports the Canvas Learning Management System suite through phone and email. In-person assistance is available in the Learning Technologies’ main office in Odegaard Room 230. For free, guided instruction on specific applications, plan to attend a free Walk-in Workshop. The Computer Vet is a free, help-desk service offered to UW students, faculty, and staff to assist with software problems on personal computers including operating system updates, anti-virus installation and updates, P2P software removal and infected computers blocked from UW network access. Help is available in the Odegaard Learning Commons. Policies By using the Learning Technologies Spaces, clients agree to abide by all policies. Clients are also expected to know the rules governing the appropriate use of the UW campus network. For more information, please see Knowing the Rules. Misuse or failure to abide by all use policies will result in the loss of privileges. For questions about these policies or the Learning Technologies Spaces, send email to help@uw.edu. General Usage Policies The Learning Technologies Spaces are open to all current students, staff, and faculty of the University of Washington with a UW NetID. Clients must abide by the Guidelines for Use of UW Computing and Networking Resources. Academic work takes first priority; recreational use takes lowest priority. Workstations are available on a first-come, first-serve basis, and cannot be reserved. Clients agree to relocate to other workstations when requested by staff. UW Learning Technologies and the University of Washington are not responsible for any lost, damaged, or stolen items. The lost and found is located at the main staff desk of each facility. Lost and found information can be obtained in person. It will not be released over the phone. Staff will attempt to assist in the recovery of data but cannot guarantee its recovery. The client accepts the risk that data can be irrecoverably lost. Hardware Clients may install and use personal hardware on UW equipment, provided the hardware can be installed without disabling security settings on the computers and no damage is done to UW equipment. All connections and configurations must be returned to the previous state after the hardware is removed. Support is not available for personal hardware. Software Licensed software on the computers may not be copied for any purpose. Clients may install and use personal software on Learning Technologies equipment, provided the software can be installed without disabling security settings on the computers and no damage is done to the equipment. Proof of license must accompany any personal software installed on lab machines. Support is not available for personal software. Scanning Stations Graphics and scanning stations are for graphics and scanning applications only. Clients needing these resources have priority. Comments, Concerns or Feedback? Click Here. Last reviewed February 16, 2021 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Classroom Computers Mary Gates Hall Computer Classrooms MGH 030, 044 Software and Hardware List Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Learning Commons Computer accessories (peripherals) available for checkout at the Information Desk Learning Commons Hardware List Odegaard Learning Commons Software List Remotes for Check Out at the Information Desk Sound Studio & Digital Production Studio Equipment for Checkout Odegaard Library Sound Studio My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA