Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect IT Connect News UW-IT Announcements Home IT Connect News Sign up for IT Connect News UW-IT Announcements Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT UW-IT Announcements Major UW-IT announcements sent via email to the UW community are archived here. Protect your UW NetID and W-2 information from phishing attacks January 11, 2022 Learn how to protect yourself from cybercriminals who try to steal an employee’s login credentials so that they can download Wage and Tax Statements (Form W-2). Your vigilance and the UW’s two-factor authentication system can play a pivotal role in protecting employee data. Read the full announcement How can you be safe and secure online? October 19, 2021 During National Cybersecurity Awareness Month, find best practices to be safe and secure online. Read the full email message about this and other ways to protect your data. Read more Action Required: Mandatory Zoom Update August 17, 2021 On August 25, UW-IT will require an update for the Zoom application for UW Zoom users. On or before August 25, the latest version of Zoom (5.7.4 or higher) must be downloaded and installed. Read the full email message to find out more. Read more Expanded use of 2FA on the web: Take action for better data security June 30, 2021 Campus leadership is requiring all University staff to adopt 2FA when signing in with a UW NetID and password on the web. Read the full email message to find out more. Read more Major changes coming to UW Google June 8, 2021 Recent changes to Google's Workspace for Education will have major implications for UW-IT's ability to provide UW Google. Read the full email message about this and other changes. Read more Please take the 2021 UW-IT Customer Experience Survey April 13, 2021 UW-IT works for you, and needs your feedback to improve the services and support we provide to students, faculty, researchers and staff. Please take the confidential UW-IT Customer Experience Survey. Read the full announcement Protect your UW NetID and W-2 information from phishing attacks January 12, 2021 Learn how to protect yourself from cybercriminals who try to steal an employee’s login credentials so that they can download Wage and Tax Statements (Form W-2). They then can use the W-2 information to electronically file a fraudulent federal income tax return in the employee’s name. By changing the bank account number, the cybercriminals receive the refund. Your vigilance and Duo, the UW’s two-factor authentication system, can play a pivotal role in protecting employee data. Read the full announcement Remove disruptive participants and other ways to protect your Zoom meetings December 1, 2020 Zoom has a new security feature to help meeting hosts protect their Zoom meetings. Read the full email message about this and other features. Read more Secure your personal and University data and be safe online October 20, 2020 During National Cybersecurity Awareness Month, find best practices to secure your personal and University data. Read the full email message about this and other ways to protect your data from theft. Read more Recent email, text and phone scams target UW students October 6, 2020 Recent email, text and phone scams are targeting UW students. Read the full email message about this and how to keep your personal information and UW NetID login credentials secure. Read more Changes to Zoom security and storage October 6, 2020 As a follow-up about recent changes to Zoom security, waiting rooms are now enabled by default when you schedule new meetings. Also, UW-IT is implementing changes to Zoom cloud storage. Read the full email message about this and other changes. Read more Reminder: Changes to Zoom security and storage August 26, 2020 Beginning Wednesday, August 26, Zoom will require users to enable either the waiting room or a passcode (formerly "password") for all meetings in order to enhance security. Also, UW-IT is implementing changes to Zoom cloud storage. Read the full email message about this and other changes. Read more Changes to Zoom security and storage August 12, 2020 Beginning Wednesday, August 26, Zoom will require users to enable either the waiting room or a passcode (formerly "password") for all meetings in order to enhance security. Also, UW-IT is implementing changes to Zoom cloud storage. Read the full email message about this and other changes. Read more Reminder: Changes to Zoom cloud storage July 15, 2020 Because Zoom cloud storage is reaching its capacity, Zoom recordings should be downloaded from Zoom cloud storage to a platform of your choice within 90 days of creation. After that, recordings will be deleted. Read the reminder about this and other changes. Read more Changes to UW Zoom cloud storage June 18, 2020 Because Zoom cloud storage is reaching its capacity, Zoom recordings should be downloaded from Zoom cloud storage to a platform of your choice within 90 days of creation. After that, recordings will be deleted. Read the full email message about this and other changes. Read more ACTION REQUIRED: Update Zoom to v5.0 before May 30 May 28, 2020 Starting May 30, Zoom will require anyone joining a Zoom meeting to have Zoom software version 5.0 or higher. If you do not have this version (or higher) installed, you will NOT be able to join or host a Zoom meeting. This requirement applies to all device types and operating systems. Read the full message Making UW Zoom safer for teaching and learning April 2, 2020 Learn what recent changes UW-IT has made to Zoom to help create and maintain learning environments where students and instructors feel safe, including disabling three default Zoom features that have been the access points for violation of classroom settings: Annotation, Whiteboard, and Chat. Read more Zoom privacy concerns & recent changes to UW Zoom screen sharing, meeting notifications March 31, 2020 Learn about recent concerns about privacy in Zoom and how to use Zoom with confidence, including how to make changes to UW Zoom's default screen sharing and Canvas meeting notifications. Also learn about why Zoom removed the "Login with Facebook” feature. Read more Zoom security updates & other features March 26, 2020 Learn how to secure your Zoom online meeting spaces, and about several other new features available in Zoom. Read more Scams target offsite workers and COVID-19 fears March 17, 2020 Read how to protect yourself from an increase in email, text and phone scams aimed at the UW community as we adapt to new tech tools and working practices in order to inhibit the spread of COVID-19. Read more Beware of phishing emails asking for W-2 information January 15, 2020 Learn how to protect yourself from cybercriminals who try to steal an employee’s login credentials so that they can download Wage and Tax Statements (Form W-2). They then can use the W-2 information to electronically file a fraudulent federal income tax return in the employee’s name. By changing the bank account number, the cybercriminals receive the refund. Fortunately, your vigilance and Duo, the UW’s two-factor authentication system, can play a pivotal role in protecting employee data. Read the full announcement Secure your personal and University data and be safe online October 15, 2019 Learn best practices for safeguarding your personal and University data, including tips on how to recognize phishing emails and email scams and where to report them. Read the full announcement Last reviewed April 5, 2018 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home IT Connect News Sign up for IT Connect News UW-IT Announcements My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA