Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work IT Inclusive Language Guide Home Work Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Understand Data Administrative systems Keynes UW Connect Enterprise Document Management (EDM) eSignatures Rome Billing Management Training for Administrative Systems Appropriate use Public Records Act Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Usage Policies and Guidelines for Cloud Services Use of Public Resources for Campaigning UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture Engaging with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture (EA) at UW Getting Started with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture Resources IT Inclusive Language Guide IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning, Assessment and Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management IT Standards Prepare for business disruptions Printing Resources for technical staff Microsoft Technology Community Return to campus technology guide User Experience (UX) Design Resources UW-IT Billing UW-IT Design Guide Cable, Pathway, Wi-Fi Materials & Services Contract UW-IT Service Catalog UWFT Technical (FTT) Workday Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT IT Inclusive Language Guide A reference for software and other information technology content Introduction Plain, non-colloquial language List of problematic words References Introduction Words matter. Words that reflect racial or other discriminatory bias are contrary to the values of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) in UW Information Technology (UW-IT) and at the University of Washington (UW). They undermine the inclusive environment we aim to create in UW-IT and in serving a diverse University community. UW-IT has joined IT organizations at universities around the country that are involved in activities to replace racist, sexist, ageist, ableist, homophobic or otherwise non-inclusive language scattered throughout materials and resources in the software and information technology fields. The resources provided in this document are mostly focused on language surrounding technology tools, resources and services, or language that is more likely to be used on web properties or documentation platforms. How we arrived at this guide This guide was created with the input of dozens of people, from leadership to service owners and service managers in UW-IT, and was guided by an advisory committee made up of people representing units across the UW and from UW Medicine and UW-IT’s DEI Community of Practice. As a major educational institution, it’s imperative that we remain committed to diversity, equity and inclusion, and one place to start is how we communicate to those who visit our websites. This guide shows our commitment to ensuring our organization, and our websites, continually show respect for everyone. How this guide can be used The majority of words listed in this document are those commonly found in IT. The guide was created as a reference to audit the language used in websites, web pages, wikis, online documentation, software and system applications, and documentation about these applications. This guide is intended to complement other high-quality references for inclusive language, such as UW Marketing & Communications’ Communicating with an Equity Lens resources. The list of problematic words and appropriate replacements below is a valuable addition to the resources already available. Roles and responsibilities Web content creators and editors As creators and editors of website content, we have a responsibility to carefully consider the language we use in our documentation and its impact on the diverse community we serve at the University and beyond. Therefore, we are accountable for ensuring racist, sexist, ageist, ableist, homophobic, or otherwise non-inclusive language are not within the materials and resources online. This resource is especially for those who manage and update content related to software and information technology. UW-IT Service Offering Owner As part of our service management practice, UW Information Technology clearly defines roles and responsibilities related to each of our service offerings. Toward integrating diversity, equity and inclusion best practices with this service management practice, the role of the service offering owner is best suited to implementing and training service team staff in the use of this UW-IT inclusive language guide in materials for end users and front-line support teams, including request submission forms and workflow, support knowledge articles, documentation and self-help aids. Vendor liaison If the name for something or a word in documentation is among those in the problematic words and phrases list and comes from a vendor, and changing the word may create more confusion, it is recommended that you contact the vendor and urge the vendor change the word(s). Below are two sample emails that other university IT shops have used for reference: Sample Email 1 We are reaching out to you because the University of Washington has been working toward fostering an inclusive and welcoming culture in our campus community and wish to work with suppliers who share this desire. As such, we have been working to eliminate some of the IT terminology used for years that has racist, ableist and/or sexist origins and their continued use perpetuates privilege. Attached is a list of words [insert link to this guide] we have identified as non-inclusive within our own IT organizations. Some of our other vendors including Cisco, IBM, Microsoft, and GitHub are addressing this issue and I am curious if [fill in name of vendor] has plans to do so as well; I noticed you still use terms such as [provide example]. Does [fill in name of vendor] have plans to address this? We would love to know what efforts you are undertaking to move away from this language to create a more inclusive product/service. I am asking from an inclusive partner and curiosity perspective, and would offer any help I can to have you make such changes in your language. I greatly appreciate your time and consideration. Sample Email 2 Dear [insert vendor name], The University of Washington works to foster an inclusive and welcoming culture for everyone in our campus community, and we wish to work with suppliers who share this desire. Unfortunately, in working with your product/service we have identified language that can be considered offensive due to its racist, ableist and/or sexist origins. Specifically, the use of [fill in]. Can you let us know what efforts you are undertaking to move away from this language so as to create a more inclusive product/service? Updating this guide This inclusive language guide with its list of problematic words and phrases is by no means exhaustive, and not all problematic words or phrases have been captured here. If you have comments, suggestions, or think something is missing from this guide, please email help@uw.edu with “Inclusive language guide” in the subject line to start a conversation with the UW-IT Communications team. Plain, non-colloquial language Using clear, concise and direct language (known as plain language) is a good way to avoid problematic words. Plain language is communication your audience can understand the first time they read or hear it. Plain language: Uses active voice, not passive voice Uses short sentences and paragraphs Is composed of common, everyday words Is organized using easy-to-follow design features like headers, lists and tables Avoids jargon and colloquial language Colloquial language in particular can be a source of many problematic words and phrases, and many of the terms we included in the list below are colloquial. Colloquial language refers to words or expressions used in ordinary language by common people. Colloquialism is casual conversation where some slang terms are used and where no attempt is made at being formal. This can include idioms, or phrases that have a cultural meaning, but that meaning is derived from a cultural familiarity and not the meaning of the words themselves. Examples include “raining cats and dogs” or “sanity check” or “lowering the bar.” While most people reading this guide know exactly what these phrases mean, the meaning is derived from a cultural context and not the words themselves. Two of those phrases are problematic, and included in the list of problematic words below. You can learn more about plain language from plainlanguage.gov. List of problematic words and phrases by category The problematic words and phrases are grouped into four categories and in table format. The categories are: Race, Ethnicity, Nationality, Religion, Native/Indigenous Identity Disability and Ableism Ageism Gender and sexual orientation The following table is organized into three columns. The first column lists the problem word or words and phrases, the second column gives suggested alternatives, and the third column provides an explanation of why the words are problematic. Race, Ethnicity, Nationality, Religion, Native/Indigenous Identity Problem words Suggested Alternative(s) Context blackout days/dates black/gray days blocked days restricted days make no changes period Definition: “Blackout dates” in the technological world are dates where something is inaccessible or denied, such as when operations are shut down for maintenance, when employees or executives are not allowed to trade in the company’s share or when travel rewards and other special discounts or promotions are not available. Why it’s problematic: Use of the words “black” for something undesirable, wrong or bad, and light or “white” for desirable, right or good perpetuates concepts that have been used to oppress people of color. black list (blacklist, black-list) deny/denied list Definition: In computing, a “blacklist” or “whitelist” is a basic access control mechanism; a “whitelist” allows everyone access, and a “blacklist” denies its members access. Why it’s problematic: Use of the words “black” for something undesirable, wrong or bad, and light or “white” for desirable, right or good perpetuates concepts that have been used to oppress people of color. Using plain language (i.e.,”deny list” or “allow list”) makes the meaning more clear. white list (whitelist, white-list) allow list blackbox blackbox: closed box closed system opaque glassbox frosted glass box mystery box unknown origin obfuscated Definition: A “blackbox” is a reference to a physical machine (machine learning algorithms) or testing. In testing, “white box” indicates the presence of knowns and a clear view, and “black box” indicates unknowns or lack of visibility. Why it’s problematic: Because these words are derivatives of racist tropes — “black” for something undesirable, wrong or bad, and light or “white” for desirable, right or good — they perpetuate concepts that have been used to oppress people of color. whitebox whitebox: known open box open system glass box clear box clear box testing blackbox/whitebox blackbox/whitebox: clear/opaque viewed/hidden visible/invisible clarify Blackhat Black Hat Hacker/ blackhat hacker unethical malicious malevolent malignant bad criminal unethical hacker Definition: A “blackhat,” “Black Hat” or “blackhat” hacker are criminal hackers that concentrate on malicious breaking of cyber defenses for money or fame. A “whitehat,” “White Hat” or “whitehat” hacker are ethical hackers who focus on testing cyber defenses as part of an organized corporate development process, cybersecurity plan or strategy. A “Gray Hat Hacker” is a hacker who exploits a weakness in cyber defense and brings the weakness to the attention of the owner, with the goal of improving security. They don’t have permission to hack into a system; they bring attention to the system owner, so they are straddling between right and wrong. They think they’re doing good, but they’re still doing something illegal. Why it’s problematic: Because these words are derivatives of racist tropes — “black” for something undesirable, wrong or bad, and light or “white” for desirable, right or good — they perpetuate concepts that have been used to oppress people of color. Whitehat White Hat Hacker/ whitehat hacker security researcher ethical benevolent benign good ethical hacker Gray Hat Hacker Hacktivist grandfather clause/ grandfather policy/ grandfather right grandfathered (in) grandfathering Legacy legacy status exempt Definition: A “grandfather” clause, “grandfather” policy or “grandfathering” in IT s a provision in which an old rule continues to apply to some existing situations while a new rule will apply to all future cases. Those exempt from the new rule are said to have grandfather rights, acquired rights, or to have been grandfathered in. Why it’s problematic: “Grandfathering” or “grandfather clause” was used as a way to exempt some people from a change because of conditions that existed before the change (e.g., we’ve grandfathered some users on an unlimited data plan.”) “Grandfather clause” originated in the American South in the 1890s as a way to defy the 15th Amendment and prevent black Americans from voting. master source main active primary parent (note: the parent/child binary may be helpful in certain contexts, and so consider the association and connotation when used, as it may not be helpful) head in charge principal active leader local Definition: The master-slave relationship in technology usually refers to a system where one — the master — controls or is at the top or head of other copies, processes or systems. Why it’s problematic: The master/slave metaphor in technology dates back to at least 1904, describing a sidereal clock system at an observatory in Cape Town, according to a 2007 essay by Ron Eglash, a professor at the University of Michigan. He argued that the words may have been chosen to emphasize the concept of a “free master that did no work and a slave that followed the master’s orders made for a vivid, if ethically suspect, technosocial metaphor.” Note: Consider the context in which “master” is used, and whether that use is derived from the racist binary “master/slave:” where the “master” controls an inferior process or system. For example, a Master’s degree or the common use of master in degrees, such as Master of Science, Master of Arts, etc., suggests a mastery of a subject, and thus is not deemed derogatory. Example of proper usage: “She is a master at the game of chess.” However, if “master” is in reference to a person who is in charge of a group and evokes the offensive “master-slave” dynamic, then “master” should be replaced. For example, a Kanban flow master facilitates Kanban meetings, continuous improvement initiatives and process reviews. Kanban project management has been evolving in recent years to de-emphasize the master role, and the focus is now on Service Delivery Manager and Service Request Manager. slave replica secondary child worker follower passive branch standby remote primary record, file or recording of data/ secondary record, file or recording of data. master/slave (relationship) hierarchical parent-child primary-replica primary-secondary active-passive active-standby leader-follower conductor-musician origin-clone lead-support local-remote (Kanban) flow master (Kanban) flow manager Scrum master Agile Lead Agile Program Manager Agile Coach Agile Team Facilitator Scrum Coach Scrum Teacher Scrum Leader Scrum Facilitator Servant Leader Scrum Custodian Scrum Guardian Scrum Guide Process Expert Process Lead master branch trunk main branch webmaster/ Web master Web product owner Web manager Website manager Product Manager tribal knowledge institutional knowledge organizational knowledge Definition: The word “tribe” is sometimes used to mean a well-connected or organized group of people. “Tribal knowledge” refers to the collective information of people who work together for an organization such as employees in a unit. But using forms of tribe in this way are offensive to many American Indian and Alaska Native and world indigenous peoples.Why it’s problematic: In a Western context, the word “tribal” often implies savage and further perpetuates stereotypes of primitiveness, lack of culture and uneducated. Calling people “tribal” is equivalent to a racial stereotype.Institutional knowledge is more accurate when referring to a long-time employee’s understanding of processes and operations. Reserve the use of “Tribal” at the UW to apply specifically to the UW’s acknowledgement of the “Coast Salish peoples of this land, the land which touches the shared waters of all tribes and bands within the Suquamish, Tulalip and Muckleshoot nations.” Potentially offensive/non-inclusive example: “Much of what we know about these processes comes from tribal knowledge.” Correction: “Much of what we know about these processes comes from institutional knowledge.” brown bags lunch and learn tech talks Definition: A brown bag lunch, sometimes referred to as a brown bag meeting, is an informal training session usually held during lunch, and implies that employees should bring their own lunches from home to participate. Why it’s problematic: Brown bags trace back to the “brown paper bag test,” which was traditionally used to judge skin color by certain African-American sororities and fraternities. References to a “brown bag” when we are really referencing a get-together over lunch surfaces an ugly period of American history that can alienate and offend people. It would be more clear to say: bring your own lunch. cakewalk (and the shortened “takes the cake”) easy Definition: A “cakewalk” is an easy victory or task. “Takes the cake” means to win the prize or to rank first. Why it’s problematic: The cakewalk was a pre-Civil War dance performed by enslaved people, and the winner of which would be given a cake. This is the original source for the phrases “takes the cake” and “cakewalk.” Because of this history, this word and phrase should be avoided. first-class citizen first-class function first-class control first-class data type type object entity value Definition: In programming language design, a “first-class citizen” in a given programming language is an entity which supports all the operations generally available to other entities. These operations typically include being passed as an argument, returned from a function, modified and assigned to a variable Why it’s problematic: “First-class citizen” implies that this particular value is the best quality or in the highest grade, and thus others under this group are second-class or lower class. Using cultural hierarchies in people-people relationships to denote relationships between things is a form of classism, which is prejudice against or in favor of people belonging to a particular social class. gyp / gip steal scam defraud cheat Definition: The word “gypsy” originated as a term used to refer to the Romani (or Roma), a nomadic ethnic group who were characterized as thieves and swindlers. Hence, the term “gyp / gip” is used to refer to the act of stealing. Why it’s problematic: All versions of this term should be avoided as they are derogatory to the Romani people. lower the bar simplify inclusive make more accessible Definition: This phrase is based on the erroneous idea that a company has to relax hiring standards in order to add people from different racial, ethnic, gender backgrounds. Why it’s problematic: In fact, in many cases it’s the opposite; companies that have poorly designed hiring practices fail to adequately evaluate highly qualified, and often diverse, candidates. mantra North Star elevator pitch mission statement motto Definition: While “mantra” is a word or sound repeated to aid in concentration or meditation, the word is often used to imply someone’s basic belief or belief that they live and work by. Why it’s problematic: Many people in the Buddhist and Hindu community hold this term “mantra” as highly spiritual and religious experience, and is not to be used with nonchalance. Minority (if used to comment on a specific group of people and how the group would like to be referred to isn’t considered) Native American African American people of color traditionally underserved community historically excluded Definition: “Minority” literally means the smaller number or part, or a number that is less than half the whole number. Often “minority” refers to groups of people that are racially or ethnically different from the racial or ethnic “majority.” Why it’s problematic: When “minority” is used to refer to other races or abilities, used as a generalized term for “the other” and implies a “less than” attitude toward the community or communities being discussed. For example, the minority neighborhood (when talking about redlined areas of a town); the minority agenda, when people insinuate that the agenda is negative. The nuance and context of how the word is used is important to consider. Avoid referring to an individual as a “minority” unless in a quotation. Use either community-specific terms (e.g., “Native American,” “African American,” etc.) or the general term “people of color” when referring to racial or ethnic communities. When referring to other marginalized communities, clarify which specific community or communities are being discussed. Potentially offensive/non-inclusive examples: “El Pueblo de Los Ángeles State Historic Park, in the oldest section of Los Angeles, is the location of some of the most significant cultural landmarks of L.A.’s minority.” “That city has several minority neighborhoods.” Corrections: “El Pueblo de Los Ángeles State Historic Park, in the oldest section of Los Angeles, is the location of some of the most significant cultural landmarks of L.A.’s diverse Latino population.” “That city has several neighborhoods historically affected by red-lining practices.” mob programming whole team swarming herd programming troop collaborative programming Definition: Mob programming (informally mobbing) is a software development approach where the whole team works on the same thing, at the same time, in the same space, and on the same computer. Why it’s problematic: The intention was for a general, non-hierarchical group of people to self-organize and by accomplishing tasks “be dangerous.” However, historically, the use of “mob” has a racial component and has been used derogatorily and in a negative way. native speaker non-native speaker (If used to imply a speaker of English who lives in the U.S. or a person who learned English and lives in the U.S., then these words are problematic) English as a primary language English as first language English language learners English as a secondary language (ESL) Definition: A person who has or hasn’t spoken the language in question from early childhood. Why it’s problematic: Over time, as officials have recognized that some of these labels can perpetuate negative or inaccurate narratives, the terminology regarding those whose first language isn’t English has changed and evolved. English is not the native language of the land occupied by the United States of America. Other terms better describe people learning English as a secondary language from their primary language. The U.S. Department of Education talks about English language learners (ELL) or just English learners (EL). The Center for Promise, the research institute at America’s Promise, uses students whose first language is not English (FLNE). ninja guru expert Agile expert charismatic person talented person specialist Definition: A person who excels in a particular skill or activity. Why it’s problematic: These words are culturally appropriative and thus are problematic. In tech job descriptions, these words can be perceived as more masculine and therefore discourage some groups from applying. These words also don’t identify exactly what qualities and qualifications are being sought. no can do I can’t do it Not possible or not feasible (within a time frame, or within the parameters) Definition: “No can do” is a colloquial or slang phrase that means “I cannot do it.” Why it’s problematic: What might seem like a folksy, abbreviated version of “I can’t do it” is actually an imitation of Chinese Pidgin English. The phrase dates from the mid-nineteenth to early-twentieth centuries, an era when Western attitudes towards the Chinese were markedly racist. off the reservation out of bounds out of the norm Definition: To deviate from what’s expected or customary; to behave unexpectedly or independently. Why it’s problematic: Native American peoples were restricted to reservations created by the U.S. government, and their freedom was severely limited by the terms of the treaties they were often forced to sign. The term can feel like a slight because it doesn’t acknowledge the origins of the phrase that was used historically in contempt of Native Americans. open the kimono full disclosure provide insight into Definition: “Open the kimono” means to reveal what is being planned or to share important information freely. Why it’s problematic: A kimono is associated with formal attire in Japanese culture. Over time, this 1970s-era slang has been misinterpreted from myths that certain Japanese warriors would open their robes to show someone that they were not hiding their weapons. Kimonos were also worn by geishas — highly trained hostesses who throughout history have been inaccurately depicted as concubines in various films and books. Both amplify a stereotypical view of Japanese culture. peanut gallery upper balcony/gallery other tier the cheap seats observers Definition: The upper levels of a balcony, gallery, theater and often the least expensive. Why it’s problematic: Peanut gallery originally referred to the balconies of segregated theaters, where African Americans had to sit. Peanuts were introduced to America during the slave trade, and thus became associated with Black people. pow wow huddle standup discussion meeting meetup Definition: A North American Indian ceremony involving feasting, singing and dancing. Why it’s problematic: Using the word “pow wow” is cultural misappropriation, and ultimately racist. redline scrap shelve mothball cancel drop edit marked up (legal comments in a doc) Definition: Collaborative text editing or to designate what’s included and what’s not included. Why it’s problematic: Because the word is so strongly associated with discriminatory practices and policies, it is best to use an alternative word if collaborative editing is being referenced. jerry-rigged designed poorly designed biased skewed predisposed Definition: “Jerry-rigged” means organized or constructed in a crude or improvised manner. Why it’s problematic: “Jerry” is a derogatory term used by soldiers and civilians of the Allied nations for Germans in WW2. sherpa guide coach leader tutor Definition: A Sherpa is a person with Tibetan heritage who lives in the Nepalese Himalayas. The ethnic group is well-known because there are so many Sherpas that have served as porters on mountain-climbing expeditions. Why it’s problematic: Referring to someone as a “sherpa” is cultural appropriation. spirit animal kindred spirit BFF personal icon role model Definition: Spirit animals are an important part of the belief system of some cultures and refer to a spirit that “helps guide or protect a person on a journey and whose characteristics that person shares or embodies.” Why it’s problematic: Referring to something as your spirit animal is cultural appropriation. totem pole (e.g., low person on the totem pole) hierarchy Definition: A totem pole or monumental pole is a tall structure created by Northwest Coast Indigenous peoples that showcases a nation’s, family’s or individual’s history and displays their rights to certain territories, songs, dances and other aspects of their culture. Why it’s problematic: Using “totem pole” is culturally appropriative. Red Team White Team Yellow Team Red Atomic Team Cyber Offense Cyber Exercise Cell DevSecOps Team Definition: In cybersecurity, colorization of teams is used to differentiate between different roles or personas in a cybersecurity context. For example, the red team is “offensive security,” white team is “coordinators or referees,” the yellow team is the builders of software, etc. Why it’s problematic: Using colors based as racist tropes — labelling “white” as good, “black” as bad, “red” as attackers, or “yellow” as excluded third parties — is offensive. Also, “red atomic” surfaces associations to the Cold War and negative relations with Russia, which was often denoted as “red” and therefore bad because the country was communist. Disability and Ableism Problem words Suggested Alternative(s) Context blind to the truth blind eye to blind spot imperceptive ignorant uneducated insensitive dense unaware choosing to ignore biased against Definition: Several colloquialisms use the word “blind” to describe a lack of awareness. Why it’s problematic: This phrase is ableist, connoting that “blind” is equivalent to ignorant. crazy insane baffling confusing disoriented disorienting amazing incredibly super difficult very complicated wild irrational ridiculous silly absurd strange unnatural outrageous out of this world exciting infatuated passionate enthusiastic impractical senseless Definition: Colloquially, labelling something “crazy” or “insane” is describing something that is chaotic, unorganized, or nonsensical. Why it’s problematic: Historically, “crazy” was commonly used to describe someone suffering from mental illness and not mentally sound. Using a word associated with mental health and attributing it to someone or something is problematic because it perpetuates the stigma associated with mental health issues. “Crazy” is a word with many uses and connotations, but it’s recommended to avoid this word as much as possible. cripple(s) slow(s) down inhibits hinders prevents Definition: A lame or partly disabled state of being that is deprived of the capability for service or of strength, efficiency or wholeness. Why it’s problematic: This is an ableist word that tends to be used with a negative connotation describing the disability. dumb dumb-down clueless uninformed ignorant mute or nonvocal simplify (to replace dumb-down) Definition: The origin of the word, “dumb,” is a person who cannot speak. Why it’s problematic: It’s a negative word often associated negatively with those who cannot speak. dumb terminal terminal computer terminal thin client Definition: An original, and still technically intact, Old English meaning of the word dumb, which means to be mute/unable to speak. The function of a terminal is confined to the display and input of data (no local programmable data processing capability) and depends on the host computer for its processing power. Why it’s problematic: It’s a negative word often associated negatively with those who cannot speak and should not be used in an association with technology. dummy value placeholder value sample value test data/test value pseudo value Definition: A known test or sample values for an identifier or scheme that has no meaningful value. Why it’s problematic: The origin of the word, “dummy,” is a person who cannot speak. Because the use of this word is often negatively associated with a disability, implying a person is worthless, ineffective or incapable, an alternative word should be used. “deaf” to something; fell on deaf ears unwilling to hear or listen ignorant unwilling to learn/understand misunderstanding uneducated dense didn’t listen ignored disregarded Definition: This phrase connotes that being deaf is the same as being unwilling to listen. Why it’s problematic: There is a long history of associating people who are deaf with being unintelligent. It stems from the idea that if someone cannot use their voice and speak then they do not have anything of value to share. lame weak Definition: Originally, the word was used in reference to people with reduced mobility, and now it’s often a synonym for “uncool.” Why it’s problematic: This word is offensive, even when it’s used in slang for uncool because it’s using a disability in a negative way to imply that the opposite, which would be not lame, to be superior. This use is considered ableist. normal, healthy (to denote people without disabilities) nondisabled person sighted person hearing person person without disabilities neurotypical person desired state Definition: These words are often (and problematically) used to describe a person who does not have disabilities. Why it’s problematic: People with disabilities are equally healthy, and calling someone without a disability “normal” is denigrating those with disabilities as “abnormal” and therefore, “normal” is an ableist word. Potentially offensive/ non-inclusive example: “A normal person can use both mouse and keyboard with their computers.” Correction: “People without physical disabilities have the option of using a mouse, keyboard or both with their computers.” sanity check quick check confidence check coherence check gut check Definition: A test run to confirm or validate something that should follow very clear and simple logic. For example, after receiving the software build, sanity testing is performed to ensure that the code changes introduced are working as expected. If the sanity test fails, the build is rejected by the testing team to save time and money. Why it’s problematic: The phrase sanity check is ableist, and unnecessarily references mental health in code bases. It denotes that people with mental illnesses are inferior, wrong, or incorrect. Using an appropriate replacement will also clarify what is intended. see (this web page) read or visit this web page hyperlink to the reference view read Definition: The definition of “see” can mean to look with one’s eyes at something, and so is associated with vision. It can also be used on a website or in a story posted online to mean “refer to,” “visit,” “know” or “understand.” Why it’s problematic: Though these uses of the word “see” aren’t inherently incorrect or necessarily offensive, content providers should avoid using the word “see” in situations in which a more accurate, non-ableist word would be better. Potentially offensive/ non-inclusive example: “See the notes at the end of the article.” Correction: “Refer to the notes at the end of the article.” Ageism Problem words Suggested Alternative(s) Context Gray Beard Use the person’s name experienced person knowledgeable person source person Definition: An older, more experienced IT or cybersecurity person, who may be sought after for their experience and wisdom born from study and experience over a lifetime. Why it’s problematic: Using this phrase can be perceived as derogatory toward someone’s age. Gender and sexual orientation Problem words Suggested Alternative(s) Context he/she as an inclusive combined subject pronoun, also: s/he he or she he and she his and her his or her they/them/ theirs as singular (neutral) Definition: In the past, when referring to others, the binary pronoun (he/she) and possessive pronoun (his/her) was often used. Why it’s problematic: Using the binary pronoun and possessive pronoun is no longer considered accurate due to greater understanding and acceptance that gender and sexual orientation are not binary or limited to male and female or he/she and his/her. Potentially offensive/ non-inclusive example: Applicants for the position should submit his/her resume and cover letter.” Correction: “Applicants for the position should submit their resume and cover letter.” freshman, freshmen first-year student Definition: Term applies to people in the first year of a traditional four-year undergraduate degree program. Why it’s problematic: Use of “man” and “men” in “freshman/freshmen” is not inclusive, and thus sexist. housekeeping maintenance cleanup overview Definition: Housekeeping refers to the management of business duties and tasks. Why it’s problematic: In reference to office work, this language can feel gendered. It carries a fraught history and connotation of women’s traditional domestic role as housekeepers. male or female connectors and fasteners connector and receptacle plug and socket pin and receptacle Definition: A “male” connector is commonly referred to as a plug and has a solid pin for a center conductor. A “female” connector is commonly referred to as a jack and has a center conductor with a hole in it to accept the “male” pin. Why it’s problematic: Use of male or female anatomy to describe electrical and IT connectors and fasteners and sexualize how they fit together is inherently problematic. Applicability of the issue includes for USB and A/V jacks. man (verb: e.g., “I’ll be manning the front desk”) staffing working Definition: To staff or furnish with a person or people, such as in customer service. Why it’s problematic: Use of “man” is not inclusive, and thus sexist. man-in-the-middle person-in-the-middle machine-in-the-middle monster-in-the-middle Definition: In cryptography and computer security, a man-in-the-middle attack is a cyberattack where the attacker secretly relays and possibly alters the communications between two parties who believe that they are directly communicating with each other. Why it’s problematic: Use of “man” is not inclusive, and thus sexist. man hours person hours engineer hours, hours of effort, work hours, labor hours Definition: Hours of a worker’s time. Why it’s problematic: Use of “man” is not inclusive, and thus sexist. Gender is unnecessary when describing time worked. manpower workforce human effort Definition: People capable of doing the work necessary to complete a task. Why it’s problematic: The word “manpower” is gendered in a way that implies that men are required for a task, when gender is irrelevant to a task’s completion. Mom/girlfriend test user test test with novice users Definition: Putting a product in front of people who are unfamiliar with it to learn more how they would use the product.Why it’s problematic:The assumption — if a mom or girlfriend can use a program, anyone can — is both sexist and ageist. preferred pronouns pronouns personal pronouns Definition: Pronouns that individuals use to substitute for themselves in the third-person and how they prefer to be referred to. Examples include: he/his/him, she/her/hers, they/their/theirs, ze/hir/hirs and ze/zir/zirs. Why it’s problematic: “Preferred” implies that a person’s pronoun is optional, and it suggests that gender identity and expression is a preference and that respectful pronoun use is therefore optional. Gender identity and expression is more complex than that, and respectful use is neither preferred nor optional; it is expected and warranted. upperclassman, upperclassmen junior or senior student(s) returning student(s) Definition: A student who is a junior or senior in secondary school or college. Why it’s problematic: Using “men” or “man” is not inclusive and considered sexist. guys folks people you all y’all friends Definition: Used to refer to people in a group or audience, regardless of their sex. Why it’s problematic: Avoid gendered pronouns that favor one gender over the other and aim for those that are inclusive. ladies/gals women folks people you all y’all friends Definition: Used to refer to women in a group or audience. Why it’s problematic: Terms like “ladies,” “gals” or others can feel patronizing to some. mankind humankind Definition: The human race; humankind. Why it’s problematic: Using “man”kind to represent all of humankind is sexist. sexual preference lifestyle sexual orientation Definition: Romantic or sexual attraction (or a combination) to persons of the opposite sex or gender, the same sex or gender, to both sexes or more than one gender. Why it’s problematic: The terms “sexual preference” and “lifestyle” are considered offensive because they imply that a person’s sexuality is a choice. Gay, as a generic term LGBTQIA+ Definition: Gay is a term used to refer to homosexuality, a homosexual person, or a homosexual male. Why it’s problematic: The term “gay” has fallen out of favor, and the preferred term is now LGBTQIA+ which stands for: L – Lesbian. Lesbian is a term used to refer to homosexual females. G – Gay. Gay is a term used to refer to homosexuality, a homosexual person, or a homosexual male. B – Bisexual. Bisexual is when a person is attracted to two sexes/genders. T – Trans. Trans is an umbrella term for transgender and transsexual people. Q – Queer/Questioning. Queer is an umbrella term for all of those who are not heterosexual and/or cisgender. Questioning is when a person isn’t 100% sure of their sexual orientation and/or gender, and are trying to find their true identity. I – Intersex. Intersex is when a person has an indeterminate mix of primary and secondary sex characteristics. A – Asexuality. Asexuality is when a person experiences no (or little, if referring to demisexuality or grey-asexuality) sexual attraction to people. + – The “+” symbol simply stands for all of the other sexualities, sexes, and genders that aren’t included in these few letters. virgin first run first launch Definition: The word can mean first, but is commonly used to indicate a person who has not had sexual intercourse. Why it’s problematic: Because the strong association to a woman who has not had sex, and the negative and emotionally charged stereotypes associated with the word, the word should be avoided. References Race, Ethnicity, Nationality, Religion, Native/Indigenous Identity Aarons, Michelle. “Colorful cybersecurity: Know what red, blue, and yellow mean.” Medium, Feb. 11, 2020. Agarwal, Shourya. “7 Racist Slurs Which You Should Drop From Your Vocabulary.” Medium, Oct. 20, 2020. Belisle, Michele. “Words matter. remove racist labels used in technology.” NTEN, August 19, 2020. Boiser, Lena. “Kanban Roles for Successful Project Management.” Kanban Zone, April 16, 2019. Brown Paper Bag Test – 2014 – Question of the Month – Jim Crow Museum. Ferris State University, Feb. 2014. Cimpanu, Catalin. “Infosec community disagrees with changing ‘black hat’ term due to racial stereotyping.” ZDNet, July 4, 2020. Emerson, Joelle. “Want to Hire a More Diverse Set of People? Raise Your Bar.” Medium, May 11, 2015. Emmanuel, Adeshina. “Common Words and Phrases That Are Racist.” Attn, Apr. 10, 2016. Emmanuel, Adeshina. “Common Words and Phrases That Have Seriously Racist Roots.” Attn, April 10, 2016. Eubanks, Olivia. “Here are some commonly used terms that actually have racist origins.” ABC News, July 30, 2020. First-class citizen – Wikipedia. Wikipedia, Nov. 13, 2021. Gandhi, Lakshmi. “The extraordinary story of why a ‘cakewalk’ wasn’t always easy.” National Public Radio, December 23, 2013. Harder, Eva and Varga, Shannon M. “ESL, ELL, or FLNE? How to Describe Students Whose First Language Isn’t English.” America’s Promise Alliance, Sept. 27, 2017. Hunter, Tatum. “Terms like ‘slave’ and ‘master’ finally have their reckoning. It’s a start.” Built In, July 26, 2020. Knodel, Mallory. “Terminology, power, and exclusionary language in Internet-Drafts and RFCs.” Datatracker, Oct. 22, 2021 Landau, Elizabeth. “Tech confronts its use of the labels ‘master’ and ‘slave’.” Wired, July 6, 2020. Malesky, Kee. “Should Saying Someone Is ‘Off The Reservation’ Be Off-Limits?” NPR, Code Switch, June 29, 2014. Native Life & Tribal Relations | Diversity at the UW. University of Washington, [date?] “Offensive Words And Phrases To Stop Using.” Dictionary.com. Race-related coverage, AP Stylebook, Associated Press. Copyright 2021. Redlining – Wikipedia Wikipedia, Nov. 18, 2021. Regarding Git and Branch Naming. Software Freedom Conservancy, June 23, 2020. Riggins, Jennifer. “Words Matter: Finally, Tech Looks at Removing Exclusionary Language.” The New Stack, June 19, 2020. Rodriguez, Katitza, et. al. “Protecting Security Researchers’ Rights in the Americas.” Electronic Frontier Foundation, October 16, 2018. Schneider, Christian. “Provost reprimanded for using word ‘mantra,’ cited as biased against Buddhists.” The College Fix, Aug. 6, 2020. Seele, Mike. “Striking out racist terminology in engineering.” The Brink, Boston University, July 16, 2020. Smythe, Will. Guidance for changing the default branch name for GitHub repositories. GitHub, Jan. 15, 2021. “Speaking and writing about diversity.” NC State University Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity, Copyright 2021. Sully, Benny Wayne. “7 Things You Should Never Say to a Native American.” Insider, Jan. 9, 2020. Tikayatray, Lokajit. “Racist and Sexist Terms That Are Commonly Used in Technology World.” Medium, Oct. 29, 2020. Tuck, Eve. “Things you can say instead of spirit animal: role model inspiration board inner avatar secret twin desired doppelgänger personal icon.” Twitter, Jan. 1, 2017. Turner, Bob. “The colors of cybersecurity.” The CISO’s Special Edition blog, UW Madison Information Technology, July 13, 2020. Wallen, Jack. “GitHub to replace master with main starting in October: What developers need to do now.” TechRepublic, September 22, 2020. Weidman Powers, Laura. “What You’re Really Saying When You Talk About Lowering the Bar in Hiring.” beyourself, Feb. 10, 2016. Disability and Ableism Ewing, Rachel. “That’s crazy:” Why you might want to rethink that word in your vocabulary.” Penn Medicine News, Sep. 27, 2018. Hanson, Seán. “Ableist language in code: Sanity check.” GitHub Gist. Ping-Wild, Jessica. “Ableist language to avoid and acceptable alternatives – “Crazy” Edition.” The Rolling Explorer, October 1, 2020. Ping-Wild, Jessica. “Ableist language to avoid and acceptable alternatives – “Blind” Edition.” The Rolling Explorer, October 1, 2020. Torres, Monica. “Instead of these ableist words, use inclusive language at work.” HuffPost, October 15, 2020. “What is ableism.” Stop Ableism. Writing inclusive documentation. “Developer documentation style guide.” Google. Ageism Turner, Bob. “The colors of cybersecurity.” UW Madison Information Technology. Writing inclusive documentation. “Developer documentation style guide.” Google. Gender and sexual orientation “70 inclusive language principles that will make you a more successful recruiter.” Handshake. “California City Drops Words Like ‘Manpower’ in Push to be Inclusive.” VOA | Learning English, July 23, 2019. “Is the term ‘man hours’ appropriate for the workplace, and if not, how do I get my coworkers to use a more neutral term?” The Workplace Stack Exchange, Mar. 1, 2017. “Pronouns.” Developer documentation style guide. Google. Cimpanu, Catalin. “SecurityInfosec community disagrees with changing ‘black hat’ term due to racial stereotyping.” Zero Day. 4 July 2020. Jake. “The Great Ubuntu-Girlfriend Experiment (Content Consumer).” LWN.net. 28 April 2008. Hare, Kristen. “AP style change: Singular they is acceptable ‘in limited cases’.” Poynter, Mar. 24, 2017. “Man-in-the-middle attack.” Wikipedia. Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity, North Carolina State University. “Speaking and writing about diversity.” Sakurai, Shige. MyPronouns.org. Seiter, Courtney. “An incomplete guide to inclusive language for startups and tech.” Buffer. 6 Jun. 2018. Shankland, Stephen. “Twitter engineers replacing racially loaded tech terms like ‘master,’ ‘slave’.” CNET. 2 July 2020. Twitter Engineering. “We’re starting with a set of words we want to move away from using in favor of more inclusive language, such as: https://t.co/6SMGd9celn.” Twitter, July 2, 2020. Zap, Claudine. “Washington state gets rid of sexist language.” Yahoo News, July 3, 2013. Last reviewed January 31, 2022 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Work Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Understand Data Administrative systems Keynes UW Connect Enterprise Document Management (EDM) eSignatures Rome Billing Management Training for Administrative Systems Appropriate use Public Records Act Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Usage Policies and Guidelines for Cloud Services Use of Public Resources for Campaigning UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture Engaging with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture (EA) at UW Getting Started with Enterprise Architecture Enterprise Architecture Resources IT Inclusive Language Guide IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning, Assessment and Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management IT Standards Prepare for business disruptions Printing Resources for technical staff Microsoft Technology Community Return to campus technology guide User Experience (UX) Design Resources UW-IT Billing UW-IT Design Guide Cable, Pathway, Wi-Fi Materials & Services Contract UW-IT Service Catalog UWFT Technical (FTT) Workday Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing the speed of your home internet connection My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA