Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Appropriate use Public Records Act Home Appropriate use Public Records Act Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Usage Policies and Guidelines for Cloud Services Use of Public Resources for Campaigning UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Public Records Act UW faculty and staff should keep the following five points in mind with respect to RCW 42.56, the Washington State Public Records Act: 1. Almost every communication is a public record. Public records can be in many forms, not just paper documents. A public record is considered to be information and data—regardless of physical format or characteristic—used, created or maintained in the conduct of government. Each record has a legally required retention schedule. The record’s custodian is responsible for assuring that the records comply with the retention schedule. More information about retention schedules may be found at http://f2.washington.edu/fm/recmgt/. Types of public records include emails, text messages, tweet and Facebook postings, photos, calendars, audio and video recordings, databases and sticky notes. The law applies to records related to the conduct of government, regardless of where they are stored. 2. Most records may be disclosed. The scope of the Public Records Act is broad: Any record — or any part — that is not specifically exempt may be disclosed. Records that may be exempted include those for student records, patient records, research records, employees’ personal address and telephone number, and attorney-client privileged records. The UW values transparency. 3. Keep informal communications offline. Informal communications can be easily misunderstood, such as the following: Casual emails Attempted humor Speculation Unprofessional discussions about people and situations Personnel matters 4. When there is a records request: (a) Do search. (b) Don’t delete. Most large penalties related to the Public Records Act are the result of inadequate initial efforts to find and produce requested records and to subsequent inadequate efforts to provide the requested records. Again, all records have a retention schedule required by RCW 40.14, the Preservation and Destruction of Public Records Act. No records may be destroyed that are responsive to a public records request. 5. Rely on the UW Public Records and Open Meetings Office. The UW Public Records and Open Meetings Office is the statutory authority that oversees compliance with the public records law. That office will help you comply with the law. That office knows the processes and rules. Forward records requests to that office. Turn over the records you find to that office. Be open and candid with that office so they can help. More information Departmental Guidelines for the Release of University Records, APS 57.9 What to Do When You Receive a “Litigation Hold” Notice Guidelines for Electronic Discovery at the University of Washington UW Public Records and Open Meetings Office Records Management Services See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Appropriate use Public Records Act Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Usage Policies and Guidelines for Cloud Services Use of Public Resources for Campaigning UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA