Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Home Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline Set up a security key How to sign in with 2FA Use the “remember me” option Opt in to use 2FA on the web Hardware tokens Lost or stolen 2FA device Report fraudulent 2FA requests Frequently asked questions About 2FA eligibility Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Set up a smartphone or tablet Follow these steps to set up your smartphone or tablet as a two-factor authentication (2FA) device. Once you set up your smartphone or tablet, Duo Mobile can be used to sign in with 2FA, with or without an internet connection. Set up your smartphone or tablet using Duo Mobile In your browser Follow these steps using a browser on your computer: StepsActions Navigate to https://identity.uw.edu/2fa Sign in with your UW NetID and password. If you haven’t already, agree to the Duo terms of service. If this is your first 2FA device, read the brief information to “Protect Your University of Washington Account” and click Start setup. If you already have a device set up, sign in with one of your 2FA devices and click “Add another device”. Select “Mobile Phone” (recommended), or “Tablet” if you’re enrolling up a tablet. Enter your valid US mobile phone number. If you’re enrolling a tablet, you’ll automatically skip this step and go to step 6. When Duo detects that you have entered a phone number, it will display a checkbox with the number you have entered. Confirm that this is the correct phone number by clicking the checkbox, or correct the number, if needed. Click Continue. Select what type of smartphone you’re enrolling (e.g. iPhone, Android) and click Continue. Duo will provide brief instructions for installing Duo Mobile on your type of device. On your device Follow these steps on your smartphone or tablet: StepsActions If you haven’t already installed Duo Mobile, go to the app store for your device and search for “Duo Mobile” and install the app. You may be asked to approve permission to use the camera on your device – this is so that the Duo Mobile app can scan the activation code in step 12. If you do not want to approve these permissions you can instead use the activation link mentioned in step 13. Once Duo Mobile is installed on your device, go back to the browser on your computer and click I have Duo Mobile installed. Open Duo Mobile on your device. In Duo Mobile, select “Set up account” (if shown) and tap “Add Account” or tap the “+” symbol in the upper right corner. Point the camera on your device at the quick response (QR) code displayed in the browser on your computer. Duo Mobile will scan the QR code and add “University of Washington” to the list of accounts. If you used the mobile browser on your device for steps 1-7 (above), and therefore cannot use the phone camera to scan the QR code, select “Have an activation link emailed to you instead.” Enter your email address and select Send email. Duo will send you a Duo Mobile activation link. On your device, check your email and click the link in the email from Duo to activate Duo Mobile. Duo Mobile will open and “University of Washington” will be in the list of accounts. Back in your browser Now return to the browser on your computer: StepsActions Duo places a green check mark over the QR code to indicate success. Click Continue. Set up is complete. Duo will show “My Settings & Devices”. On this screen you can change the name of your device or add another device (recommended). What’s next? Now that you have set up your device, you’re ready to sign in with 2FA when it’s required. We also recommend setting up one other device in case you lose your primary device. Need help? See 2FA FAQs or contact us for support. See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline Set up a security key How to sign in with 2FA Use the “remember me” option Opt in to use 2FA on the web Hardware tokens Lost or stolen 2FA device Report fraudulent 2FA requests Frequently asked questions About 2FA eligibility My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA