Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) How to sign in with 2FA Home Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline Set up a security key How to sign in with 2FA Use the “remember me” option Opt in to use 2FA on the web Hardware tokens Lost or stolen 2FA device Report fraudulent 2FA requests Frequently asked questions About 2FA eligibility Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT How to sign in with 2FA Two-factor authentication (2FA) adds a layer of security when you sign in with your UW NetID. First, you’ll enter your password, then use your 2FA device to confirm it’s really you. Overview Getting started You have to set up and have a 2FA device with you to sign in with 2FA. Refer to the 2FA home page to set up 2FA devices. When do I sign in with 2FA? You will be asked to sign in with 2FA when you access a system that requires it. Steps Follow these steps using a browser and your 2FA device: StepsActions Browse to the system or application that requires signing in with 2FA. It will initiate the process of signing in. Sign in with your UW NetID and password, as usual. Check “Remember me on this browser” if you’re browsing on a computer or device that you can trust to protect your browser. This option reduces how often you have to sign in with 2FA on the same web browser. Choose the sign-in option you want to use for 2FA. The options depend on what type of device(s) you have set up, as well as your 2FA settings. If you set up more than one device, choose the device you want to use. If you changed the default settings to automatically initiate your preferred sign-in option, you won’t need to choose your device or sign-in option. Send Me a Push – Select this option if you set up a smartphone or tablet to use Duo Mobile and your device has an internet connection. Duo will send your device a push notification. On your device, approve the request to continue. Call Me – Select this option if you set up a smartphone or you set up a mobile phone or landline, and you want to confirm it’s you by receiving a phone call. Duo will call you. Answer your phone and follow the instructions on the call to continue. Note this option only works with phone numbers in the US and parts of Canada. Enter a Passcode – Select this option when you have no internet connection or cellular coverage, or if you use a hardware token. If you set up a smartphone or tablet, launch Duo Mobile on your device, tap the bar containing “University of Washington”, and Duo Mobile will generate and display a passcode to use. If you’re using a hardware token, press the button on your hardware token to generate a passcode. Enter the passcode and click Log In to continue. Universal 2nd Factor (U2F) – If you set up a U2F device and you’re using a compatible browser, tap or insert your U2F device to continue. If successful using your 2FA device to confirm it’s really you, sign-in is complete. Your browser will continue to the system or application that initiated the sign-in process. Troubleshooting I don’t have my 2FA device with me If you don’t have any of your 2FA devices with you, contact us. We’ll verify your identity over the phone and give you a temporary bypass code to sign in with 2FA. If your 2FA device is lost or stolen, refer to our info on lost or stolen 2FA devices. I took too long to sign in, and it timed out If you don’t approve a push notification or phone call within the allowed time, your request will time out. If this happens, try again by selecting “Send Me a Push” or “Call me” a second time. Or start the sign-in process again from the beginning. My passcode is incorrect If you enter an incorrect passcode, sign-in will fail. Generate a new passcode from Duo Mobile or your hardware token and try again. My hardware token stopped working Hardware tokens can get “out of sync” if the button is pressed too many times without signing in. Refer to our information on hardware tokens to learn how to resynchronize your hardware token. Last reviewed March 6, 2020 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline Set up a security key How to sign in with 2FA Use the “remember me” option Opt in to use 2FA on the web Hardware tokens Lost or stolen 2FA device Report fraudulent 2FA requests Frequently asked questions About 2FA eligibility My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA