Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect IT at the UW – Student Quick-Start Guide Graduating Students: Preserve your UW Work Home IT at the UW – Student Quick-Start Guide Top Tech Tips for UW Students Graduating Students: Preserve your UW Work Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Graduating Students: Preserve your UW Work Congratulations on making it this far and being so close to earning your degree! In the excitement, remember to preserve your hard work before graduation. Don’t lose all the hard work that got you here. Before you graduate Forward your UW email address During the third week of the second consecutive quarter in which you are not registered as a student, you will receive an email notification stating that computing services for your UW NetID, including your UW Google account and UW Office 365 account, will expire in 14 days and will then be permanently deleted. Note that summer quarter is excluded and does not count towards the deletion timeline. Click here to review the UW Google Account & Data Deletion timeline for students Click here to review the UW Office 365 Account & Data Deletion timeline for students To continue to access emails sent to your UW email address, you must: Set your email forwarding address to forward to a non-UW email address. Go through your UW email and forward any important email or attachments to a non-UW email address. Learn more about migrating your email and data. Due Date: During the third week of the second consecutive quarter in which you are not registered as a student (excluding summer quarter), you will receive an email notification stating that computing services for your UW NetID, including your UW Google account and UW Office 365 account, will expire in 14 days and will then be permanently deleted. Preserve your UW work After you leave the UW, the documents and data that you created or have stored using UW services will be permanently deleted. Your work may be useful at some point to create a portfolio for a job search or grad school application. You might also find that you own critical files for ongoing UW work or research that need to be transferred to another person at UW. Therefore, it’s important to take time to before you graduate go through the UW services (UW Google Drive, UW Office 365 OneDrive for Business, Canvas, etc.) you have used as a student and transfer any documents and data that you wish to preserve. We strongly recommend that you take care of your UW files ASAP, while you are still a student. Take steps to preserve your UW work now. That way, you can focus on graduation and life beyond without worrying about losing all the hard work that got you there. Think about where these documents and data should live. If they are for your personal records and use, transfer them to your personal non-UW accounts. If they are for use by a UW group or department (e.g., work you did while a UW employee, research for a UW research group, etc.), talk to your manager or instructor about where to transfer files. For your Google Drive files: Migrate documents and data from your UW Google account to a personal account. Find files you own, download them for storage in other accounts, or transfer ownership of the files to another account. Due Date: During the third week of the second consecutive quarter in which you are not registered as a student (excluding summer quarter), you will receive an email notification stating that computing services for your UW NetID, including your UW Google account and UW Office 365 account, will expire in 14 days and will then be permanently deleted. For your Office 365 files: Go through your Office 365 account and associated apps. Download any files that you want to keep and save to your non-UW accounts. Here are some additional file ownership considerations for OneDrive for Business to keep in mind. Due Date: During the third week of the second consecutive quarter in which you are not registered as a student (excluding summer quarter), you will receive an email notification stating that computing services for your UW NetID, including your UW Google account and UW Office 365 account, will expire in 14 days and will then be permanently deleted. For Canvas files: Look over your old Canvas courses and download any documents that you want to preserve. Due Date: You will have access to Canvas for five years after you graduate, but an instructor may close or delete a Canvas course at any time. To ensure access, it is good practice to transfer important documents before you leave the university. For files saved on U Drive: Don’t forget about files you might have stored on U Drive! Access UDrive to see what you might have stored there and how to move those files elsewhere. For everything else: Before you graduate, take time to think about the apps and services you have used. If they are associated with your UW email address, UW Google account, UW Office 365 account, UW NetID, or are dependent on your student status, make sure to transfer any documents and data that you would like to preserve to a non-UW account. Review additional information around UW account expiration. Please take a look at the UW’s Graduation and Commencement and After Graduation pages for information around other things you should consider as you head toward graduation. Graduating International students should take a look at the Final Year Checklist for graduating International students. Last reviewed May 7, 2021 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home IT at the UW – Student Quick-Start Guide Top Tech Tips for UW Students Graduating Students: Preserve your UW Work My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA