Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Network Addresses at the UW Home Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Connecting in UW Housing Hospitality Wi-Fi Access Points Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) Service Husky OnNet for Sponsored NetIDs Download and use Husky OnNet Update Husky OnNet Husky OnNet FAQs Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Phase 1: Remote Desktop and File-Sharing Applications Network Addresses at the UW Domain Naming System (DNS) IPv6 Next Generation Internet Protocol Private Address Routing Request Campus Subdomains and Non-UW Domains Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Network Addresses at the UW In order to use the Internet, your computer or device connected to the campus network needs a unique number called an IP (Internet Protocol) address. The way you can get this IP address depends on what operating system you are using, and where you are located. Individual Computers Network Domains Private Address Routing UW-IT’s Role Individual Computers Dynamic IP Addresses Most computers can be configured to automatically receive an IP address each time they connect to the network. These are known as Dynamic IP addresses and no registration is required. Check with your system administrator about Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) configuration. One big advantage to using DHCP is if you move your machine to another office on a different subnet, the configuration is completely transparent. You do not need to change any of the settings. This also applies to mobile devices connected to the UW wireless networks, as they may seamlessly roam between different buildings and locations all over campus. DHCP clients receive an address with a set lease time. Halfway through the lease time the client will renew the lease with the server for the same address. A machine that remains on the same network and is online at least once within the lease period will retain the same address so long as the specific pool does not fill up. Static IP Addresses Dynamic IP addresses using DHCP are not ideal when you have a server or system that needs to remain on the same IP address. A static IP address is an address that doesn’t change. Once a device is assigned a static IP address, that IP address typically stays the same until the device is decommissioned or network architecture changes. Static IP addresses generally are used by servers or other important equipment. If you are an Administrative Contact of a group which has a range of IP addresses delegated to you through the Networks Portal, you may add a reservation or PTR record to a specific address and configure your machine to use that address. For reservations, we typically want to have a contact name, phone number, email address and/or UWNetID, and building and room location. Static IP addresses only work on the specific network that the wallport and switchport are configured for, and if your machine changes location, especially to another building it will no longer work. In addition to the IP address itself, you will need to update the gateway, the subnet mask, and enter in DNS servers manually. Users should never configure a DHCP address statically into their machine, as that will cause IP address conflicts and may result in your wallport being disabled. If you do not have admin access through the Networks Portal but wish to request a static IP address from UW-IT, Send a Question to UW Technology and fill out the form on the page. Write “IP/DNS assignment” in the topic field of the form. Alternatively you may contact UW Technology Network Operations at 206-221-5000 or help@uw.edu. In order to speed processing of your request via e-mail or over the phone, please be sure to include the following information: Contact’s full name Contact’s email address Contact’s phone number Building and room number (Optional) Hardware type (e.g. Macintosh, PC) (Optional) O/S (e.g. MacOSX, Vista, WinXP, Linux) (Optional) Subnet (if known) Note that UW Information Technology does not administer all subnets on campus. If your subnet does not fall under UW Information Technology administration, or if a specific departmental contact exists, you will be referred to an appropriate contact. Static DHCP entries Somewhat of a hybrid between a DHCP entry and a static IP address is the “static DHCP” or sDHCP entry. Client machines on a given network can have the same IP address provided from the DHCP server based on their hardware or MAC address. The client machine is still configured to use DHCP. Like static IP addresses, for Administrative contacts through the networks portal, sDHCP can be assigned. Select a free IP address within your address set, but instead of clicking on the IP address itself, hit the link for ‘assign static dhcp’. You must give the machine a nickname and you also must add its hardware ethernet address via the Add button in the option section below. MAC addresses should be added with the aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff format, with colons and all alpha characters in lower case. Non-administrative contacts may request an sDHCP entry from UW-IT by providing the correct subnet, a machine nickname, and its MAC address along with your name, phone number, and email address. When a machine is removed from the campus network due to age or failure, please remember to remove or have your sDHCP entry removed. When moved to another network, we believe the client machine will still receive an entirely new DHCP address but it will be subject to regular DHCP leasing and renewal processes. Network Domains Domain Naming System (DNS) Hostname Request To request a DNS hostname go to Send a Question to UW Information Technology and select the topic IP/DNS assignment. Alternatively you may send email to help@uw.edu and include the following information: Contact’s full name Contact’s email address Contact’s phone number Contact’s UW NetID (optional*) Hardware type (e.g. Macintosh, PC) O/S (e.g. MacOSX, Vista, WinXP, Linux) Hostname requested (including subdomain**) IP address (or the subnet if an IP is needed) *Associating a UW NetID with a DNS hostname will allow you to take advantage of many infrastructure services (Certificate Services, Authentication Services, UW Groups, etc.). **Subdomain refers to the (typically) departmental subdomain under which you belong. There is no general campus subdomain. If you do not know your departmental subdomain, please give the name of your department. If your department does not have an established washington.edu subdomain, there is a process that can be started to get one set up. However, creating a subdomain requires several levels of approval and can be involved and time-consuming. Please contact help@uw.edu for details or follow the steps for requesting a new subdomain. Requesting New Domains and Sub-domains New sub-domains within the www.washington.edu domain can be requested as well as non-UW domains, by submitting a request to UW-IT. Private Address Routing The Private Address Routing service provides an option for increasing security of systems which do not need full, unmediated Internet connectivity. UW-IT’s Role UW Information Technology retains ultimate responsibility for the distribution and usage of IP addresses on the UW network. Unregistered usage of an IP may result in UW Information Technology restricting or shutting off your connectivity. Last reviewed August 2, 2021 Tags: ConnectionDNSInternetNetwork AddressNetwork DomainsNetworksRoutingSubdomain See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Connecting in UW Housing Hospitality Wi-Fi Access Points Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) Service Husky OnNet for Sponsored NetIDs Download and use Husky OnNet Update Husky OnNet Husky OnNet FAQs Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Phase 1: Remote Desktop and File-Sharing Applications Network Addresses at the UW Domain Naming System (DNS) IPv6 Next Generation Internet Protocol Private Address Routing Request Campus Subdomains and Non-UW Domains Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA