Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Service Catalog Service Catalog Restructure Updates Home Service Catalog Service Catalog Restructure Updates Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Service Catalog Restructure Updates UW Information Technology Customer Service and Support proposes a complete overhaul of the published UW-IT Service Catalog. The current Catalog content is poorly organized, making it difficult for customers to easily access information about and begin using our Services. Objectives include: Reorganize Service Catalog content in a logical way that is easy for our customers to use. Increase customer efficiency in using the Service Catalog by providing direct access to request forms, knowledge articles and self-service suggestions. Standardize and simplify the process for acquiring services Add new fields for HIPAA aligned, FERPA compliant, Geographic redundancy, and Security/risk. We will also explore other fields as potential additions including self-service and knowledge base articles. Move the Service Catalog to the ServiceNow portal in UW Connect Restructure the Service Catalog to give audience and authentication based views of the services that are available to them. (Students, Faculty, Staff or departmental) Build a template and best-practice guide for services in the Service Catalog Project Manager: Neil Mann Core Team Members: Felicia Watson, Matt Cruz, Leetza Pegg, Nick Rohde, William Stirling, & Jacob Morris Current Status: (as of 9/3/2019) On August 27, 2019, the new Service Catalog went live. Redirects are setup from the old service catalog and it is unreachable from external views. Any questions or comments for the new Service Catalog should be directed to help@uw.edu with ‘Service Catalog’ in the subject line. Status: (as of 6/12/2019) Development of the new catalog is largely complete, and was released to content providers (i.e., UW-IT service teams) on June 7.. Content providers will input their entries during the month of June, which will be reviewed by the service catalog process team to ensure the content is in line with the catalog standards, helping ensure a consistent experience for our customer community. We are on target for go-live on 7/31/19. The progress made to date reflects active participation from our customer community, and from UW-IT service teams, all of whom have provided input into the system design. This has included obtaining customer input on service categories, giving orientation sessions to service teams, presentations at communities of practice, and content provider user acceptance testing. Status: (as of 2/27/19) During January and February, the project team gathered user feedback through card sort exercises focused on grouping and categorizing UW-IT services. The goal of this round of customer feedback is to learn more about how customers organize and label information. This feedback aids in updating navigational schemas to make finding services more relevant to the user’s immediate needs. Work continues on developing the tool, planning additional customer feedback sessions, working with content providers to align with the new catalog requirements, and preparing for TechConnect in March. Status: (as of 11/8/18) The project officially began in March of 2018 after approval from UW-IT’s Project Review Board. The project team help Proof of Concept meetings for UW-IT Service Owner and Service Manager input in the spring of 2018 and received constructive feedback. Members of the campus community participated in Voice of the Customer sessions held during the summer. Feedback collected provided both verification the project was on the right track as well as additional ideas and customer needs for consideration. Work on user experience development began with help from UW-IT’s UX Design team. Tool design and development sprints began in October 2018. Status: (as of 3/14/2018) The team is working through a “proof of concept” and will begin working with a small group of service owners/managers on their service and how it could potentially work within a new Service Catalog. Working with these service owners we will determine and work through ideas and suggestions on how it will work for them while at the same time looking at how it will be seen by the campus customers. This process is slated to begin at the end of the month of March. Presentation Materials Presentation given to Service Owner/Service Manager Community of Practice Last reviewed September 3, 2019 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Service Catalog Service Catalog Restructure Updates My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA