Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Administrative systems eSignatures Home Administrative systems Keynes Sign in and passwords for Keynes Keynes tips, tricks, and messages Administrative Systems Operating Hours Access Forms for Keynes systems Organization Codes UW Connect UWFT UW Connect Shared Environment Prep Pilot Enterprise Document Management (EDM) Document Management System (DMS) eSignatures Training Rome Billing Management Training for Administrative Systems Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT eSignatures Related Information eSignatures login Training/Help ContentUW-IT Service Catalog eSignatures Service Catalog ItemForms & Support eSignatures Interest Form eSignatures is available free of charge to current UW staff and faculty for UW business purposes. eSignatures offers the ability to: Send: Easily upload and send documents for electronic signature to people inside or outside the University Receive: Signers receive and sign documents quickly, securely, and flexibly using phone, tablet, or computer Manage: Check document status and send reminders University of Washington departments interested in using the eSignatures service for business purposes have to follow the eSignatures onboarding process, which includes training for your team’s Delegated Admin. Please note that eSignatures service is no longer offered to hospitals and clinics. As a result of the 2020 license update, eSignatures service is limited to higher education, specifically for education, research, and administrative activities. Medical center/health care provider originated use cases for patient-related care are not permitted. Please note existing users in health institutions are eligible to continue utilizing the service. If you have questions around this change please reach out to us at help@uw.edu Each document type that will be sent through the eSignatures service to collect signatures and data must be carefully considered in terms of risk of sensitive information exposure. Before submitting the interest form please make sure to review the following principles and guidelines. Privacy Principles and Guidelines When deciding what personal data to process via eSignatures, units and departments should follow UW Privacy Office’s Values and Principles. For assistance in assessing privacy impacts, please refer to the UW Privacy Office Privacy Assessments webpage. In addition: HIPAA-protected data and credit card data may not be processed via eSignatures. Consent for the processing of Human Subjects data must follow Office of Research and Human Subjects guidance. Title 21 CFR Part 11 is not supported. Access to UW information systems or the processing of UW data comes with responsibilities. Please read the Access and Use Agreement for UW Data and Information Systems (‘Agreement’), written to describe your privacy and information security responsibilities while using eSignatures. Financial Transactions or Activities Guidelines Documents that reflect or result in financial transactions or activities must not include any organizational or personal financial data, such as bank or credit/charge card account numbers, or other information protected by financial privacy rules and regulations. These documents are subject to a formal risk assessment by the UW Finance Office. Getting Started Select simple forms: Work with your department to identify a few simple forms you would like to start out with. Simple forms are those that are sent out to specific recipients for signatures and, if needed, the entry of some information. While more advanced forms are possible, they require more expertise in DocuSign (the eSignatures tool) and aren’t recommended as a starting point. If processing data using a centralized UW form, make sure you use the most current version of the form. Idenfity a Delegated Admin: Decide who in your organizational unit should be the primary contact for and owner of your account. They will be in charge of member management and be a technical resource for learning about DocuSign and requesting additional support. Begin the onboarding process: Reach out to UW-IT with the eSignatures Interest Form. Our onboarding process will guide you through the steps necessary to ensure that eSignatures is a good fit for your team’s needs and confirm that your intended usage meets University policy and guidelines for use of eSignatures. This is normally a 2-3 week process. Note: eSignatures are governed by State and University policies; it is not possible to send documents for electronic signature without going through the onboarding process. Onboarding steps: Send interest form: Your technical contact should use the eSignatures Interest Form to indicate departmental interest. Initial review: Receive initial review and access to the DocuSign sandbox. Test in sandbox account: Your team is expected to use the sandbox account to get a feel for how the eSignatures sending and signing process works and understand what your team will need to do to get your forms ready for eSignatures. The sandbox must not be used for official University business. Submit additional info: In some cases your team will need to provide more information on your intended eSignatures use to complete the risk assessment process. Complete Delegated Admin training: Your team’s Delegated Admin will attend a virtual training session to understand the responsibilities of this role in eSignatures service. Receive DocuSign access: Departments’ Delegated Admin will receive access to the production DocuSign account and begin managing documents and users. How eSignatures Works Here are some short videos of simple ways to use eSignatures: Sending Documents: Quick video tutorial (90 seconds) Managing Your Documents: Quick video tutorial (90 seconds) Using & Creating Templates: Quick video tutorial (2 minutes) Signing Experience for Recipients: Quick video tutorial (90 seconds) FAQs Are DocuSign signatures legally binding? Electronic signatures provided by DocuSign are legally accepted by regulatory and governmental bodies. What is the cost of this service? At this time DocuSign is offered at no cost to the organizations. Can I send or receive HIPAA-protected information through DocuSign? No, the eSignatures service may not be used for documents that contain HIPAA-protected information. However, the eSignatures service may be used for documents that request HIPAA authorization for research purposes and must adhere to the Human Subjects Division’s guidance on this topic. Why is a risk assessment required? In order to ensure legal compliance and reduce potential losses resulting from improper electronic signatures, governmental agencies must develop a process for evaluating their use of electronic signatures before implementation. The University of Washington has developed a “risk assessment” process similar to that used by federal and state central services agencies in order to assess the risks associated with using electronic signatures. As part of this process, before approving the use of an electronic signature in a particular case, the University will consider: the likelihood of a successful challenge to the validity of the electronic signature, and the monetary loss, or other adverse impact, that could result from such a successful challenge to the enforceability of the electronic signature. In order to allow the University to adequately assess such risk, departments must submit a preliminary risk assessment form, and, if required, a risk assessment form, which will be evaluated centrally. The University will evaluate the risks associated with the proposed use, based on the information provided, and determine whether a particular use of an electronic signature solution is appropriate. Approval of a particular use of an electronic signature solution shall not constitute approval of other uses of an electronic signature solution or approval of the use of a different electronic signature solution. Last reviewed April 14, 2022 Tags: adobe signAuthentisignautomate signaturedocusignechosignelectronic documentselectronic signatureelectronic workflowenterprise document managementesignesignatureesignatureseSignLivehellosignnitro cloudsignsign pdfsignature See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Administrative systems Keynes Sign in and passwords for Keynes Keynes tips, tricks, and messages Administrative Systems Operating Hours Access Forms for Keynes systems Organization Codes UW Connect UWFT UW Connect Shared Environment Prep Pilot Enterprise Document Management (EDM) Document Management System (DMS) eSignatures Training Rome Billing Management Training for Administrative Systems My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA