Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Home Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Adding new affiliations to your personal UW NetID Shared UW NetIDs Admin UW NetIDs Sponsored UW NetIDs Set UW NetID Recovery Options Expiration of access to IT services Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline Set up a security key How to sign in with 2FA Use the “remember me” option Opt in to use 2FA on the web Hardware tokens Lost or stolen 2FA device Report fraudulent 2FA requests Frequently asked questions About 2FA eligibility Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT About UW NetIDs On This Page Your personal UW NetID Reset or change your password Other UW NetID types Expirations Your personal UW NetID Your personal UW NetID (and its password) provides access to many UW online services including MyUW and UW Email. Your UW NetID verifies who you are, ensures the privacy of your personal information, and restricts the use of UW resources to authorized users. Don’t have a UW NetID yet? Get a personal UW NetID Manage your UW NetID Services: View and manage your services Set UW NetID Recovery Options: Set up a password recovery email address or phone Reset or change your password If you know your UW NetID, you can reset a forgotten password or change your password at any time. Reset a Forgotten UW NetID password: UW NetID Recovery Change your UW NetID password: UW NetID Password Change To reset a forgotten password online Prerequisites: You know your UW NetID. If you don’t know your UW NetID see the section below, “Recover Forgotten UW NetID.” You have access to your recovery email or phone, if you set one up. If you don’t have access to your recovery email or phone, contact the UW-IT Service Center at help@uw.edu or 206-221-5000. You may still be able to reset your password through this tool if you haven’t set up a recovery email or phone, but in some cases you will be directed to call the Registrar’s Office or UW-IT Service Center. StepsActions Open a web browser and go to: UW NetID Recovery Type your UW NetID and click Next. If you don’t know your UW NetID see the section below “Recover Forgotten UW NetID.” Certain types of UW NetIDs (e.g. shared, admin, SCCA, FHCRC) may require you to log in with another UW NetID or your home institution credentials. Two-factor authentication is required to reset admin UW NetID passwords. Type the requested information and click Next. Click the button for how you want to receive your security code. Keep this web page open while you wait for the code. Note: If you have previously set up only secret questions for account recovery, you will see them instead. Type the security code and click Next. Type the new password in the Password box, and again in the Verify box. Click Set New Password. Your password is changed. You can close your browser or click Continue to go back to the recovery settings page. Note: If you used secret questions to reset your password, they will be deleted and will be prompted to set up SMS or email recovery options. The following are common reasons you might not be able to reset your password: You began creating your UW NetID but did not complete the process. Visit https://identity.uw.edu/new/ to finish creating your UW NetID. Your NetID is disabled or password reset is not allowed. Contact the UW-IT Service Center at help@uw.edu or 206-221-5000. If you need help resetting your password, please contact help@uw.edu. Recover forgotten UW NetID You can recover a forgotten UW NetID at the following site: https://identity.uw.edu/new/find You will be asked to provide certain information based on how you are affiliated with the University. Alternatives to online password reset If you would rather not use the online method, there are alternatives: By phone: Current UW faculty, staff, and clinicians can call the UW Information Technology Service Center at 206-221-5000 Changing your password by phone requires verification of your identity. You may be asked to FAX (not email) your photo ID and a phone number. In person: Students, student applicants, and alumni should come to the UW Information Technology Service Center with an appropriate photo ID. The Service Center staff will give you a temporary UW NetID password that you can then change to something known only to you. If this is a hardship for you, please call the Service Center. If you obtained your UW NetID through another organization that has a relationship with the UW, such as Cascadia College, SCCA, or Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, you can reset your password using the online method described above, or contact your organization’s support services to change your password. Protect your password Prevent someone else from using your UW services: Use passwords that are difficult to guess. Never tell anyone your password. UW staff, including UW Information Technology consultants, will NEVER ask for your password. Email messages that ask you to send your UW NetID and password (such as to “verify your account”) are fakes and should not be responded to. Sponsor a UW NetID The sponsor a UW NetID process is for UW faculty or staff members to provide a personal UW NetID for individuals who are not otherwise eligible for one. Other UW NetID types Shared Shared UW NetIDs are used when a number of people want to share the same account or email address, normally for departmental use. Temporary/Visitor Temporary/Visitor UW NetIDs provide a visitor or guest with access to UW’s wireless networks. Temporary UW NetIDs are recycled and should not be used for providing access to other systems. Admin Admin UW NetIDs are used for administering Windows workstations, servers, or domains. Expirations Your personal UW NetID does not expire. Your access to specific IT services is based on your current affiliations with the UW, and access to many services will expire when your affiliations change. You will occasionally receive a notification of service expiration from the UW. These notifications are for access to IT services (such as email, web publishing, etc.), and they do not indicate that your UW NetID or email forwarding is expiring. If you have questions about your service expirations, please contact the UW-IT Service Center at 206-221-5000, or email help@uw.edu. No longer an active student, faculty, or staff member? Refer to Expiration of access to IT services to learn more about schedules and notifications for IT service eligibility and expirations. Your UW NetID is permanent In general, your UW NetID is permanent and cannot be changed except in rare circumstances. For more information, send email to help@uw.edu. Last reviewed April 29, 2019 Tags: AccessAuthenticationForgot PasswordLoginnetidPasswordPassword ResetresetUW NetIDuwnetid See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Adding new affiliations to your personal UW NetID Shared UW NetIDs Admin UW NetIDs Sponsored UW NetIDs Set UW NetID Recovery Options Expiration of access to IT services Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline Set up a security key How to sign in with 2FA Use the “remember me” option Opt in to use 2FA on the web Hardware tokens Lost or stolen 2FA device Report fraudulent 2FA requests Frequently asked questions About 2FA eligibility My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA