Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Warehouse Home Enterprise Data Services Enterprise Data Platform Customer Stories Data Security Request Access to Reports, Analytics, and Data DAC and SMAT Enterprise Data Warehouse Help: Enterprise Data Warehouse Enterprise Web Services Swagger: Interactive API Documentation Getting Started with Enterprise Data Reporting and Analytics Data Cubes Data Visualizations (Tableau) Help: Reports and Analytics Reports Understand Data EDW Data Models Term and Data Definitions (Knowledge Navigator) Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Enterprise Data Warehouse UW-IT Service Catalog Enterprise Data Warehouse The Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) is a secure, central system of reference that integrates data from many sources across UW so faculty, staff, and students can make data-informed decisions. It stores current and historical data that are used to support operational reporting and strategic analysis. The goal of the EDW is to support better, faster, data-informed decision making. Sometimes what you seek is available among the scores of off-the-shelf reports and analytics. But when it’s not, you can query the data directly in the EDW. Learn more about the EDW and check out our Case Study Get access to the data You need to be authorized via ASTRA with an EDW role to access EDW data. Follow this link to review or update your access. Request Access Understand the data If you’re a query-writer, you know one of the biggest challenges to success is understanding the meaning of the data and how to apply the business rules to get the correct information. These resources can help you get started. Knowledge Navigator Data Models Connect to the data In order to query EDW data, you need to first connect to it using your UW NetID credentials. The process to connect to EDW data can vary depending on: Your computer’s operating system The type and version of your query tool The network domain in which your computer resides If you are unable to connect after following our recommended steps, please contact help@uw.edu. Connect to the EDW Query the data No matter which query tool you use, you will be querying secured views rather than tables. Learn where to find the views and how to refer to them in your query. Query Help Find out more about the EDW Got more questions about using the EDW? Our FAQ has answers! EDW FAQ EDW News New CoreData Database provides a standard set of country names, abbreviations, and codes Apr. 08, 2022 Prior to 2021, the UW lacked a uniform list of countries from which to perform… UWSDBDataStore Reorg on October 23, 2021 Oct. 12, 2021 The student database (SDB) will go through a reorganization on October 23, 2021 which will… UWSDBDataStore Reorg on June 5, 2021 May. 14, 2021 The student database (SDB) will go through a reorganization on June 5, 2021 which will… Next page See a problem on this page? Let us know. My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA