Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Email and calendaring Email resources and information Protecting your email Home Email resources and information Mailman Email List Manager Owners and Moderators Guide Subscribers Guide Request a List Configure a Mailman List Mailman FAQ Regular Expressions in Mailman Mailman Policies Mailman Service Metrics Protecting your email Forwarding email as an attachment Rejecting file attachments The electronic directory service (LDAP) Bulk email at the UW How the Junk Email Function Works Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Protecting your email Fighting viruses and spam What the UW is doing Scanning and monitoring Most email going to and from the UW is scanned by programs that identify messages that carry viruses and rate the likelihood that a message is junk mail or “spam” (they give each message a spam score). Because of the massive volume of spam, these programs automatically filter out and reject all inbound and outbound messages with a spam score equal to or greater than 70 (inbound) and 95 (outbound) (out of a possible maximum score of 100). Certain types of attachments to messages are automatically removed because they are frequently used as a way to deliver malicious software (malware) to computers. Email relayed through the UW’s central email servers is scanned for viruses. Any infected email message is discarded, and no notification is sent to the sender or the recipient. What you can do Report suspicious email If you receive a message that you think is potentially malicious, such as a message from a bank asking you to login and change your password, follow these steps: DO NOT click on any links in the message nor respond to the message. Identify the message as spam vs. phishing: Spam is unsolicited email, typically sent to a widespread audience, that is usually from someone who is trying to get you to buy something. A phishing email is a type of spam in which the sender tries to get you take a specific action, such as clicking on a link, entering your UW NetID credentials, or downloading an attachment If you receive an email you suspect is phishing, in which someone is trying to get you to download an attachment or enter your UW NetID and password onto a fake web page, send the email as an attachment to help@uw.edu. If you receive an email you suspect is spam, in which someone tries to sell you a product (such as cheap medication), send the email as an attachment to reportedspam@cac.washington.edu. Doing so will help UW email managers better configure our systems to recognize and filter out such messages. The message will also be reported to industry spam and phishing tracking services. More information about spam and phishing is available from the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO): Phishing risk advisory Phishing examples Filter out spam Unwanted email messages (spam) fill up your Inbox and often contain links to malicious sites that will try to attack your computer. Use the spam filter of your email service to minimize exposure to this hazard. Spam filtering for UW Exchange Online and UW Gmail Be skeptical Computer viruses and worms are programs that makes copies of themselves and infect computer files. Most viruses and some worms need your help before they can infect your computer. You can avoid helping them by doing the following: Do not open unexpected email attachments. Even attachments in messages from people you know may be infected because viruses often have fake “From:” addresses. Do not download unknown programs, such as free screensavers. Do not trade lots of unknown files, such as with peer-to-peer programs like Kazaa. The more unknown files you download, the more likely that some of them contain viruses or worms. Do not believe amazing offers and unlikely stories. Keep your computer clean It is UW policy that all computers connecting the UW networks should be well managed to minimize the chance that they will get infected. This policy applies no matter what computer you are using (office, portable, or home) and no matter how you connect (by modem from home, by wireless in a lecture hall, from your personal ISP account, or by plugging in to a wall connection on campus). If you do get infected, it is a very serious problem: An infected computer is a hazard to the UW networks and other UW computers. You have a responsibility to promptly clean your computer. Your connection to UW networks will be blocked if your computer is the source of virus and worm attacks on other computers. To be able to get to the Internet again, you will have to clean your computer (probably rebuild it) and then have your connection unblocked. Use antivirus software To further protect yourself and others from viruses, UW Information Technology strongly recommends that all computers accessing UW networks and services run antivirus software. Find the Sophos antivirus program on Securing Your Computer. Be sure to regularly download and install the updated data files. New viruses are appearing constantly, and your antivirus program needs the latest data to be effective. Automatically update your OS and antivirus software Viruses and worms try to take advantage of known weaknesses in operating systems. In many cases, patches to these weaknesses are available. The safest approach is to configure your operating system to automatically install patches as they become available. The antivirus software you use must also have current data to be able to detect the latest attacks. It is strongly recommended that you follow the instructions that come with your antivirus program to configure it to automatically update so your always have the latest data. Sophos antivirus software for Windows and Macintosh computers is available for download to all UW faculty, staff, and students at no direct cost. Last reviewed July 23, 2019 Tags: AntivirusEmailEmail SpamJunk EmailPhishingPhishing examplesRisk advisorySpamVirus See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Email resources and information Mailman Email List Manager Owners and Moderators Guide Subscribers Guide Request a List Configure a Mailman List Mailman FAQ Regular Expressions in Mailman Mailman Policies Mailman Service Metrics Protecting your email Forwarding email as an attachment Rejecting file attachments The electronic directory service (LDAP) Bulk email at the UW How the Junk Email Function Works My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA