Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Husky OnNet Home Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Connecting in UW Housing Hospitality Wi-Fi Access Points Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) Service Husky OnNet for Sponsored NetIDs Download and use Husky OnNet Update Husky OnNet Husky OnNet FAQs Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Phase 1: Remote Desktop and File-Sharing Applications Network Addresses at the UW Domain Naming System (DNS) IPv6 Next Generation Internet Protocol Private Address Routing Request Campus Subdomains and Non-UW Domains Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Husky OnNet Overview About Husky OnNet Get Husky OnNet for MacOS, Windows, Linux Need Husky OnNet for a mobile device? Why Husky OnNet? What is a VPN and how does Husky OnNet work? When do you need Husky OnNet? When don’t you need Husky OnNet? Appropriate use of Husky OnNet Support Overview Husky OnNet provides a secure connection for remote access: Husky OnNet (HON) provides individual users (current UW students, faculty and staff) with a secure connection to the UW network from remote locations, such as from home, a coffee shop, at the airport, etc, while using a third-party Internet Service Provider (ISP), such as Comcast or CenturyLink. Husky OnNet is a free individual VPN for UW students, faculty and staff: HON is a virtual private network (VPN) software application available free for UW students, faculty and staff to download from UWare. A VPN is critical to help protect personal and University data and information on the UW network. There is also a VPN service for departments: The Husky OnNet Department (HON-D) service is available to UW departments/units that wish to allow connections for certain individuals from on- or off-campus locations to departmentally restricted network resources. General access to the UW network via Husky OnNet is insufficient to access restricted department/unit network segments. Learn more about the Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) service to support secure connections from both on- and off-campus locations to departmentally restricted subnets using a departmentally controlled authorized users access list. About Husky OnNet Husky OnNet is the branded name of the UW VPN service provided by UW-IT. The underlying technology is from F5 Networks; the apps are called F5 BIG-IP Edge client applications. Get Husky OnNet for MacOS, Windows, Linux Husky OnNet is available free for UW students, faculty and staff to download from UWare. Each UW-issued or personally owned computer will need a VPN to access restricted resources on the UW network. Learn more about downloading and using Husky OnNet. Requirements Internet connection Appropriately configured computer running current operating systems for MacOS, Windows, or Linux Up-to-date Husky OnNet app downloaded from UWare Eligible Users Current UW faculty, staff and students Authorized Husky OnNet – Department users Sponsored NetIDs for which the Assign Husky OnNet Services tool has been used by the sponsor to authorize access; requires valid UW budget. UW Medicine & clinical departments should NOT use Husky OnNet to access restricted UW Medicine resources. Users in UW Medicine & clinical departments should visit UW Medicine Remote Access for access to restricted UW Medicine resources, or email UW Medicine IT Services at mcsos@uw.edu for more information. Note: While ineligible persons may be able to download and install the application, access will be denied after entering an ineligible UW NetID. Need Husky OnNet for a mobile device? Husky OnNet uses the F5 Access client application for mobile, which is available for a number of devices, including iOS, Android, Chrome, and others in appropriate app stores. See the Husky OnNet FAQs for additional information for configuring mobile devices. Why Husky OnNet? Most organizations, UW included, have network-connected resources and applications that are available ONLY to computers and devices that are members of the network. This refers to internal, non-public resources and applications unavailable to devices connecting from the internet at large. These include teaching and learning tools, research databases, financial applications, administrative applications, departmental servers, printers, desktops, subscription-based online journals, and more. What is a VPN and how does Husky OnNet work? If you try to connect remotely to the UW’s private network via a third-party internet service provider (ISP) like Comcast or CenturyLink, without first using Husky OnNet or another UW VPN your access will be denied. This is because your device was assigned an IP address on that ISP’s network, not on the UW’s network. What you need is the UW network to recognize your computer or device. That’s where Husky OnNet or another UW VPN comes in. Using Husky OnNet, you create a secure, encrypted connection to the UW network from within the ISP connection is created. HON assigns a UW network IP address to your computer or device and allows the UW network to “see” it as a local member and provide access. When do you need Husky OnNet? You will need to use Husky OnNet (or another UW VPN) to remotely connect to resources on the UW network and those resources that are restricted to the UW network. These non-public UW network resources and applications include: teaching and learning tools research databases financial applications administrative applications departmental servers printers desktops subscription-based online journals When you are off-campus, what can you access? The table below illustrates what resources can be accessed with various connections and Husky OnNet configurations. Using just an internet connection Using an internet connection with Husky OnNet active “UW Campus Network Traffic” option selected “All Internet Traffic” option selected Any public internet site (e.g., www.google.com) ✔ ✔ ✔ Resources accessible only from the UW network: e.g., printers, desktops, file servers ✔ ✔ Off-campus resources accessible only to users connecting from the UW Network e.g., various subscription-based services ✔ For most Husky OnNet users, the “UW Campus Network Traffic” option is all that is needed. This option allows access to most necessary UW network resources without routing all Internet use through the Husky OnNet service. Only users who need to access resources that are not located on the UW campus, but are restricted to connections from the UW networks, need to use the “All Internet Traffic” option. When don’t you need Husky OnNet? You do not need Husky OnNet or another UW VPN for email, uw.edu webpages, Google Drive, Office 365, Workday, Canvas, or DropBox, among others. Appropriate use of Husky OnNet When you run Husky OnNet, all UW campus network traffic goes over the Husky OnNet connection and is subject to the UW Appropriate Use Policy. All users are bound by the Terms and Conditions for use of this software, regardless of operating system or device. Husky OnNet is not appropriate for use in the following situations: Any connection to the UW network that must persist beyond 72 continuous hours. Off-campus locations that are leased or owned by UW and have a UW facilities code (e.g., building designator or facility number). In these cases, please contact UW-IT at help@uw.edu for appropriate UW network connectivity for your location. Off-campus areas that provide UW Wi-Fi access. Off-campus areas that require physical UW telephones. Off-campus situations requiring the origination or receipt of Big Data or large data transfers. Support Husky OnNet for MacOs and Windows UW-IT can assist users in downloading, installing, and making a successful connection to the UW network using Husky OnNet on a MacOS or Windows operating system. Downloading and Using Husky OnNet Frequently Asked Questions If online support materials do not resolve your questions related to the support issues described above, please contact the UW-IT Service Desk at help@uw.edu or 206 221 5000. Technology Help Desk and the Computer Vet UW-IT support is NOT available for the following: Getting an ISP connection Troubleshooting an ISP connection Configuration or compatibility issues on your device Devices not running a current version of MacOS or Windows operating system Devices not using the UWare-supplied versions of the MacOS or Windows Husky OnNet applications Devices running a Linux operating system Issues or problems related to non-UW-IT services accessed via Husky OnNet (?) Access to Husky TV or Philo services are not permitted via Husky OnNet Husky OnNet for Linux The Linux browser helper app available through UWare should work with Chrome or Firefox and the following Linux operating systems: Ubuntu 16.0 OpenSuse leap 42.1 LinuxMint 18 Fedora 24 Debian 8, with Firefox browser. Chrome is not supported on Debian 8 CentOS As with various other F5 apps (e.g., iOS and Android), the Linux helper apps are provided as-is. More information to help get started can be found in Husky OnNet FAQs in the section “Getting Started with Linux and Husky OnNet”. Husky OnNet for iOS, Android, etc. Husky OnNet uses the F5 Access client application, which is available for a number of devices, including iOS, Android, and others in appropriate app stores. You will need to configure an F5 BIG-IP Edge client application if you download one from your device’s app store. UW Campus Network Traffic Only (recommended): huskyonnet.uw.edu All Internet Traffic (special requirements use only): huskyonnet-ns.uw.edu See the Husky OnNet FAQs for additional information. Note: UW-IT cannot answer questions about these applications. Other UW support Where available and supported, contact your departmental IT AskF5 online support Online documentation and support for BIG-IP Edge apps Operating systems and browser compatibility for Husky OnNet v13.0.0 Known issues and behavior changes for BIG-IP APM 13.0 F5 Helper Applications for Chrome, Firefox, and Edge Browsers Search for “big-ip edge client [enter your OS/device here]” at Troubleshooting Wizard Examples: big-ip edge client macintosh big-ip edge client windows big-ip edge client iphone big-ip edge client android Last reviewed November 15, 2018 Tags: Husky OnNetRemote ConnectionVPNWorking Remotely See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Wi-Fi Advisories Configuring for Wireless Networking Eduroam Manual Long-term Registration of a Wireless Device UW MPSK Wi-Fi (Wireless) Policy Wi-Fi Access for Visitors Wi-Fi Fixed IP Address Requirements Wi-Fi LAN Security and Co-existence Guideline Wi-Fi Technology Refresh Connecting in UW Housing Hospitality Wi-Fi Access Points Wireless Routers in UW Residence Hall Rooms Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Husky OnNet – Department (HON-D) Service Husky OnNet for Sponsored NetIDs Download and use Husky OnNet Update Husky OnNet Husky OnNet FAQs Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Phase 1: Remote Desktop and File-Sharing Applications Network Addresses at the UW Domain Naming System (DNS) IPv6 Next Generation Internet Protocol Private Address Routing Request Campus Subdomains and Non-UW Domains Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA