Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate UW Event Calendar Add and edit events Home UW Event Calendar Trumba Fall 2021 Q&A Use Trumba’s T2 Editor Request a New Calendar Authorize Calendar Editors Make Your Calendar’s Web Site Accessible Display Your Calendar Online Trumba Videos Add and edit events Create Repeating, Recurring, and Multi-Day Events Import & Export Calendar Events Set up Event Registration Share Events on Other Calendars Show events on other calendars Delete a Calendar Publicize departmental events for students via MyUW Add an event to your personal calendar Subscribe an Academic Calendar Feed to Your Personal Calendar Trumba Updates UW Event Calendar Data Retention Policy UW Event Calendar Service Metrics Collaborating for Accessibility Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Add and edit events Before you can add and edit events, you need to have editor access on a calendar. Links to Trumba’s documentation: Watch the T2 interface video Add an event Add an image Make sure that you enter an image name that fully describes the image so that a non-sighted person could understand what information the image conveys. Cancel an event We generally recommend canceling rather than deleting an existing event. The event will be labeled CANCELED and remain on the displayed calendar. This method allows users to see that the event has been canceled. You can restore canceled events if needed. Trumba’s FAQs What to include in the event posting Display your event on the Campus Event Calendar See how the event will appear to viewers Available event types What to include in the event posting The Add Event form guides you through what to add, but here are some helpful tips. Description: Enter the event title here. This field must be populated in order to post an event. Keep the description short. Notes: Enter the event description, anything that you want attendees to know about the event. Editor Notes: These appear only to you and other authorized editors in your group. Campus location: As you begin typing a building name, the form will auto-complete the name, which you can then select. All campus buildings are available on their respective calendars. In addition to the campus building, use the Campus room field to add a room number and any special directions that will help people find the event. To add a map link or GPS coordinates, click Use Location. If your event is only online, type something such as “Online event” or “Zoom.” Do not enter the URL for the online event in the location field. Online Meeting Link: Use this field to add a link to your online meeting . Note: These links appear publicly, so take necessary security precautions if you choose to share the link. If you prefer not to publicize the link and are using event registration, you can send the link in the registration confirmation instead. If you are offering your online event via UW Zoom, consider requiring attendees to sign in before entering the meeting. This is the most secure measure to ensure that only authorized people attend your event. Other options for keeping UW Zoom meetings secure are to use a waiting room or passcode. Display your event on the Seattle Campus Event Calendar In order to publish an event to the Campus Event Calendar, Seattle editors must first publish an event on their departmental calendar, and then share it to the Campus Event Calendar. It is not possible to publish an event directly to the Campus Event Calendar. Most calendars in Bothell and Tacoma will automatically display on their campus calendars. To get an event to appear on the Seattle Campus Event Calendar, follow these steps: Steps Actions Go to http://trumba.uw.edu/. On your departmental calendar, click Add Event and then enter your event details. Select UW Seattle Events or the calendar where you want to show your event from the drop-down menu in the top section of the event creation page. See how the event will appear to viewers Click Preview at the bottom of the form to see a preview of the detail page for the new event. You can update the event information and preview the results as often as needed prior to saving the event. Note When previewing a new event, since it hasn’t yet been saved, you may see inconsistent results when clicking event action or other links in the preview window. New events, for example, won’t appear on the calendar when clicking the Back to Previous View link. Available event types Academics (e.g., grade deadlines, dates of instruction, application deadlines) Athletics (e.g., sporting events) Ceremonies (e.g., commencement) Conferences (e.g., large meeting events that last for multiple days) Exhibits (e.g., museum or studio events or demonstrations that last for multiple days) Information Sessions (e.g., forums, hearings, panel discussions, open houses, orientation, tours) Lectures/Seminars (e.g., including live or televised colloquium, lecture, talks) Meetings (general meetings don’t fit into other types) Performances (e.g., concerts, dance, drama, operas, readings) Screenings (e.g., films, radio, television) Special Events (e.g., sales, HR-Combined Fund Drive) Student Activities (e.g., open undergraduate or graduate student activities that don’t fit into other event types) Workshops (e.g., training, non-academic workshops, HR-Professional & Organizational Development) What if my event doesn’t match the available event types? Currently, we are not creating additional event types. Selecting multiple event types will help more people find your event when they filter on event types. Last reviewed September 9, 2021 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home UW Event Calendar Trumba Fall 2021 Q&A Use Trumba’s T2 Editor Request a New Calendar Authorize Calendar Editors Make Your Calendar’s Web Site Accessible Display Your Calendar Online Trumba Videos Add and edit events Create Repeating, Recurring, and Multi-Day Events Import & Export Calendar Events Set up Event Registration Share Events on Other Calendars Show events on other calendars Delete a Calendar Publicize departmental events for students via MyUW Add an event to your personal calendar Subscribe an Academic Calendar Feed to Your Personal Calendar Trumba Updates UW Event Calendar Data Retention Policy UW Event Calendar Service Metrics Collaborating for Accessibility My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA