Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Resources Student COVID-19 Vaccination Verification Application: Known Issues Home Resources A-Z Index About IT Sitemap Tools for You UW-IT Events Calendar Student COVID-19 Vaccination Verification Application: Known Issues Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Student COVID-19 Vaccination Verification Application: Known Issues This page is for users to find advice about known issues related to the Student COVID-19 Vaccination Verification Application. Active Issues Cannot Enter Dates for Vaccination Verification Application Recommended Action: Ensure that you are using the most updated version of your browser. We have verified that the application works on the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and Safari. More Details: For some users, the text box for entering the vaccination date(s) will only display “invalid date,” and anything typed in disappears. Users who are experiencing these issues appear to have old versions of Safari. Use one of the following browsers: Safari 14.1.2 or later Chrome 87.0.0 or later Firefox 65.0.0 or later If updating your browser or using a different browser does not fix the problem, please email help@uw.edu with the subject “Covid vaccination verification application issue after updating browser” and the following information (in order of priority) so we may investigate: On which browser(s) did you get this error? Did you use any browser plug-ins while running the verification application? Assuming you haven’t enabled any plug-ins to run in incognito mode, open the application in incognito mode. Please do the following: If you are using the Chrome browser, type Control-Shift-N (Windows) or Command-Shift-N (Mac) to open an incognito window (if you are not using Chrome and/or are unsure how to proceed we are happy to provide clarification or further instruction). Paste the following URL into your browser and see if the same error persists: https://sps.uw.edu/attestations/#/covid19. Does clearing your browser cache fix this (follow the link for instructions)? Provide the following information, if possible. Location details (e.g. On campus, in a different time zone/country) Connection details (e.g. Mobile, WiFi, VPN, wired ethernet) Error message and/or screenshot and/or video of issue Time and date the error occurred The information in the last line of the Page Footer (e.g. Version: 3.0 – Build 3.0 UWKSPROD08) so we can search our logs ID: PRB1780629 Error Encountered When Uploading Proof of Vaccination Recommended Action: Ensure your documents are one of the accepted file formats (.jpg, .jpeg, .png, .pdf) and that PDFs are smaller than 4MB. More Details: Some students get an error when they try to upload verification for their Covid-19 vaccination, which states “We have encountered an error. If this issue continues, please contact help@uw.edu.” This is typically caused by students accidentally submitting invalid file types, particularly HEIF files (the image file type used by iPhones). It is notable that renaming a file with the endings “.jpg,” “.jpeg,” or “.png” will not actually convert the file to that type; the file must be converted via a web app or exported as the valid file type. Additionally, some students are unable to submit their verification as a PDF file because the size is too large. Please note that any PDF over 4MB will not be accepted by the application, but .jpg, .jpeg, or .png files can be compressed on UW IT’s end. If you continue to encounter an error despite following the recommended action, please email help@uw.edu with the subject “Covid vaccination verification application document upload error after using accepted file formats” and the following information (in order of priority) so we may investigate: NOTE: Please do not include your proof of vaccination in this email List all the file format(s) you used If you are unable to upload a PDF, what is the file size? On which browser(s) did you get this error? Does clearing your browser cache fix this (follow the link for instructions)? Provide the following information, if possible. Location details (e.g. On campus, in a different time zone/country) Connection details (e.g. Mobile, WiFi, VPN, wired ethernet) Error message and/or screenshot and/or video of issue Time and date the error occurred The information in the last line of the Page Footer (e.g. Version: 3.0 – Build 3.0 UWKSPROD08) so we can search our logs ID: PRB1853020 Recently Resolved Issues Uploaded proof of vaccination but still showing a block Update: This was fixed on November 16th at 10:00 AM If you run into issues, please email help@uw.edu with the subject of “Urgent: Uploaded proof of vaccination but seeing block.” Recommended Action: Confirm you are seeing following Covid-19 message when you go to the Registration Page: “You will not be allowed to register for classes until you upload your COVID-19 vaccination documentation or exemption request form. The University of Washington requires all students to be vaccinated against COVID-19, with certain exemptions allowed. To resolve this registration block so you can register for classes, visit the UW COVID-19 vaccination requirements page as soon as possible to get started.” Confirm you see a message you have “successfully confirmed” your COVID-19 vaccination status on the Student Covid Immunization Verification page Email help@uw.edu with the following subject line: “Urgent: Uploaded proof of vaccination but seeing block.” Please either include your NetID or send the email from your UW email. More Details: There are many other reasons besides the Covid Block a student could be unable to register, the error message should provide details and next steps. This issue is very rare; as of 11/15 we have only seen 4 reports were registration was incorrectly blocked As of 11/15 25 incorrect blocks were found and fixed by engineers before users reported. Plan to Address: The team did a release on Nov 16th to mitigate the risk of this happening and have seen no new issues since then. We continue to monitor in order to proactively find and fix incorrect blocks. ID: PRB1890811 If you want any more information about these known issues or have any questions, please email help@uw.edu with “Covid Form Question” in the subject line and include the ID of the problem(s) in the body. Last reviewed November 24, 2021 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Resources A-Z Index About IT Sitemap Tools for You UW-IT Events Calendar Student COVID-19 Vaccination Verification Application: Known Issues My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA