Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect IT at the UW – Faculty Quick-Start Guide IT at the UW View our quick-start guides about the technology tools and resources available at the UW. Students Staff Faculty Visitors Need help? Email: help@uw.edu Phone: 206-221-5000 Online: Help form In-person: Locations More info IT at the UW – Faculty Quick-Start Guide Related Information Technology for teaching remotely UW-IT provides many resources to help instructors teach dynamic and engaging courses. Use this guide to find out about the resources available to you, and check with your local IT department for their technology recommendations and guidelines. Teaching remotely Tools for teaching classes In your office – or home office Grading and feedback Administrative Research Tutorials and training Get connected Practice safe computing Get software Resources available to students Teaching remotely The UW offers technology tools and resources that can help you create a successful remote learning experience for your students. Find out what technology tools are offered by the UW that you can use to teach remotely with the Technology for working remotely guide. Learn best practices, important policies, and essential aspects of effective remote instruction from the UW Center for Teaching and Learning’s Teaching remotely guide. Find practical guidance and resources to support you as you plan and teach your course remotely. Tools for teaching classes Provide an interactive learning experience using technology tools from the UW, and empower your students to review lectures online. Enhance your course and strengthen the learning experience with cloud-based learning tools, and leverage the power of the UW’s learning management system. Bring interactive learning to your course. Poll Everywhere is an audience response system that students can use on their own devices. No clicker required! Easily record your lectures and post them online for your students to view with Panopto, the UW-IT-supported lecture capture solution. The Canvas Learning Management System lets you easily publish course materials, simplify course management, grade assignments, as well as communicate and collaborate with students. In your office – or home office Get the most out of the UW’s online learning management tools and analyze your data with ease, on your own schedule and from wherever you like. Learn about designing your course in Canvas to get the full potential out of this tool. Tableau for teaching is easy-to-use business intelligence software used for data analysis and visualization to help you understand your data. Work from anywhere by storing your documents in the cloud with Google Drive or UW OneDrive for Business. Or you can try U Drive, and use Husky OnNet for a secure temporary connection. Administrative Submit grades, host video conferences, and stay informed about what’s happening around campus and in your work life. Submit your students’ grades easily, with the help of GradePage, which integrates with Gradebook, Canvas, and other software and makes it easy to submit your grades at the end of the quarter. Host meetings with Zoom, the UW’s only HIPPA- and FERPA-compliant video conferencing solution. Find out what’s going on around campus and online and post extracurricular events such as lectures and performances on your departmental event calendar using Trumba, the UW’s official calendar system. The new MyUW presents personal, timely, and relevant information to support your work. The upgraded Teaching page supports the quarterly workflow of preparing and leading a course. MyUW closely integrates with other teaching and learning tools and the registrar’s systems, to make use of these tools more efficient. Research Learn about the wide array of research computing tools and solutions offered by UW-IT to accelerate your research and or take advantage of expert consultation to help you choose a service tailored to your research needs (email help@uw.edu). Take advantage of Hyak, an on-site supercomputer capable of handling a broad range of workloads. You have several commercial cloud providers, including Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services, and Google Cloud Platform, to choose from, along with assistance to match your research to the best cloud solution. UW-IT offers an array of on-site data storage services, and a high performance research network supporting fast data transfers within and outside of the UW network. Grading and feedback Use online tools to make grading quick and simple, and check student work for originality against a large database. Canvas provides an easy way to provide grades and feedback for your assignments, and Canvas’ SpeedGrader allows you to grade assignments efficiently. Check for plagiarism with SimCheck plagiarism detection, which compares student papers with sources available on the Internet, select commercial article databases, and papers submitted at the UW. Tutorials and training Learn how to create an inclusive course, and expand your skills with online tutorials and in-person workshops. Keep accessibility in mind when developing courses, and be sure to create accessible documents, websites, and videos for your course. Check out workshops and online tutorials offered by Learning Technologies to learn more about the tools and services that can support your teaching. Get connected Connect to online resources at the UW, use secure wireless internet, set up your UW NetID and email, and store your work on centralized servers. Connect to the UW Networks Husky OnNet provides individual users with a secure temporary connection to the UW network from remote locations. Wireless internet access is available throughout most buildings on campus and some outdoor areas around campus. Eduroam, UW-IT’s recommended Wi-Fi network, is a free encrypted Wi-Fi network that offers more security than the unencrypted general purpose University of Washington Wi-Fi network. Eduroam provides access to the internet at the UW and at any eduroam-enabled institution in the United States and around the world. Learn about your UW NetID Your personal UW NetID (and password) provides access to many UW online services including MyUW and UW Email. Your UW NetID verifies who you are, ensures the privacy of your personal information, and restricts the use of UW resources to authorized users. Two-factor authentication (2FA) adds a layer of security when you sign in with your UW NetID. With 2FA, first you enter your password, then use a 2FA device to prove it’s really you. 2FA is required to sign into Workday. Set up your email Faculty have two options for email—forward email to a non-UW email system, or use the email services offered through the UW, UW Gmail and Exchange Online. Access your U Drive Store your work safely on UW servers with the U Drive. The U Drive provides faculty, staff and students with a place to store files that can be accessed from anywhere, on- and off-campus, and everything on your U Drive is automatically backed up. Practice safe computing Protect your computer, identity and privacy. Download free antivirus software, and learn how to protect yourself on the web. Faculty receive a free license to use Sophos Antivirus Software on University-owned computers and on their personal computers, either on campus or at home. Use safe email practices, and report any abuse, harassment or suspicious email. Be mindful of phishing attempts, and follow the best practices to avoid phishing scams advised by the Office of the Chief Information Security Officer. Get software Download essential software and discover online productivity tools available to empower your work and courses. Browse the many software downloads available to UW faculty, staff and students. Explore your options for online collaboration software, including UW Google Apps and Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus. Resources available to students Let your students know about tools that can help them plan, get into the courses they want and find the resources they need on campus. If a course is in high demand, Notify.UW can help. Students can sign up to be alerted by text or email when space in a course becomes available during registration. The MyPlan academic planning tool helps students create and manage their academic plan, find courses, compare programs, build a schedule, explore options and more. Scout helps students (and instructors!) find study spaces that meet specific criteria such as lighting, ambient noise, proximity to food and coffee, and availability of amenities such as printers, whiteboards, etc.; campus food locations; and tech items such as tablets, digital cameras, digital video cameras, laptops, data projectors, etc. (Seattle campus only). Last reviewed September 16, 2020 See a problem on this page? Let us know. My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA