Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Administrative systems Keynes Home Administrative systems Keynes Sign in and passwords for Keynes Keynes tips, tricks, and messages Administrative Systems Operating Hours Access Forms for Keynes systems Organization Codes UW Connect UWFT UW Connect Shared Environment Prep Pilot Enterprise Document Management (EDM) Document Management System (DMS) eSignatures Training Rome Billing Management Training for Administrative Systems Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Keynes Keynes is an access control system managed by UW-IT that is used to access many administrative and student database applications across the UW. Systems accessed using Keynes Getting access to Keynes How to sign into Keynes Training for systems on Keynes Keynes tips, tricks, and messages Systems accessed using Keynes The following are the most common systems accessed through Keynes. Each system can provide access to multiple applications, tools and information databases. Budget (BGT) — Includes State and Grant budgets. Student system (SDB) — Student/applicant information, including transcripts, registration inquiries, time schedules, and class lists. Financial (FIN) — Access to FIN is now limited and must be specifically requested. Please refer to ASTRA Access Management For more information about MyFD, which is the successor to FIN . Purchasing Systems (PAS) — An online requisition entry and inquiry system, for ordering from vendors off campus, reimbursements, and order/payment inquiries. PAS Entry and Update have transitioned to Ariba. Access to PAS is now limited and must be specifically requested. Pas is inquiry-only and closed for requisitions. Getting access to Keynes In order to access systems using Keynes, a user must have a personal access code for Keynes, and also be granted access to the specific system or application they seek to use. Get your personal access code To access Keynes you must have an access code. Access codes are for one person only (they cannot be shared or inherited) and users must already have a UW NetID to be granted a Keynes access code. How to request access to systems using Keynes To get access to applications through Keynes you must fill out a request form for that system or application. Typically, managers or team leaders will request access for a person that needs access to information through a system. They will request both access and level of access to the system, which determines what can be done within the system. Once an access request is processed, a Keynes access code is generated and can be used to access the necessary system through Keynes. Due to COVID-19, currently only digitally signed forms are being accepted. The required information from the form will be entered into DocuSign by our team. We will initiate the workflow for requesting signatures from all appropriate parties via email from DocuSign. Please provide the following information in your request: Who the access is for, their supervisor, and the appropriate Dean/Director/Chair If you know you will need a specific level of access that includes additional approvals, also provide that information in the request. Weekly Zoom drop in hours will be held on Wednesday, from 10 AM to 4 PM to answer questions. Request access to systems To access systems using Keynes, you must also be granted access to each system you need to use. Depending on the systems you need to access, there may separate access requests for each system. Access is typically granted based on a person’s role and what information they require, and users are only granted access to certain parts of a system for which they need access. Access to Keynes systems is tied to the department; if a user changes departments, a new access request will need to be submitted. Request access to FIN, BGT, PAS Fill out the Administrative Systems Access Form for access to FIN, BGT, and/or PAS. A separate request form is required for the Student System (SDB). Request access to SDB Faculty and Staff may click on one of the below-listed UW campuses to request SDB access: Seattle Bothell Tacoma If you are unable to open any of these forms, call 206.221.5000 or send email to help@uw.edu. Removing access To remove access for a user, supervisors must email help@uw.edu with the following user information: Full Name Keynes access codes or UW NetID Changing departments Employees who are changing departments and will need access in their new department can keep their hardware token, but will need to re-apply for access appropriate for their role in the new department by completing and sending a new Administrative Systems Access Form, or the Student Database form for the UW Seattle, Bothell, or Tacoma campus. Limits to access Keynes access codes with access to financial, purchasing, and payroll data are linked to a 10-digit departmental organization code. This allows you to access the budgets for just that department or organization. If you need to access more than one organization’s data, you are issued additional Keynes access codes, which you access by entering the “Switch” command on the main menu. When access is granted to systems and applications, typically the level of access granted is based upon a person’s role and the type of information they need to complete their work. Rather than being granted access to all information within a system or application, users will be granted access to specific types of information within a system or application. For example, with access to the Student Systems Database, access could be granted for only specific colleges and major codes. Terms, Definitions, and Instructions The following section describes terms, definitions, and more detailed instructions for various fields on the Administrative Systems Access Form. Use the below list to skip to a particular term: Requesting User Supervisor or Department Contact UW NetID Employee ID number Organization Code(s) Signatures Requesting User The person for which access is being requested. This person must satisfy the following criteria: UW Employee Current UW NetID Appointment in Workday Supervisor or Department Contact The person responsible for the work being performed in the system and determining which users need access to what information. This is frequently, but not necessarily, the supervisor of the person for which access is being requested. Please provide the name of a person whom we may contact regarding access. A supervisor/department contact should satisfy the following criteria: UW Employee in a permanent position Cannot Be the Requesting User From the same department or discipline as Requesting User; sometimes a person otherwise affiliated with the work requiring access can act as sponsor. UW NetID A UW NetID is your personal identifier for using UW online resources. Employee ID number This is the nine-digit number given to you by the UW. If you have a new faculty/staff ID card, it should be printed on the front. Check with your payroll coordinator if you’re not sure what it is. (Note: this is not your Social Security number.) Organization Code(s) List the organization code(s) this Keynes user will access. If you are unfamiliar with the budget/organization code structure for your department or college, please contact your department administrator for assistance. Signatures Signatures, using eSignatures forms, are required by the: Requesting User Supervisor/Department Contact Department Dean, Director or Chair, unless they have a designated alternative. At least three distinct signatures are required to process applications. Except in unusual cases, forms with fewer than three may be delayed or rejected. Some types of access, and some college or departmental procedures, may call for more rigorous approvals and/or additional signatures. When requesting access to organization codes outside of the requested user’s department, the chair, dean, or director who is responsible for those organization codes must also sign the form. Sign in and passwords for Keynes Instructions on how to sign into Keynes, password instructions and two-factor authentication requirements, and common login problems can be found on the Sign in and passwords for Keynes page. Training for systems on Keynes Some systems accessed using Keynes have online training documentation. Check the training for administrative systems page to see if documentation or training is available for systems you use. Keynes tips, tricks, and messages A reference page describing common functions, keyboard shortcuts, and commands is available on the Keynes tips, tricks and messages page. Last reviewed June 17, 2020 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Administrative systems Keynes Sign in and passwords for Keynes Keynes tips, tricks, and messages Administrative Systems Operating Hours Access Forms for Keynes systems Organization Codes UW Connect UWFT UW Connect Shared Environment Prep Pilot Enterprise Document Management (EDM) Document Management System (DMS) eSignatures Training Rome Billing Management Training for Administrative Systems My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA