Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Connect & Communicate Manage your identity Home Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Connecting in UW Housing Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Network Addresses at the UW Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service Email and calendaring Email resources and information Phones ADA Compliant Equipment Affiliated Organizations Campus Phones Conferencing – audio/video Customer Purchased Equipment Dialing Procedures Directory Listings Extension Connect Interactive Voice Response (IVR) [RETIRED] Policies and Procedures Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewer Telecommuter VoIP Text Messaging UW Telephone Service Basics Voicemail System Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Email and Calendaring Migrate Email and Data Provision Access to UW-IT Services Productivity Platforms Stats Productivity Platforms Recharge Services Deprecated Services Services Index Services Sitemap Television HuskyTV Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting UW Sites UW Event Calendar Trumba Fall 2021 Q&A Use Trumba’s T2 Editor Request a New Calendar Authorize Calendar Editors Make Your Calendar’s Web Site Accessible Display Your Calendar Online Trumba Videos Add and edit events Create Repeating, Recurring, and Multi-Day Events Import & Export Calendar Events Set up Event Registration Share Events on Other Calendars Delete a Calendar Publicize departmental events for students via MyUW Add an event to your personal calendar Subscribe an Academic Calendar Feed to Your Personal Calendar Trumba Updates UW Event Calendar Data Retention Policy UW Event Calendar Service Metrics Collaborating for Accessibility Manage your identity Set your pronouns in Identity.UW Learn more about pronoun indicators Integrate pronouns from Identity.UW UW announces preferred names in 2016 Preferred name guideline Explore use of digital identity wallets Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Manage your identity You and your identity are core to how you connect and communicate at the UW. This page describes how to manage your identity through self-identification and the use of IDs issued by the UW and others. Identity is more than simply about connecting to services: it also frames how others address you, enables accountability, and ensures the attribution of your work to you. Manage your identity (names, pronouns, etc.) Verify your identity Share your identity Manage your identity (names, pronouns, etc.) Manage your names at the UW Legal name(s) Use Identity.UW to view your current “official” (legal) name. If you have more than one relationship with the UW, your current employee legal name takes precedence over your student legal name, followed by other affiliations. Your legal name is obtained by the UW for identification purposes as you create relationships with the UW: from students through the application and admissions processes into UW student information systems, from employees through the job application and hire processes into Workday, etc. Preferred name Use Identity.UW to self-identify the name you use on an everyday basis at the UW. Your preferred name is used in contexts that don’t require a legal name, including the UW Directory and your Husky Card. Learn more Preferred name improvements were announced in 2016 in alignment with preferred name guidelines. Students can refer to the Office of the University Registrar pages on preferred names and legal name change policy; employees can refer to managing your personal and work information in Workday, legal name change in Workday, and transgender resources for UW employees. Manage your pronouns at the UW Identity.UW Set your pronouns in Identity.UW to share the pronouns you go by on an everyday basis at the UW. To learn more about uses by faculty, instructors, and advisers, refer to Pronouns frequently asked questions from the Office of the University Registrar. Zoom While the UW works on a more integrated approach to pronouns in Zoom, meeting hosts can allow participants to rename themselves as a way to enable pronouns by changing their Zoom display name. Other Some colleges, schools, and departments enable their members to indicate pronouns for use in their local systems and contexts of use. Verify your identity Use IDs and other credentials to verify your identity Identity verification enables you to connect to and access services. Photo ID The UW uses various forms of government issued photo ID (e.g. driver’s license, ID card, passport) to verify your identity. For example, you might use your photo ID at the Husky Card Office as identification to obtain your Husky Card, and employees present photo ID to complete Form I-9 requirements. Husky Card Husky Card is the official identification card for members of the UW community. It’s used for identity verification and with card readers to enable access to some services and buildings. UW NetID UW NetID is online identification for members of the UW community. The UW uses your UW NetID credentials (identifier, password, 2FA device) to verify your identity for single sign-on (SSO) on the web, as well as eduroam, Hyak, lab computers, and much, much more. Digital wallet In the future, you might share verifiable credentials from a digital wallet that you control in order to provide proof of identity. Explore use of digital identity wallets. Share your identity Use identifiers issued by the UW UW NetID UW NetID is an everyday identifier used for access to IT services. This identifier is also the basis for other unique identifiers, such as your everyday UW email address, UW Google ID, UW Microsoft ID, and eduPerson identifiers. Example: alice UW Student ID number A student ID number is issued to students for identification purposes through the Enrollment Confirmation System. Example: 1234567 UW Employee ID number An employee identification (EID) number is issued to employees for identification purposes through Workday. Example: 123456789 UW email address Your everyday email address at the UW is based on your UW NetID. It is a globally unique identifier used for Internet email. Example: alice@uw.edu UW Google ID Your UW Google ID is issued by the UW to eligible members; it’s based on your UW NetID and is the same identifier as your UW email address. It enables SSO and sharing in the Google cloud, including UW Google. Example: alice@uw.edu UW Microsoft ID Your UW Microsoft ID is issued by the UW to eligible members; it’s based on your UW NetID and is the same identifier as your UW email address. It enables SSO and sharing in the Microsoft cloud, including UW Office 365. Example: alice@uw.edu UW eduPerson ID Your eduPersonPrincipalName is based on your UW NetID. It is a globally unique identifier designed for trusted exchange of identity information in the research and education community. UW researchers and scholars are often identified by their eduPersonPrincipalName when they sign in to services such as nature.com, American Chemical Society, ScienceDirect, and others that rely on infrastructure like InCommon, eduGAIN, CILogon, SeamlessAccess, and REFEDS Research & Scholarship entity category. Example: alice@washington.edu Other IDs Other identifiers issued by the UW include Central ID (UW Medicine) and Registry ID (UW Information Technology). Use identifiers issued by others Personal email address Email addresses (not issued by the UW) are used by the UW for identification purposes, as well as email notifications and other communications. For example, you can use an email address for self-service account recovery, members can use an email address for UW Alerts, and students can use an email address for Notify.UW course notifications. Example: alice@gmail.com Personal phone number Phone numbers (not managed by the UW) are used by the UW for identification purposes, text messaging, and other communications. Phone numbers are globally unique within telephone networks. Example uses include text messaging to connect with and support students, orient students and families, answer questions, and build relationships with donors. Other examples include the same notifications as email, for self-service account recovery, UW Alerts, and Notify.UW course notifications. Example: (206) 555-1212 Social IDs Social identities such as Facebook, Google, and Apple IDs provide sign-in and external IDs for access to some UW services. For example, prospective students can sign in with Facebook and Google IDs to access the MyPlan academic planner. Example: 123456789123456789123 (Google) ORCID ID ORCID ID is a persistent identifier used to connect researchers with their work. Learn more about uses of ORCID IDs from Research Data Services and UW Research. Example: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1825-0097 Last reviewed July 6, 2021 See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Connecting in UW Housing Network Cabling (Ethernet) Husky OnNet Network Portal UW Network Port Blocking Network Addresses at the UW Managed Firewall Service UW Communications Infrastructure Disabled Network Service Email and calendaring Email resources and information Phones ADA Compliant Equipment Affiliated Organizations Campus Phones Conferencing – audio/video Customer Purchased Equipment Dialing Procedures Directory Listings Extension Connect Interactive Voice Response (IVR) [RETIRED] Policies and Procedures Technology Services and Equipment Bill Viewer Telecommuter VoIP Text Messaging UW Telephone Service Basics Voicemail System Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Email and Calendaring Migrate Email and Data Provision Access to UW-IT Services Productivity Platforms Stats Productivity Platforms Recharge Services Deprecated Services Services Index Services Sitemap Television HuskyTV Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting UW Sites UW Event Calendar Trumba Fall 2021 Q&A Use Trumba’s T2 Editor Request a New Calendar Authorize Calendar Editors Make Your Calendar’s Web Site Accessible Display Your Calendar Online Trumba Videos Add and edit events Create Repeating, Recurring, and Multi-Day Events Import & Export Calendar Events Set up Event Registration Share Events on Other Calendars Delete a Calendar Publicize departmental events for students via MyUW Add an event to your personal calendar Subscribe an Academic Calendar Feed to Your Personal Calendar Trumba Updates UW Event Calendar Data Retention Policy UW Event Calendar Service Metrics Collaborating for Accessibility Manage your identity Set your pronouns in Identity.UW Learn more about pronoun indicators Integrate pronouns from Identity.UW UW announces preferred names in 2016 Preferred name guideline Explore use of digital identity wallets My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA