Skip to main content Technology for: Students Faculty Staff Visitors About IT Connect Sitemap Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Using Wi-Fi at the UW Encrypted Wi-Fi with Eduroam Connect in UW Housing Connect remotely with Husky OnNet Productivity Platforms UW Google UW Office 365 Web publishing Choosing a web hosting option UW Shared Web Hosting Email and calendaring Protecting your email Email resources and information Phones & communication tools Campus Phones UW Zoom Video Conferencing Telecommuter VoIP Extension Connect Conferencing – Audio/Video Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Archived: Microsoft Software Anti-Virus Software SAS Statistical Packages Managed Workstation Service My Workstation Technical Information Service Information Online storage U Drive: Central File Storage Google Drive OneDrive for Business Storage Quotas Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Computer Vet Clearing your browser’s cache Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Canvas Learning Management System Poll Everywhere Scout™ Notify.UW Panopto Lecture Capture JupyterHub for Teaching MyPlan Academic Planner Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Active Learning Classrooms Odegaard Learning Commons Odegaard Collaboration Pods Odegaard Library Sound Studio Technology Training Learning Technologies Workshops and Office Hours Accessible IT Research Research Computing GPUs for Machine Learning Cloud computing for research Does your research belong in the cloud? Early success stories Cloud computing basics Getting started Cloud training High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Research Computing Services Hyak Next Generation Supercomputer Using Your Data Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Technology for working remotely Increasing your home internet speed Administrative systems Keynes eSignatures UW Connect Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing IT Investment Planning & Approval IT Project Oversight IT Vendor Risk Management Emergency preparedness Prepare for business disruptions Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs About UW NetIDs Sign in with UW NetID Two-factor authentication (2FA) Set up a smartphone or tablet Set up a mobile phone or landline How to sign in with 2FA Hardware tokens Frequently Asked Questions Password Manager Identity and access management Single sign-on with UW NetID Securing your computer Computer management Email at the UW is scanned for viruses Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) IT Connect Your connection to information technology at the UW Search IT Connect: Menu Connect & Communicate Connecting to UW networks Productivity Platforms Web publishing Email and calendaring Phones & communication tools Television UW Event Calendar Software & Hardware Acquiring software and hardware Software for the UW (UWare) Managed Workstation Service Online storage Microsoft Infrastructure Computer care and repair Teaching & Learning Teaching and Learning Tools Teaching and Learning Research Prepare for when classes can’t meet Technology Spaces Technology Training Accessible IT Research Research Computing Cloud computing for research High Speed Research Network IT Consulting High Performance Computing Compute Cluster for Research (Hyak) Data Transfer Node File System for Research (Lolo) Work Working Remotely Administrative systems Resources for technical staff UX Design Resources Enterprise Data Services IT Sourcing Emergency preparedness Enterprise Architecture UW-IT Billing UW-IT Facilities Design Guide Appropriate use Security Create and use UW NetIDs Two-factor authentication (2FA) Password Manager Identity and access management Securing your computer Security and Privacy Policies Network security for printers UW Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Home IT Connect Work Appropriate use Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Home Appropriate use Public Records Act Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Usage Policies and Guidelines for Cloud Services Use of Public Resources for Campaigning UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information Need Help? Contact UW-IT About UW-IT Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Policies and Procedures The University of Washington is committed to ensuring that copyrighted works are respected and used appropriately by UW faculty, students, staff and visitors. Our policies require those using our computers or networks to respect U.S. and international copyright laws and failure to do so may result in disciplinary action or termination of access. This document serves as the “written plan” required of the University under the copyright-related regulations associated with the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008. Combating Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material The University addresses misuse of its networks for unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material through a variety of educational, technical, and disciplinary means. These include: Mailings, web sites, and other mechanisms explaining the difference between appropriate and inappropriate use of copyrighted materials and the possible penalties of misuse. Network management technologies and policies that may constrain the use of the network for purposes not directly related to the University’s mission. Standardized, consistent handling of copyright violation notices, including validation of details, warnings to offenders, and disciplinary action when warnings prove ineffective. The University periodically reminds its network users through email, web sites, and other means that: If an individual chooses to host or exchange files unlawfully, that individual will be personally responsible for any consequences from that activity. Ignorance of the law is not a useful defense. The University strongly recommends that individuals using University of Washington networks and computers learn the rules and the laws before sharing files on line. Educational institutions are not exempt from the laws covering copyrights. Most software, images, music, and files available for use on computers at the University of Washington are protected by federal copyright laws. In addition, software, images, music, and files normally are protected by a license agreement between the purchaser and the software seller. It is University of Washington policy to respect federal copyright and license protections. Unauthorized use of software, images, music, or files is regarded as a serious matter and any such use is without the consent of the University of Washington. If abuse of computer software, images, music, or files occurs, those responsible for such abuse will be held accountable. The University’s Internet connections provide access to many legal alternatives for downloading or otherwise acquiring copyrighted material, including those listed UW Library’s Free and Legal Media for Downloading and Streaming site. Handling of Potential Violations When the University receives formal notification that a user of its network appears to be violating copyright, UW Technology Validates that the complaint has been sent to the proper UW address. Catalogs the complaint with a UW ticket number. Identifies the machine identifier (“MAC address”) associated with the network address at the time noted in the complaint. Uses logs to identify the owner of the device, if possible. Sends the owner instructions requesting that offending material be removed from the network, and requiring a response from the owner. Internet access is restricted if the alleged offender fails to respond to the notice within 72 hours or if the machine owner has received a previous complaint. University students receiving second complaints must meet with a University official before Internet access is restored. The target response time for copyright complaints is 10 working days or less. Periodically Reviewing Effectiveness The University will review the effectiveness of this plan on an annual basis during the summer quarter. The primary measure used to assess effectiveness at deterring unauthorized sharing of copyrighted material will be the number of repeat offenders, measured as a percentage of the number of overall complaints received. Legal Alternatives There are many legal alternatives for obtaining music and video on the Internet, and that list is growing constantly. The UW Libraries maintains a list of interesting sources for video and music at Free and Legal Media for Downloading and Streaming Additional Information UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information Appropriate Use of UW Resources See a problem on this page? Let us know. Home Appropriate use Public Records Act Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Material on the UW Network Usage Policies and Guidelines for Cloud Services Use of Public Resources for Campaigning UW DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) Information My Requests Service Status Integrated Service Center IT Tools for You A-Z Index Sitemap Help help@uw.edu 206-221-5000 In Person: UW Tower, O Building, M-F 8-5 Twitter YouTube Accessibility Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA