Skip to main content OIT Service Center Submit a request Log in New to OIT Service Center? Register for an account Stay Logged In? Need a password reminder? Help Center Knowledgebase Accounts and Passwords Brown Account Activate Your Brown Account Activate Your Brown Account - Knowledgebase / Accounts and Passwords / Brown Account - OIT Service Center Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase × Print Download PDF × Copy to Clipboard Activate Your Brown Account Authors list cbchristine brown During the activation process, you will set up an account to access Brown services (your Brown username and password). In addition, if you are eligible for Brown email, you'll be prompted to activate your email and set up a separate password to access Brown Google services including Gmail (email) and Google Drive. Please note: this article only applies to faculty, staff, students, and sponsored IDs. If you are a Brown alum, click here for more information. Alumni do not need Brown ID numbers to activate their accounts. To activate: Locate your Brown ID number. Instructions available here. Go to myaccount.brown.edu/activate Follow the instructions on the screen to continue through the activation process. After following the steps, you'll see a screen with your Brown username and your Brown email address (if you are eligible for email). You will need this information! Make a note of it in a secure location. Make sure your mobile number and/or personal email is on file so you can reset your password should you forget it. Instructions available here. After activating, you will log into most Brown resources with your Brown username and password. The exceptions are services provided by Google, such as email and Google Drive. You log into these with your email address and the separate password you chose for Google during activation. If you did not activate an email address during your initial activation (which is usually the case for staff and Brown applicants), you'll need to activate your Brown email account once you are eligible for a Brown email address. This can take at least 48 hours after your enrollment decision is verified by your admissions office. More information About Your Brown Usernames Helpful Unhelpful 34 of 85 people found this page helpful Send us a note about this article Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase Related Content About Your Brown Usernames Enter a Mobile Number for Emergency Notifications and Password Resets Find Your Brown ID Number Activate Your Brown Email Account after Activating Your Brown Username Brown Alumni Accounts Author Stephanie Obodda Contact the OIT Service Center Phone: 401-863-4357 Email: help@brown.edu Location: Page Robinson Hall - 69 Brown St., Room 510 See our availability https://it.brown.edu/get-help Walk-ins Welcome! Appointments recommended. For reserved service for a technical consult or a loaner check-out, you can schedule an appointment here. Reporting an IT Outage? Report an Outage Service Status & Alerts Phishing Warnings Powered by