Skip to main content OIT Service Center Submit a request Log in New to OIT Service Center? Register for an account Stay Logged In? Need a password reminder? Help Center Knowledgebase Accounts and Passwords Brown Account Reset Your Brown Password Reset Your Brown Password - Knowledgebase / Accounts and Passwords / Brown Account - OIT Service Center Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase × Print Download PDF × Copy to Clipboard Reset Your Brown Password Authors list CGChristopher Grossi This article will help you reset or change the password associated with your Brown username. If you remember your Brown password Visit MyAccount and click “Change Password for Brown Username” on the left menu. If you’ve forgotten your Brown password If you have your mobile number or personal email registered with Brown, you can reset your own password using the Forgot Password page, found on MyAccount and linked at the bottom of most Brown login windows. Follow these steps: (For a video tutorial, see the video later on this page.) Select your affiliation with Brown. (This article is for current Brown faculty, staff, and students — see here for alumni.) Enter your username and Brown ID number, and click Next. You should receive a text message with a passkey and a link. Either click the link to continue on your phone, or continue using the page you had open before. Enter your username and the passkey, and click Next. Choose a new password and enter it twice. Brown’s password requirements Advice for creating a strong password If you don't have a mobile number or personal email on file, you can call the IT Service Center during their business hours for assistance resetting the password. As long as they are able to verify your identity over the phone, they can give you a passkey which can be used within the next 24 hours to reset your password. Helpful Unhelpful 20 of 39 people found this page helpful Send us a note about this article Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase Related Content Enter a Mobile Number for Emergency Notifications and Password Resets Author Stephanie Obodda Contact the OIT Service Center Phone: 401-863-4357 Email: help@brown.edu Location: Page Robinson Hall - 69 Brown St., Room 510 See our availability https://it.brown.edu/get-help Walk-ins Welcome! Appointments recommended. For reserved service for a technical consult or a loaner check-out, you can schedule an appointment here. Reporting an IT Outage? Report an Outage Service Status & Alerts Phishing Warnings Powered by