Skip to main content OIT Service Center Submit a request Log in New to OIT Service Center? Register for an account Stay Logged In? Need a password reminder? Help Center Knowledgebase Accounts and Passwords Leaving Brown Learn about Lifetime Brown Email for Alumni Learn about Lifetime Brown Email for Alumni - Knowledgebase / Accounts and Passwords / Leaving Brown - OIT Service Center Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase × Print Download PDF × Copy to Clipboard Learn about Lifetime Brown Email for Alumni Authors list Accessing your @alumni.brown.edu account Once your @brown account has been migrated to the alumni domain, log into Gmail with your @alumni.brown.edu address as your username and the same password you used for your @brown account. About Your Alumni Email All new Brown grads receive @alumni.brown.edu email addresses. For most new grads, full account migration takes place 8-10 days after your final semester. However, if you are continuing at Brown in a new capacity, your account set-up will be different. Which category best describes you? Graduating and not continuing in another role at Brown Continuing at Brown as a graduate or medical student Continuing at Brown as a staff or faculty member Alpert Medical School: MD grads, residency alumni Graduating and not continuing in another role at Brown In mid-June—or, for December completers, early January—your Brown account is renamed to an alumni.brown.edu address (e.g., josiah_carberry@brown.edu would be renamed josiah_carberry@alumni.brown.edu). You use this new alumni address to log in with the same password you used in the past. Your Google account continues to include your existing email messages, email contacts, calendar, documents, and sites. However some non-core services, such as YouTube and ePortfolios, may not transfer. Mail sent to your original brown.edu address continues to appear in your mailbox for 1 year only. After that time, your brown.edu address no longer works and messages sent to that address bounce. Because messages to your brown.edu account continue to reach you for only a limited time, start giving the alumni.brown.edu address to your contacts as soon as it’s active, and change your address in any online accounts that you may have set up using your brown.edu address. Continuing at Brown as a graduate or medical student If you are accepted and committed to a Brown medical or graduate degree program by the end of your final semester, you retain your @brown.edu account and all the data within. Your alumni account will be created when you complete the advanced degree program. Continuing at Brown as a staff or faculty member Because you will be using your @brown.edu account as a faculty or staff member, a new, empty @alumni.brown.edu account gets created for you. To access your alumni account, log in to MyAccount and follow the instructions to reset your lifetime email password. You may want to transfer personal email, contacts, and documents to your alumni account. (Bear in mind that when regular staff terminate their Brown employment, their @brown.edu accounts are immediately suspended. Paid faculty and hospital-based medical faculty retain their @brown.edu accounts for 180 days after their separation date.) To move selected emails from your account to another email account, you can set up an email client (such as Thunderbird) to connect to both accounts and then drag and drop emails from one account into the other. See instructions: transfer email, transfer contacts, transfer documents. Alpert Medical School: MD grads, residency alumni Though the exact form your @alumni.brown.edu account takes is governed by the nature of your continuing relationship with Brown, as described above, from June onward, you are able to receive mail at both @alumni.brown.edu and @med.brown.edu. If you already have an @alumni.brown.edu account, the @med.brown.edu alias gets added to that account. Need help? Contact the IT Service Center - Alumni Help Desk at 401-863-9662 or email alumni_help@brown.edu. Their hour are available at https://ithelp.brown.edu Last updated: 12/02/20 Helpful Unhelpful 56 of 99 people found this page helpful Send us a note about this article Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase Related Content Students: Changes to Your Access After Degree Completion Email to Graduating Students 2018 Author Stephanie Obodda Contact the OIT Service Center Phone: 401-863-4357 Email: help@brown.edu Location: Page Robinson Hall - 69 Brown St., Room 510 See our availability https://it.brown.edu/get-help Walk-ins Welcome! Appointments recommended. For reserved service for a technical consult or a loaner check-out, you can schedule an appointment here. Reporting an IT Outage? Report an Outage Service Status & Alerts Phishing Warnings Powered by