Skip to main content OIT Service Center Submit a request Log in New to OIT Service Center? Register for an account Stay Logged In? Need a password reminder? Help Center Knowledgebase Accounts and Passwords Two-Step Verification Use Two-Step Verification with a Token Use Two-Step Verification with a Token - Knowledgebase / Accounts and Passwords / Two-Step Verification - OIT Service Center Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase × Print Download PDF × Copy to Clipboard Use Two-Step Verification with a Token Authors list Don't have a smartphone? Travel extensively? You might want to use Brown's Two-Step Verification with a token. What is a Token? A "token" is a keychain-sized device. If you push the button, it displays a number for you to type into the Two-Step Verification prompt. Every time you press the button, a different number is displayed. Once you use the displayed number to verify, it cannot be reused. This is an offline device - no cell or data connection is required. How to Get a Token You can visit Brown's IT Service Center to pick up a token. They will set it up and add it to your account. How to Use a Token To use a token: After entering your username and password on a Brown single-sign-on page, you'll see the Duo prompt. Choose Token as your way to verify Click Enter a Passcode Press the button on your token. A number will display. Enter the number you see into the passcode area, and click Log In. Tip: check the "Remember me for 30 Days" to avoid being prompted for 30 days on your computer's browser. Helpful Unhelpful 38 of 45 people found this page helpful Send us a note about this article Subscribe This Article Category Knowledgebase Related Content Use Two-Step Verification When Traveling Author Stephanie Obodda Contact the OIT Service Center Phone: 401-863-4357 Email: help@brown.edu Location: Page Robinson Hall - 69 Brown St., Room 510 See our availability https://it.brown.edu/get-help Walk-ins Welcome! Appointments recommended. For reserved service for a technical consult or a loaner check-out, you can schedule an appointment here. Reporting an IT Outage? Report an Outage Service Status & Alerts Phishing Warnings Powered by