retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Search Search About Members ITLC By-Laws 2019-2021 ITLC Report FAQ & Comments Message From Our Executive Sponsors Committees Continuous Improvement Identity and Access Management Security Central Services Review Networking Endpoint Management IT Recruitment and Talent Management Working Groups Storage Strategy Working Group Completed Working Groups ITLC Minutes Share Your Ideas IT Resources and Community Engagement To attend or suggest a topic for an upcoming ITLC meeting, email: > ITLC-Agenda-Committee@austin.utexas.edu > For IT-related resources or the latest on the UT COVID-19 response, visit: > IT Resources > > Protect Texas Together > Breadcrumb Home COVID-19 IT Resources Page COVID-19 IT Resources Page University COVID-19 Pages Official University COVID-19 Site The health, safety and well-being of the university community is paramount. University officials and medical experts are continuously monitoring and following recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), World Health Organization (WHO), Austin Public Health (APH) and other official sources. Instructional Continuity - Faculty Innovation Center In response to the changing COVID-19 situation, the University is preparing technology resources so faculty members have the ability to transition their courses online. Below is a guide for instructors to use in planning this move. Recommended tools are supported campus-wide by the Faculty Innovation Center and Liberal Arts Instructional Technology Services. Your college or department staff may support other tools available for you to use. Please move through this guide step-by-step. Pay special attention to the sections that address updating your syllabus and submitting a teaching plan. This guide will be regularly and continually updated. Please check back daily for content and resource updates. UT Students - One Stop UT's One Stop for students COVID-19 page. Student Emergency Fund application Students who need computer equipment or reliable internet access for online classes should complete the Student Emergency Fund application, and share specific information about their needs. Review Technology Support for Remote Learning (pdf) for more information and access to IT support. Sample Canvas Course Canvas course introducing many new online instruction tools. Technology Support for Remote Learning Student guide for Remote Learning Guidance for Working From Home Telework and Flexible Work Tools There are a variety of tools available that enable you to work while not physically on campus. You will find resources on this page that can be used to work remotely during scheduled telecommuting, inclement weather closures, delayed openings, or other emergencies. Security Guidance for Working Remotely Whether it's a normal part of your job or as an alternative if access to campus is temporarily restricted, the ability to work remotely (also known as telecommuting or teleworking) can help keep the University's operations running from afar. Though potentially of great benefit to your department's operations, it's essential that all remote work be performed in a secure computing environment. Office 365 Guide Office 365 is a suite of cloud-based services and applications that can be accessed from anywhere or downloaded on multiple devices. It’s way more than Microsoft Office – Office 365 is made of productivity tools dedicated to making communicating, collaborating, and sharing of ideas easier with classmates and colleagues. UT Telephones through MS Teams Basic and Business phone subscribers may now activate MS Teams Phone Calling Service to receive and place calls using their UT phone number. Remote Desktop Gateway The Remote Desktop Gateway (RDG) allows compatible clients to securely access Windows computers on campus using the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) remotely without connecting to the UT Virtual Private Network (VPN). The RDG does require two-factor authentication with Duo. IT Support Health and Safety Links Environmental Cleaning and Disinfection Recommendations - CDC There is much to learn about the novel coronavirus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Based on what is currently known about the virus, spread from person-to-person happens most frequently among close contacts (within about 6 feet). This type of transmission occurs via respiratory droplets. Transmission of novel coronavirus to persons from surfaces contaminated with the virus has not been documented. Transmission of coronavirus in general occurs much more commonly through respiratory droplets than through fomites. Current evidence suggests that novel coronavirus may remain viable for hours to days on surfaces made from a variety of materials. Cleaning of visibly dirty surfaces followed by disinfection is a best practice measure for prevention of COVID-19 and other viral respiratory illnesses in community settings. Apple Products Cleaning Guide Apple products are made with a variety of materials, and each material might have specific cleaning requirements. To get started, here are some tips that apply to all products: Use only a soft, lint-free cloth. Avoid abrasive cloths, towels, paper towels, or similar items. Avoid excessive wiping, which might cause damage. Unplug all external power sources, devices, and cables. Keep liquids away from the product, unless otherwise noted for specific products. Don't get moisture into any openings. Don't use aerosol sprays, bleaches, or abrasives. Don't spray cleaners directly onto the item. Zoom Zoom Webinar Request Request a Zoom Webinar room. Zoom Privacy and Security Guidance on Zoom Privacy and security from the Information Security Office. City of Austin Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Page Austin Public Health is closely monitoring the rapidly evolving situation in coordination with the Texas Department of State Health Services, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and local and regional public health and healthcare agencies. EDUCAUSE Corporate Resources for COVID-19 Many higher education corporate partners are responding to the needs of college campuses as they deal with the Coronavirus 19. Below is a link to a list of corporations and service providers who are offering free, discounted, or expanded services to higher education institutions transitioning to remote work and online learning during the COVID-19 outbreak. The list is sorted in three tabs including technology, OER, and access service offerings. Teaching and Instruction Tutorials Train the Trainer LAITS Train the Trainer on Zoom & Canvas 03/12/2020 (Microsoft Stream) LAITS Train the Trainer on Zoom & Canvas 03/12/2020 (MediaSite) Zoom Install and Configure Zoom Learn Zoom Basics Hold Office Hours With Zoom Deliver a Live Lecture With Zoom Record a Lecture With Zoom Office Hours and Advising Panopto - Video/Lecture Capture & Repository Using Panopto to teach online Panopto System Requirements Install Panopto (Mac) Install Panopto (Windows) How to Record a Video in Panopto Panopto - Video/Lecture Capture & Repository (Continued) How to add auto-captioning in Panopto How to edit captions in Panopto How to add a quiz to your Panopto recording Canvas - Web Conferencing Put Canvas on your mobile device Communicate to your class Hold a class discussion Hold a real-time chat with your class Share files with students Canvas - Web Conferencing (Continued) Post your updated syllabus Create Online Assignments Create Exams and Quizzes in Canvas Lectures Online Record your lecture with Lectures Online Microsoft PowerPoint Add audio narration to your PowerPoint presentation UT Instapoll Using UT Instapoll in your classes Campus' Recommended IT Tools for Online Instruction Canvas University Canvas instance Canvas Canvas Training Center A public Canvas course with faculty and student tutorials. Canvas Training Campus ZOOM Resource The campus supported video tool is Zoom. utexas.zoom.us Panopto Panopto is a video platform teachers can use to create course materials. Teachers can create asynchronous materials like video recording, lecturing with PowerPoint, and automatically captioned videos. Panopto also offers live streaming for synchronous lecture capture and one-way audio and video delivery to students. Interaction here can occur via Canvas Chat. Panopto Canvas Integration Guide FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022