All NYU Law About NYU Law About the Law School Global Opportunities Law & Business Public Service Academics & Courses Areas of Study Courses More Academics Admissions JD Admissions LLM/JSD Admissions Faculty & Scholarship Current Students Alumni & Giving Centers & Institutes Executive Education Departments & Programs Directories Law Library Events Calendar News & Press Faculty Jeanne Fromer Overview Biography Courses Publications Presentations and Lectures Curriculum Vitae High-Resolution Portrait SSRN Menu Faculty and Topics Entire Site Faculty Jeanne Fromer Professor of Law jeanne.fromer@nyu.edu Vanderbilt Hall 310 C • 212.998.6129 Assistant: Henrieke Dekker henrieke.dekker@nyu.edu 212.998.6617 Assistant: Henrieke Dekker henrieke.dekker@nyu.edu 212.998.6617 AREAS OF RESEARCH Copyright Law, Intellectual Property Law, Patent Law, Trade Secret Law, Trademark Law Professor Jeanne Fromer specializes in intellectual property, including copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, and design protection laws. She is a faculty co-director of the Engelberg Center on Innovation Law & Policy. In 2011, Fromer was awarded the American Law Institute’s inaugural Young Scholars Medal for her scholarship in intellectual property. She is the co-author, with Chris Sprigman, of a free copyright textbook, Copyright Law: Cases and Materials, which is in use at over 55 law schools around the world. Before coming to NYU, Fromer served as a law clerk to Justice David H. Souter of the US Supreme Court and to Judge Robert D. Sack of the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. She also worked at Hale and Dorr (now WilmerHale) in the area of intellectual property. Fromer received her JD magna cum laude from Harvard Law School, serving as articles and commentaries editor of the Harvard Law Review and as editor of the Harvard Journal of Law and Technology. Fromer earned her BA summa cum laude in computer science from Barnard College, Columbia University. She received her SM in electrical engineering and computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for research work in artificial intelligence and computational linguistics and worked at AT&T (Bell) Laboratories in those same areas. Fromer was a visiting professor at Harvard Law School and Stanford Law School, and she also previously taught at Fordham Law School. Show Full Biography Featured Work Asserting Intellectual Property Rights In the Houston Law Review, Jeanne Fromer asks “Should The Law Care Why Intellectual Property Rights Have Been Asserted?” Her answer is yes, and she urges courts to consider weighing the motivations of assertions before granting relief. Courses Advanced Copyright Advanced Copyright will examine a number of the most recent issues and controversies in copyright law. These issues may include recent infringement litigation related to copying of music, the copyright status of appropriation art, renewed attention to copyright protection for software, issues related to streaming music, the use of copyrighted material by educational institutions, the viability of fan films and fan fiction, and a restructuring of the Copyright Office. Students must have completed a course in Copyright Law or the Survey of Intellectual Property. Students will be evaluated based a final paper as well as in-class participation. Copyright Law This course will offer a comprehensive survey of U.S. copyright law and theory, with attention as well to international copyright law. It will examine the substantive requirements that literary, musical, pictorial and other works of authorship must meet to qualify for copyright protection, the procedures for obtaining protection, the scope and duration of protection, fair use, and remedies for infringement. The course will also focus on copyright’s role in the digital age. Survey of Intellectual Property This is a substantive course on intellectual property law. The course will focus on the American systems of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secrecy, and state intellectual-property rights, though international and comparative issues will be considered as well. It will examine doctrine, theory, and policy. Emphasis will be given to intellectual property’s role in the digital age. There is no prerequisite for the course. Nor is any scientific or technical background necessary to take this course. Students who have already taken patent, copyright, or trademark law may wish to consult with the instructor as to whether the survey course is the most appropriate option. Trade Secret Law This course will offer a comprehensive study of U.S. trade secret law. This body of law protects what is often a company’s most valuable asset: its confidential and proprietary business information, which can range from technological processes to formulas to customer lists. The course will cover: The subject matter that is eligible to be a “trade secret” The requirements of secrecy, economic value, and reasonable efforts being made to maintain secrecy Misappropriation of trade secrets via improper means or via breach of a duty of confidentiality Particular issues that arise with regard to trade secrets in the employment context, such as confidentiality and non-competition agreements and what happens when a former employee goes to work for a competitor Litigation tactics and defenses Remedies for trade secret misappropriation Federal and state protection of trade secrets, and civil and criminal laws protecting trade secrets Management of trade secrets Takings of trade secrets by state action Policy considerations in permitting socially important information to be protected as secret The course will touch on comparisons between trade secret law and other forms of intellectual property protection. Most importantly, trade secrecy often serves as an alternative means of protecting subject matter covered by patent law. There are therefore important connections between trade secret law and patent law, including issues of preemption and upsides and downsides to each form of protection. Trade secret law has roots in property, contract, tort, and unfair-competition law, and the course will explore the connections to each body of law. VIEW ALL Publications "Against Secondary Meaning," 98 Notre Dame Law Review (forthcoming) "Memes on Memes and the New Creativity," 97 NYU Law Review 453 (2022) (with Amy Adler) Copyright Law: Cases and Materials (v3.0) (free textbook, 2021) (with Christopher Jon Sprigman) "Machines as the New Oompa-Loompas: Trade Secrecy, the Cloud, Machine Learning, and Automation," 94 NYU Law Review 706 (2019) "Are We Running Out of Trademarks? An Empirical Study of Trademark Depletion and Congestion," 131 Harvard Law Review 945 (2018) (with Barton Beebe) VIEW ALL Education JD, Harvard Law School, magna cum laude, 2002 SM (Electrical Engineering and Computer Science), Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1998 BA (Computer Science), Barnard College, Columbia University, summa cum laude, 1996 Honors and Activities Member, NYU Innovation Council, 2020-present Member, Academic Advisory Board, U.S. Supreme Court Fellows Program, 2017-18 Adviser, Restatement of the Law, Copyright, American Law Institute, 2015-present Chair, AALS Section on Intellectual Property, 2013 Paper selected, Stanford/Yale Junior Faculty Forum, 2011 Young Scholars Medal, American Law Institute, 2011 Paper selected, Stanford/Yale Junior Faculty Forum, 2009 Ideas from NYU Law The Law of Memes Overview Biography Courses Publications Presentations and Lectures Curriculum Vitae High-Resolution Portrait SSRN In the Media Rolling Stone "Why Is It So Hard for Black Creators to Get Their Due?" Fortune "China is flooding the U.S. with trademark applications and no one is sure why" Law360 "6 Things To Know About High Court's Google-Oracle Ruling" VIEW ALL Tweets by @JeanneFromer Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Accessibility Directories Offices and Departments Site Map Visitor Information NYU School of Law © 2022 New York University School of Law. 40 Washington Sq. South, New York, NY 10012. Tel. 212.998.6100