Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Information Technology Services Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Service Catalog Training Information Security & Privacy FSU Service Center ITS Service Desk FAQs About ITS Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Information Technology Services Toggle navigation Home Service Catalog Training Information Security & Privacy FSU Service Center ITS Service Desk FAQs About ITS Home Service Catalog Communication and Collaboration Directory Employee Online Directory Employee Online Directory The Florida State University employee online directory makes connecting with faculty and staff at FSU easy. Use the online directory to quickly find university personnel, save contacts to your device and share results via email. Simply enter an employee's name, title or department to browse their contact information. The FSU employee online directory makes it easy to connect with and find the people you need. Mobile friendly | responsive design allows for easy access from any mobile device Save contacts | save the contact information of colleagues you communicate with on a regular basis Share via email | share contact information of any FSU employee via email directly from the directory Typeahead search | filters search results and presents possible matches as you type Preferred name sorting | sorted by an employee’s preferred name, allowing you to easily search for and find colleagues who go by a nickname or alias Additional Information Access IVR - To access the Interactive Voice Response system, you may dial "0" from a 644 or 645 campus telephone line or (850) 644-2525. Employee - Visit the online Faculty and Staff Directory Cost There is no charge for this service Support Please refer to the "Search for Help" button in the top right corner of this page to find any relevant FAQs for this offering. Directory Changes To make changes to office location, mail code, title/role or department, please contact your departmental HR representative. To request removal of personal information from the FSU Online Directory, submit a support request. For information on how to update your preferred name, fill out and submit the HR Preferred Name Change Request form. You can get a snapshot of your contact details, such as phone numbers and email addresses, in your myFSU My Profile. You can make changes to those details there as well as directly in myFSU HR. Use the navigation along the left for additional options. Confirm that your Business Phone is correct. Edit if necessary. It may take some time for these changes to be reflected in the FSU Directory. See the table below for more information. Information Type Faculty and Staff Directory FSU Email System Phone Number (Business) 24 hours 48 hours Email Address (Business) 24 hours 48 hours Employee Preferred Name 24 hours 2-5 business days Sign In Request this Service Report a Problem Search for Help Need Help? Click the icons to contact the ITS Service Desk via phone, chat or webform. Service Alerts Check the ITS Service Status page for the latest info on outages and maintenance. ITS Service Status Related Services Departmental Online Directory Active Directory FSUID Account Management FSU Email Phone lines Available To Student Students Faculty Faculty Staff Staff Departments Departments × Request This Service Directory Changes To make changes to office location, mail code, title/role or department, please contact your departmental HR representative. To request removal of personal information from the FSU Online Directory, submit a support request. For information on how to update your preferred name, fill out and submit the HR Preferred Name Change Request form. You can get a snapshot of your contact details, such as phone numbers and email addresses, in your myFSU My Profile. You can make changes to those details there as well as directly in myFSU HR. Use the navigation along the left for additional options. Confirm that your Business Phone is correct. Edit if necessary. It may take some time for these changes to be reflected in the FSU Directory. See the table below for more information. Information Type Faculty and Staff Directory FSU Email System Phone Number (Business) 24 hours 48 hours Email Address (Business) 24 hours 48 hours Employee Preferred Name 24 hours 2-5 business days Close Contact Us 850-644-HELP Chat Submit a support request Place an order (TSR) Request a repair (RN) M-F 8AM-6PM ITS Service Status Contact Us 850-644-HELP Live Chat Submit a support request Place an order (TSR) Request a repair (RN) M-F 8AM-6PM Quick Links Students Faculty Employees Remote Work Essentials Departments ITS Intranet Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media