retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Search Search Our Organization Campus Solutions Customer Support Services (CSS) Financial and Business Services Networking and Telecommunications Strategic Initiatives University Data Center Careers Advantages of working in ITS Facilities Contact Us Home Trice Humpert The Office of the Assistant Vice President (AVP) for Information Technology Services is part of the Financial and Administrative Services (FAS) portfolio and is responsible for the provision of the core information technology infrastructure and coordination of campus-wide information technology at The University of Texas at Austin. The AVP’s office works with the Information Technology Leadership Council (ITLC) and collaborates with IT service units across campus in support of our core mission to be more effective, efficient, and achieve operational excellence. Led by Trice Humpert, the Office of the Assistant Vice President for Information Technology Services: Has executive responsibility for the Information Technology Services (ITS) department. Shares executive responsibility for the Office of Telecommunication Services (OTS) with UT System. Partners with the Information Security Office (ISO) to assure the security of the university's information technology resources and the existence of a safe computing environment in which the university community can teach, learn, and conduct research. Works closely with the Provost, faculty, and university leadership regarding implementation of IT initiatives. Provides leadership and fosters collaboration among various IT leaders across campus. Get Help UT Service Desk We are here to help! The Service Desk provides IT support services related to EID, DUO, Office 365, email, Qualtrics, Box, and other central IT services. If you're not sure whom to ask for help, contact us! Call us: 512-475-9400 Email us: help@utexas.edu Submit a help request online Didn't find what you're looking for? Search IT@UT Vision To be a trusted partner and best value service provider for foundational IT services at UT Austin. Mission We support the university’s mission of education, research, and public service by providing centralized IT services in a strategic, connected, and transformative way. ITS enables UT to adapt, compete, innovate, and thrive well into the future and focus on mission-enabling endeavors. Information and Technology Principles 1. Maximize efficiencies and effectiveness by sustaining and evolving existing services and reducing redundant services. 2. Invest wisely and appropriately in university-wide transformative technology change. 3. Reduce risks by anticipating adverse challenges in our IT environment. 4. Provide value by delivering exceptional services, using data, analytics, and stakeholder engagement as our guide. People and Culture Principles 5. The university’s mission and FAS values guide everything we do. 6. We provide employees with opportunities to learn and grow. 7. We improve the community experience by engaging campus and each other. 8. We value employee well-being through inclusion and work-life balance. Powered by UT Drupal Kit Footer menu IT@UT Information Security Office ITS Staff Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022