Skip to Content Information Technology Services Open Close primary navigation Search Search Home Get HelpExpand Collapse section Create a Help Ticket Self-Help Pages Classroom Support ITS Service Center Password Management Info ForExpand Collapse section New Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni & Former Students ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Accounts and IDs Blackboard Computer Labs Data Warehouse Email LinkedIn Learning Listserv MakerSpace Office 365 Printing at SU Remote Access Research Computing Teaching and Learning System Alerts AboutExpand Collapse section Blog DepartmentsExpand Collapse section Office of the CIO Academic Applications and Service Centers Administrative Computing Services Core Infrastructure Services Enterprise Application Systems Enterprise Process Support Enterprise Technology Group Information Security Learning Environments and Media Production Networking Services Network Wiring Services Telecommunications ITS News Our Mission Policies Technology Leadership Council Contact ITS Phish Bowl Search Search Home About Departments In this Section Departments Office of the CIO Link The Office of the CIO supports the Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer (CIO), who develops and implements strategies to ensure that ITS is providing central technology support across both the academic and administrative operations of the University, and provides day-to-day leadership and administration of the Information Technology Services (ITS) department. Samuel J. Scozzafava, Jr. Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer 315.443.3814 sjscozza@syr.edu Academic Services Link Academic Services provides support, learning and classroom technology, public computer labs, media, and web technologies and services through Learning Environments and Media Production (LEMP), Academic Applications and Services Centers (AASC), and Online Learning Services. Jenny Gluck Associate CIO for Academic Services 315.443.5772 jsgluck@syr.edu Business Office Link The Business Office is responsible for ITS financial management, administration, and planning; software licensing and digital certificates; and ITS human resources and organizational development. Anna Kopp Director of Administration 315.443.6189 ajkopp@syr.edu Mindi Stoffel Assistant Director, Software Asset Manager 315.443.2716 mmstoffe@syr.edu Core Infrastructure Services Link Infrastructure Services encompasses the Networking, Telecommunications, and Core Infrastructure Services (CIS) groups and keeps the campus connected with data, voice, and cable TV networks while also supporting the campus desktop computing environment for all students, faculty and staff, including email, file storage, remote access, and printing. This group also is responsible for the University’s Network Master Plan. Eric Sedore Chief Technology Officer 315.443.3534 essedore@syr.edu Enterprise Application Systems Link Enterprise Application Systems (EAS) provides application development, security and scheduling support for the University’s enterprise deployments of MySlice, Campus Solutions, Human Capital Management, and Financials. In addition to these enterprise systems, EAS also provides programming and data integration support for key ancillary systems and departments including OnBase Content Management system; Degree Works system; Housing system. Additionally we also provide enterprise database support. Trudi Porter Director of Enterprise Application Systems 315.443.1815 tporter@syr.edu Enterprise Process Support/Project Management Link Enterprise Process Support (EPS) provides consultation and facilitation services for administrative and academic departments across campus to improve business processes. Learn more about our approach to project management. Enterprise Technology Group Link The Enterprise Technology Group (ETG) provides support for the University’s enterprise data resources and applications. This includes the Syracuse University enterprise data warehouse, as well as the EAB Edify data warehouse and infrastructure. ETG also supports the DataInsights (Tableau), MyReports (Hyperion Interactive Reporting) and Blackbaud CRM (“CITRUS”) analytics tools. Erik Anderson Director of Enterprise Technology Group 315.443.9680 esande01@syr.edu Information Security Link Information Security (InfoSec) works to protect SU’s data and information technology assets, and those of its students, faculty and staff, from all forms of human and electronic threats and compromise. Christopher Croad Information Security Officer 315.443.3989 ccroad@syr.edu In this Section Office of the CIO Academic Applications and Service Centers Administrative Computing Services Core Infrastructure Services Enterprise Application Systems Enterprise Process Support/Project Management Enterprise Technology Group Information Security Learning Environments and Media Production Networking Services Network Wiring Services Telecommunications 1-227 Center for Science and Technology | 315.443.2677 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy