Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Information Technology Services About Campus Technology Partners Training/Seminars Policies + Guidelines Security #BearAware Baylor ITS Staff Badges Bear ID Data Classification Standards Information Security Program Plan Network Filtering Solutions + Services Support Information Technology Services News News Webex and BigBlueButton Access Ending Soon March 31, 2022 Access to Webex and BigBlueButton within Canvas will end at the end of the spring term. Microsoft Teams and Zoom will serve as Baylor's videoconferencing solutions moving forward. Read More Global Phishing Attacks Reach New Heights in 2021 March 29, 2022 The global non-profit Anti-Phishing Working Group released its Q4 report in late February, finding that phishing, spearing, and ransomware attacks have reached record levels. Read More BearAware Alert: Phishing February 15, 2022 This past weekend the Baylor community experienced a series of email phishing attacks. DUO two-factor authentication provides a barrier of protection for the university against phishing attacks and other outside access to Baylor information systems. Only approve DUO pushes, phone calls, and use tokens that you know you have requested, and report emails that appear "phishy" to abuse@baylor.edu. Read More Majority of faculty respond positively in transition from phones to Microsoft Teams [Baylor Lariat] February 11, 2022 While some faculty members said they have experienced difficulties following the transition from traditional landlines to the Microsoft Teams Call platform last semester, Jon Allen, chief information officer and chief information security officer, said via email the vast majority of feedback he has received has been positive. Read More Baylor ITS Approves MacOS Monterey (12.2) for Use February 8, 2022 After an extensive period of testing, Baylor ITS approved the latest edition of Apple's Monterey operating system (12.2) for use on Baylor-owned devices. Read More BaylorITS Launches New Online System Status Dashboard February 1, 2022 Baylor has contracted with StatusHub to provide 24/7 real-time information about the status of its technology systems. Everyone in the Baylor community and beyond can visit systemstatus.baylor.edu today to see the current status of AirBear, Canvas, Ignite, BearWeb, Duo, Microsoft 365, and much more. Read More Microsoft Update Addresses Zero-Day Exploits January 14, 2022 This week Microsoft released a series of system patches as part of its regular "Update Tuesday." One of these patches addresses a very serious vulnerability (CVE-2022-21907) that allows attackers to target networked computers and execute code on the system without requiring any permissions. Read More Baylor Systems Impacted by Amazon Web Services (AWS) Issues December 15, 2021 On December 7, 2021, and again this morning, issues within the Amazon Web Services (AWS) server eco-system disrupted some of Baylor's technology resources. Read More Internet Pioneer Radia Perlman to Speak at Baylor November 16, 2021 "Mother of the Internet" Radia Perlman will speak on the campus of Baylor University on Wednesday, December 8, at 9 a.m. on the fifth floor of the Cashion Academic Center (Room 506). The lecture is presented by the School of Computer Science and Engineering and Baylor Information Technology Services, and is open to all Baylor faculty and students. Those interested in attending should email Candace_ditsch@baylor.edu. Breakfast is provided. Read More Baylor ITS Launches New Online Experience November 11, 2021 Baylor Information Technology Services launched a new website today, built on the university's new Drupal framework. The new online experience, available at its.web.baylor.edu, highlights the people and collaborative partnerships that drive technologies to empower the university in its mission. Read More Baylor Makes the Move to Microsoft Teams Calls November 2, 2021 Baylor is making an ambitious move to Microsoft Teams Calls between now and the end of December. Read More Be #BearAware In and Out Of...The Office October 31, 2021 Even though National Cybersecurity Awareness Month is over, we should all continue to be #BearAware. Since 2007, Baylor ITS has been a champion for this nationwide effort. This year's public awareness campaign focuses on eight best practices that are encouraged within the Baylor community and among all technology users. Read More Baylor ITS Urges Caution In Response to Windows 11 October 13, 2021 On October 5, Microsoft officially released Windows 11 for download and installation. Baylor ITS is currently testing this next-generation Windows operating system to ensure that it is compatible with university systems and software. Read More Microsoft Releases Mandatory Security Patch for All Windows Users July 9, 2021 Microsoft strongly encourages all Windows users to apply the 2021-07 Update to their devices. Baylor ITS is automatically deploying this update to all campus systems. Read More Information Technology Services One Bear Place #97268 Waco, Texas 76798-7268 (254) 710-4357 helpdesk@baylor.edu Information Technology Services News About Back Campus Technology Partners Training/Seminars Policies + Guidelines Security Back #BearAware Baylor ITS Staff Badges Bear ID Data Classification Standards Information Security Program Plan Network Filtering Solutions + Services Support General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678