Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Information Technology Services Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Service Catalog Training Information Security & Privacy FSU Service Center ITS Service Desk FAQs About ITS Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Information Technology Services Toggle navigation Home Service Catalog Training Information Security & Privacy FSU Service Center ITS Service Desk FAQs About ITS Home We Are IT | Meet Ryan Lane We Are IT | Meet Ryan Lane Wednesday 10/13/2021 An aspiring musician turned business major turned computer science specialist, Ryan Lane pursued technology to learn how to fix computer issues himself. As an ERP analyst IV, he is responsible for keeping various enterprise systems such as myFSU HR and Campus Solutions up and running and contributed to a major efficiency project that automated the installation of PeopleSoft file systems and domains. When he isn’t supporting essential university systems, you might find Ryan at home working on house renovations or kicking back playing Guild Wars 2. Where are you from? I’m from Orlando, Florida. Where did you attend school? For my undergraduate degree, I went to Florida Southern College and was a business major and music minor. I received my master’s degree from FSU in computer science. Why did you choose to work in technology? After I received my business degree, I had quite a few jobs. While I was working in accounting, whenever there was a computer issue, we had to have an IT guy come fix it. I thought, “I should be able to do this stuff myself.” I had always enjoyed playing with computers while I was growing up. So I decided to go back to school and get some education on computers and learn how to resolve technical issues myself. FSU accepted me into the computer science program and offered me a teaching assistantship. I came to get my master’s degree, and that led to the opportunity to get into technology. After I received my degree, the first job I had was in Atlanta with Accenture. I worked there a few years and gained PeopleSoft experience. FSU was implementing PeopleSoft at the time I was looking for my next job, and it worked out that I came back here. How long have you been at FSU? I have been working in ITS since 2003. What is your role at FSU? My current role is a senior PeopleSoft administrator. Basically, it involves keeping the human resources, financials and student information systems at FSU up and running. I keep up with patching and tuning things, and when it comes time for major upgrades, we take care of those. What do you enjoy most about your job? The variety of the work. There is always an opportunity to learn new things, between upgrades and new products and systems coming online. It is never boring. There is always something new coming up and always something new to learn. What's the most rewarding project you've worked on at FSU? The most rewarding project is a recent major project I worked on to install PeopleSoft file systems. In the past, installation required installing files from a CD, deploying domains, configuring domains and finally adding FSU customizations. It was a long, drawn-out process. Recently, PeopleSoft came out with deployment packages that automated the process. The project at FSU took the deployment packages even further and added in all the specific FSU customizations. When we do a deployment now, everything is automated. It is a lot more efficient and cuts the time spent installing PeopleSoft file systems and domains by 50-70%. The project was something we had been looking to do all along, and it was rewarding to finally get it done. We were recognized as a PeopleSoft Innovator by Oracle for our work in this area. Other than your cellphone, what is your go-to, can't-live-without piece of tech? The internet in general. I enjoy being able to research or find anything I need immediately instead of going to the library to find a book or something like in the past. If you were to invent one piece of technology, what would it be? That’s a tough one. Probably something that could block annoying ads and unwanted animations and things of that nature on websites that otherwise couldn’t be detected and circumvented. What is a fun fact about you? Instead of being in IT, my dream growing up was to be a rock star. I liked Jon Bon Jovi. Talk a little bit about your family. I live at home with my fiancé, Ame, whom I met online playing Guild Wars 1. We also have a cat named Alita who is named after Battle Angel Alita … although she does not quite live up to that title. What do you do in your free time? I bought a house a couple of years ago, so most of my time nowadays is spent doing projects around the house—renovations, improvements, repairs and things of that nature. With what little time is left I try to do some working out and biking. I play music when I can, either guitar or keyboard. And I also watch anime, read books and play computer games, usually Guild Wars 2. And in the fall, I am always watching FSU football. Contact Us 850-644-HELP Chat Submit a support request Place an order (TSR) Request a repair (RN) M-F 8AM-6PM ITS Service Status Contact Us 850-644-HELP Live Chat Submit a support request Place an order (TSR) Request a repair (RN) M-F 8AM-6PM Quick Links Students Faculty Employees Remote Work Essentials Departments ITS Intranet Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media