Skip to Content Information Technology Services Open Close primary navigation Search Search Home Get HelpExpand Collapse section Create a Help Ticket Self-Help Pages Classroom Support ITS Service Center Password Management Info ForExpand Collapse section New Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni & Former Students ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Accounts and IDs Blackboard Computer Labs Data Warehouse Email LinkedIn Learning Listserv MakerSpace Office 365 Printing at SU Remote Access Research Computing Teaching and Learning System Alerts AboutExpand Collapse section Blog DepartmentsExpand Collapse section Office of the CIO Academic Applications and Service Centers Administrative Computing Services Core Infrastructure Services Enterprise Application Systems Enterprise Process Support Enterprise Technology Group Information Security Learning Environments and Media Production Networking Services Network Wiring Services Telecommunications ITS News Our Mission Policies Technology Leadership Council Contact ITS Phish Bowl Search Search Resources for New Graduates Congratulations and best wishes to the Class of 2022! Check out this list of IT resources and how long you will retain access to them. Featured Pages Alumni & Former Students Technology access post-graduation, and more. Parents Technology and access information for parents. Faculty & Staff Resources and technology related links for faculty and staff. Current Students Technology related links and information for current students. New Students Resources to help new students get connected. Previous slide Next slide Information Technology Services (ITS) provides a variety of services and support options for students, faculty, staff and more at Syracuse University. Here you will find information on ITS support services including our support hours of operation, how to request assistance, and the many IT related services provided by ITS. Stay current with IT News and Events or learn about the ITS departments that contribute to our services and support options. Note that additional computing support services are also provided by school or college and departmental computing support staff. Quick Links Link Students Faculty & Staff Blackboard Blackboard Getting Help Getting Help Computer Labs Classroom Resources NetID Learning Opportunities Personal websites Remote Access SUmail Research Computing Web Conferencing Telecommunications Wireless Web Conferencing LinkedIn Learning Wireless News & Headlines New Phishing Scam Targets Text-Based Multi-Factor Authentication April 27, 2022 ITS has received reports of a new phishing scam that proceeds as follows: Step 1: A phishing attack goes out from a compromised student’s email. One recent example (subject line: “Attention!!!”) is framed as a message about terminating the recipient’s Office 365 account. The message’s “CLICK HERE TO VERIFY” link takes the recipient to a… Syracuse University Remote Access VPN Ends March 1 February 15, 2022 In January 2022, ITS began the process of decommissioning the Syracuse University Remote Access (SURA) VPN configuration. Due to the delayed start of the semester and in order to ensure flexibility for the University community, we provided continued access to SURA to anyone who had used it in the last 30 days. Effective March 1,… Spring 2022 Technology Update January 12, 2022 Happy 2022 from ITS! We hope you enjoyed some time to rest and re-charge over the last few weeks in preparation for a great spring semester. We have been working with our campus partners to implement some enhancements, which you can read about below. As a reminder, you can contact the ITS Help Desk (help@syr.edu… Read More News 1-227 Center for Science and Technology | 315.443.2677 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy