Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Information Technology Services Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Service Catalog Training Information Security & Privacy FSU Service Center ITS Service Desk FAQs About ITS Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Information Technology Services Toggle navigation Home Service Catalog Training Information Security & Privacy FSU Service Center ITS Service Desk FAQs About ITS Home Service Catalog Communication and Collaboration Web Services Events Calendar Events Calendar Discover what’s happening on campus with Florida State University’s interactive events calendar. The calendar brings hundreds of university events together in one place. You can browse upcoming events and quickly make plans with friends. The calendar—which includes filters for each unit—offers loads of customization and interactive features, making it easy to keep up with university events, whatever your interests are. Trending events | see what’s trending on campus right now and who’s attending Social sharing | share events to Facebook, Twitter or other social networks and invite friends Planning tools | RSVP, review ticket prices and find nearby parking Custom dashboards | sign in to set up event reminders and add events to your personal calendar Mobile friendly | access and navigate the calendar on just about any device Requirements The calendar is public, so anyone can view the events. However, to enable the all the calendar’s features you will need to log in using your FSUID and password. NOTE: Certain features are only available when signed in with an FSUID. For more information see Why do I need to sign into the university's event calendar? Cost There is no charge for this service. Support Please refer to the "Search for Help" button in the top right corner of this page to find any relevant FAQs for this offering. ACCESS Request a Calendar and Make a Widget With the university events calendar, you can spotlight not-to-be-missed events, track RSVPs, export events to social media and much more. All we need to do is create a filter, which lets you add events to the university calendar and display those same events on your unit’s website and other locations. Follow the steps below to get started: Sign in to the university calendar to authenticate and take full advantage of all the calendar’s features: Go to http://calendar.fsu.edu Click the LOG IN link beneath the banner image Sign in with your FSUID and password Request a filter by having an FSU employee at the director level or higher submit a support request. Include the calendar name and name(s) and FSUID(s) of FSU employees who will serve as editors for the calendar. Create a widget, using the following guides, to display a list of events from the university calendar on your unit’s website: Calendar Widget Tip Sheet Widget Builder TRAINING The new calendar system is extremely intuitive, but if you need a little extra help getting started, we’ve got you covered. Just see the links below. University Events Calendar Tip Sheet Localist Knowledge Base GUIDES Event Submissions HELP If additional help is needed, feel free to schedule one-on-one training with Web Services by emailing its-webservices@fsu.edu. Sign up for the FSU Calendar Listserv Sign In Request this Service Report a Problem Search for Help Need Help? Click the icons to contact the ITS Service Desk via phone, chat or webform. Service Alerts Check the ITS Service Status page for the latest info on outages and maintenance. ITS Service Status Related Services University Announcements Website Content Management System (WCMS) Targeted Messaging (Marketing Cloud) WebDAV Site Hosting Available To Student Students Faculty Faculty Staff Staff Departments Departments IT Pros IT Pros × Request This Service Request a Calendar and Make a Widget With the university events calendar, you can spotlight not-to-be-missed events, track RSVPs, export events to social media and much more. All we need to do is create a filter, which lets you add events to the university calendar and display those same events on your unit’s website and other locations. Follow the steps below to get started: Sign in to the university calendar to authenticate and take full advantage of all the calendar’s features: Go to http://calendar.fsu.edu Click the LOG IN link beneath the banner image Sign in with your FSUID and password Request a filter by having an FSU employee at the director level or higher submit a support request. Include the calendar name and name(s) and FSUID(s) of FSU employees who will serve as editors for the calendar. Create a widget, using the following guides, to display a list of events from the university calendar on your unit’s website: Calendar Widget Tip Sheet Widget Builder Close Contact Us 850-644-HELP Chat Submit a support request Place an order (TSR) Request a repair (RN) M-F 8AM-6PM ITS Service Status Contact Us 850-644-HELP Live Chat Submit a support request Place an order (TSR) Request a repair (RN) M-F 8AM-6PM Quick Links Students Faculty Employees Remote Work Essentials Departments ITS Intranet Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media