Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Who We Are Message from CIO Senior Leadership ITS Teams Department News Manage Account Stay Secure Phishing Multi-Factor Authentication Shopper's Guide Recommendations and Requirements OWLtech Store Get Connected System Status Resources for Students, Faculty and Staff Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University TUportal Our Alumni Information Technology Services Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search WE EMPOWER OWLS TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE WE EMPOWER OWLS TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE https://tuportal6.temple.edu/group/its Resources for Current Temple Students, Faculty and Staff Are you a current Temple student, faculty and staff member and looking to learn more about Temple technology resources you have access to? View more information on the TUportal ITS Intranet /computers-campus Tech Labs on Campus Gain an all-access pass to the latest technology through a number of computer labs and technology stations on campus to choose from. Tech Labs on Campus /techhelp Tech Help Get your Temple technology related questions answered by chatting with technical support team at the Help Desk. Tech Help https://tuportal6.temple.edu/group/its Resources for Current Temple Students, Faculty and Staff Are you a current Temple student, faculty and staff member and looking to learn more about Temple technology resources you have access to? View more information on the TUportal ITS Intranet /computers-campus Tech Labs on Campus Gain an all-access pass to the latest technology through a number of computer labs and technology stations on campus to choose from. Tech Labs on Campus /techhelp Tech Help Get your Temple technology related questions answered by chatting with technical support team at the Help Desk. Tech Help 600+ workstations available in the TECH Center for Student use 500+ smart classrooms featuring computers, built-in multimedia, and wireless access 20000+ videos available on LinkedIn Learning /tech-tools-coursework Tech Tools in the Classroom Succeed academically through the tech resources we offer to help you with you in the classroom, such as Microsoft 365, Adobe, Zoom, Canvas and more. Tech Tools in the Classroom https://tuportal6.temple.edu/documents/380033/0/TechnologyAtTemple.pdf Technology at Temple Guide See our Technology at Temple Guide to discover the many technology resources available for students. See the PDF version of our Technology at Temple Guide Featured News Category - Any -AlumniBioengineeringBoyer College of Music and DanceCenter for the Performing and Cinematic ArtsCollege of EngineeringInformation Technology ServicesKlein College of Media and Communication The TECH Center The TECH Center The TECH Center The TECH Center by Information Technology Services April 16 The TECH Center (Teaching, Education, Collaboration, Help) is a 75,000 sq. ft. state-of-the-art facility with resources that cater to current learning styles. Designed with a ... Laptop and Battery Share Kiosks Surpasses 50,000 Checkout Laptop and Battery Share Kiosks Surpasses 50,000 Checkout Laptop and Battery Share Kiosks Surpasses 50,000 Checkout Laptop and Battery Share Kiosks Surpasses 50,000 Checkout by Information Technology Services February 13 On February 13, 2020, the new Laptop Share and Battery Share kiosks, that can be found in Charles Library had it's 50,000 checkout of laptop or battery bank. The Laptop Share ... Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Information Technology Services The TECH Center 1801-33 N. 12th St.Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Follow Temple Information Technology Services Facebook Twitter Instagram Maps and Directions Contact Us Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.