Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Information Technology Services About Campus Technology Partners Training/Seminars Policies + Guidelines Security #BearAware Baylor ITS Staff Badges Bear ID Data Classification Standards Information Security Program Plan Network Filtering Solutions + Services Support Information Technology Services Security #BearAware #BearAware Baylor ITS Staff Badges Bear ID Data Classification Standards Information Security Program Plan Network Filtering #BearAware Be #BearAware In and Out of...The Office! Memes from the hit show The Office are hilarious, but falling victim to cybercrime is not. Throughout October, which is National Cybersecurity Awareness Month, Jim, Dwight, Pam, Michael, Darryl, Kevin, and other friends from The Office will remind us to be BearAware so that we can protect our personal information and the critical information resources of Baylor University. During this year's National Cybersecurity Awareness Month, faculty and staff will be required to complete cybersecurity training. Beginning October 15, 2021, several cybersecurity training modules developed by the SANS Institute will be made available through Ignite to all Baylor employees. These required sessions will educate the Baylor community so that we will continue to be diligent when it comes to data security. Review and follow these best practices to become more #BearAware, and see all of the Publicity Resources for our 2021 campaign. Passwords A great password along enhanced with multi-factor authentication, such as Baylor's Duo two-factor authentication, is your first line of cyber defense. Phishing Learn how to recognize and avoid this most common form of cyberattack. Also, visit our Phish Free blog for examples of current phishing attempts at Baylor. Social Networking Connect and engage with friends and others online responsibly using these helpful tips! Ransomware Be aware of this increasingly common form of cyberattack Backups Make sure you back up your most vital, personal data to protect yourself against hardware failure, a lost flash drive, or other forms of data loss. Prior BearAware Campaigns A look back at past BearAware campaigns from 2007 to the present! For more cybersecurity tips, visit Stay Safe Online, a great site produced by the National Cybersecurity Alliance. #BearAware is Baylor's cybersecurity awareness initiative. Throughout the year, Baylor ITS keeps our community #BearAware of the latest information on security threats through cybersecurity alerts, our @BaylorITS twitter account and the Baylor ITS Facebook page. Do Your Part, Bears #BeCyberSmart Information Technology Services One Bear Place #97268 Waco, Texas 76798-7268 (254) 710-4357 helpdesk@baylor.edu Information Technology Services Security #BearAware About Back Campus Technology Partners Training/Seminars Policies + Guidelines Security Back #BearAware Baylor ITS Staff Badges Bear ID Data Classification Standards Information Security Program Plan Network Filtering Solutions + Services Support General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678