Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Information Technology Services Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Service Catalog Training Information Security & Privacy FSU Service Center ITS Service Desk FAQs About ITS Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Information Technology Services Toggle navigation Home Service Catalog Training Information Security & Privacy FSU Service Center ITS Service Desk FAQs About ITS How to Access Your New FSU Email Account If you are having issues signing in to your email account, follow the steps below. Clear your cache and cookies Go to outlook.com/fsu.edu Log in with your new email (FSUID@fsu.edu) and password More Information Home One O365 One O365 It’s time to level the playing field. For years, FSU has had two separate systems for student email and employee email. The One O365 project consolidates student and employee email accounts into one system, hosted by Office 365, to make communicating across the university easier. The project, which occurs in several phases, will also bring changes to alumni email, retiree email and email account management. What is Changing? Several things. Click the audience buttons below to see exactly how the change will affect you. In summary, all students and employees will have @fsu.edu email addresses, and alumni will retain access to their FSU email account for one year after graduation. Why Change? Merging everyone into the same Office 365 system will open doors to increased collaboration between students, faculty and staff by giving everyone access to the same tools. The change also aligns FSU with industry standards and creates a safer IT infrastructure. Categories Students Alumni Faculty & Staff IT Professionals Primary Email Project Timeline Spring 2021 Project kickoff February 2022 Admitted applicants receive @fsu.edu email accounts May 2022 Current students transition to @fsu.edu email accounts December 2022 Alumni email accounts phased out Resources FSU Email FAQ Answers to all your FSU email questions for quick, DIY troubleshooting Search FAQs Student Email Upgrade Guide Five things to help you get ready for the change One O365 Guide Communications Kit Graphics and text for departments to print and share Communications Kit Technical Support Guide Resources for IT professionals Support Guidelines Support If you have questions or need assistance with the One O365 transition, please report a problem or contact the ITS Service Desk at help.fsu.edu. title-inside title-centered 2 Contact Us 850-644-HELP Chat Submit a support request Place an order (TSR) Request a repair (RN) M-F 8AM-6PM ITS Service Status Contact Us 850-644-HELP Live Chat Submit a support request Place an order (TSR) Request a repair (RN) M-F 8AM-6PM Quick Links Students Faculty Employees Remote Work Essentials Departments ITS Intranet Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media