Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Information Technology Services Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Service Catalog Training Information Security & Privacy FSU Service Center ITS Service Desk FAQs About ITS Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Information Technology Services Toggle navigation Home Service Catalog Training Information Security & Privacy FSU Service Center ITS Service Desk FAQs About ITS Home Service Catalog Communication and Collaboration Telephone Services Phone lines Calling Features Calling Features Dialing Capabilities FSU offers the following basic Classes of Service for use with campus phone numbers. To change your Class of Service, submit an order. Description Class Campus only calls 26 Campus and local calls 24 Campus, local, and long distance calls 23 Campus, local, long distance, and International calls 20 *Note: Not available with VoIP lines. Features The features displayed below have instructions specific to FSU phone lines. Please be sure to review your specific phone's manual (available here) for further details regarding each of these features and any other features that may be available that are not listed below. Feature Dialing Code Availability Centrex | VoIP AutoDial - | - Standard Busy Lamps* - | - By Request Call Blocking *67 | *148 By Request Call Forward Activate *72 | *108 Standard Call Forward Deactivate *73 | #108 Standard Call Forward per Key-Activate *87 | *108 Standard Call Forward per Key-Deactivate *88 | #108 Standard Call Pickup *76 | *112 By Request Call Trace *57 | *144 Standard Group Intercom* - | N/A By Request Last Number Redial ## | *138 Standard Repeat Dialing-Activate *66 | N/A Standard Repeat Dialing-Deactivate *86 | N/A Standard Return Call *69 | - By Request (Centrex) Standard (VoIP) Ring Again-Activate *77 | *106 Standard Ring Again-Deactivate N/A | #106 Standard Selective Call Rejection *60 | N/A By Request Speed Call Short *74 | N/A By Request Speed Call Long *75 | N/A By Request Transfer - | - Standard NOTE: Some features are compatible only with specific telephones. To add/remove additional features or determine feature compatibility with an existing or new set, please complete an order. Feature/Code To Use AutoDial Back To Top ↑ AutoDial numbers are typically frequently called numbers that can be dialed with the press of one key To use (Centrex): With the handset in the cradle, press the AutoDial key you want to program. Dial the phone number exactly as you would normally dial it (4-XXXX or 9-XXX-XXXX) OR for features * =12 (i.e. for *72 dial 1272) and press the AutoDial key again To use (VoIP): Assigning numbers to your favorites allows them to appear on your screen and dial the numbers directly. Note: the number must be saved as a contact first. *Note: Certain sets require AutoDial keys to be programmed. Submit an order to modify any programming needed. Busy Lamps Back To Top ↑ Busy Lamp keys monitor the status of other on-campus lines to allow individuals to see when other numbers are on a phone call To Use (Centrex & VoIP): If the light next to a busy lamp key is lit, the monitored line is busy. These also serve as autodial keys. You can dial or transfer a caller to the designated line simply by pressing the corresponding key to dial or transfer and the corresponding number to transfer a call *Note: The transfer feature is only available on Centrex lines *Note: Busy Lamps can only be programmed for lines of the same type i.e. a VoIP line cannot be programmed as a busy lamp on a Centrex set and vice versa Call Blocking Back To Top ↑ Call blocking prevents your number from appearing on Caller ID boxes To use (Centrex): Dial *67 and place your call To use (VoIP): Dial *148 and place your call *Note: You must dial *67(Centrex) or *148 (VoIP) each time you make a phone call that you wish to have your number blocked from appearing on. If the party you are calling has Anonymous Call Rejection your call will not go through. Call Forward Activate Back To Top ↑ Call Forwarding enables you to forward your number to any other designated number To use (Centrex): If your line has a designated forward key you may use this key to activate call forward by pressing the forward key, dialing the number you wish to forward to and pressing the forward key a second time. Call forwarding can also be enabled by dialing *72 and dialing the number you wish to forward your line to *Note: If a line has multiple numbers on the set (that do not ring anywhere else), all calls will be forwarded to the designated number To use (VoIP): Dial *108 and enter the phone number exactly as you would normally dial it. If you are forwarding to another FSU line you only need to enter the 5 digit extension (i.e. 4-1234) *Note: If a line has multiple numbers on the set (that do not ring anywhere else), forwarding will need to be applied to each line (even if both lines are being forwarded to the same number) *Note: While call forwarding is enabled, callers will be directed to the voicemail box of the line being forwarded to, not the original number dialed. This applies to both Centrex and VoIP lines Call Forward Deactivate Back To Top ↑ To use (Centrex): If your line has a designated forward key, simply press forward to cancel any forwarding on the line. The removal of call forwarding can also be completed by dialing *73 To use (VoIP): Dial #108 *Note: If a line has multiple numbers on the set (that do not ring anywhere else), forwarding will need to be removed from each line it was applied to (even if both lines are being forwarded to the same number) Call Forward per Key Activate Back To Top ↑ For sets with multiple lines (that do not appear anywhere else), call forward per key lets you select individual lines to forward To use (Centrex): Dial *87 from the line that needs forwarding enabled and enter the phone number exactly as you would normally dial it *Note: For VoIP lines please reference call forward activation instructions. Sets with multiple lines not appearing anywhere else, will need to follow forwarding instructions for each line that should be forwarded Call Forward per Key Deactivate Back To Top ↑ Dial *88 from that line that is currently forwarding *Note: For VoIP lines please reference call forward deactivation instructions. Sets with multiple lines not appearing anywhere else, will need to follow forwarding instructions for each line that should be forwarded Call Pickup Back To Top ↑ Call pickup allows you to answer incoming phone calls for other lines in your "group" without leaving your desk To use (Centrex): If your instrument has a dedicated call pickup key, you can press that anytime a call needs answering from within your preprogrammed group If there is no dedicated key, dial*76 to intercept incoming calls from within your preprogrammed group To use (VoIP): Dial *112 to intercept incoming calls from within your preprogrammed group *Note: Calls for other members of the group will not ring on your desk, you will need to be able to hear the ring coming from their individual set to know if it needs to be picked up Call Trace Back To Top ↑ Traces harassing phone calls back to the point of origin (FOR EMERGENCY ONLY) This feature should only be used after receiving LIFE THREATENING or harassing phone calls that require FSUPD involvement To use (Centrex): Dial *57 and follow the voice prompts. After getting the recording, hang up and then dial 311. A police report MUST be filed with FSUPD after this is completed To use (VoIP): Dial *144 and follow the instructions. ITS MUST be notified to complete the trace, please submit a case after following the prompts. A police report MUST be filed with FSUPD after this is completed *Note: There is a $10 cost per trace (if successful) and you will not be given the phone number. If you only want to the number of who has called, reference Return Call. Group Intercom Back To Top ↑ Group Intercom allows you to call other members of your designated group with a simple two-digit code, while leaving your phone line free for incoming calls To Use (Centrex): Lift the handset and press GIC or IC and dial the intercom number you wish to call *Note: This feature is only available on Centrex lines Last Number Redial Back To Top ↑ Last Number Redial allows you to quickly call back the last number who called your line To use (Centrex): Dial ## or press the redial key To use (VoIP): You have the option of calling numbers back directly from your "history" queue, dialing *138 (this will call the last number that you dialed) or from your phone screen you can select "redial" and it will dial the last number called Repeat Dialing Activate Back To Top ↑ Repeat Dialing allows you to be notified when a line you are trying to call is free To use (Centrex): After receiving a busy signal of the number you were trying to reach hang up and press the repeat dial key (if applicable) or dial *66. Wait for the recording and hang up The Repeating Dialing feature will monitor the line for 30 minutes. A distinctive ring will let you know when the line you were trying to call is free *Note: This feature is only available on Centrex lines Repeat Dialing Deactivate Back To Top ↑ Allows you to cancel the repeat dialing feature currently enabled on your line To use (Centrex): Dial *86 Repeat Dialing will automatically cancel after 30 minutes *Note: This feature is only available on Centrex lines Return Call Back To Top ↑ Return Call allows you to determine who the last number was that called your line To use (Centrex): Dial *69. An automated voice will give the last number who called (if not private) To call the number press 1. If the number is busy, a distinctive ring will signal when the line is free for up to 30 minutes To cancel the return call feature, dial *89 *Note: This feature will deactivate automatically if you do not receive a distinctive ring within 30 minutes To use (VoIP): Refer to your "History" page for a list of callers who have dialed you (a distinct icon separates missed and answered calls). From that page, you have the ability to call the number back directly Ring Again Activate Back To Top ↑ Ring Again monitors the status on on-campus numbers and notified you when the line is free To use (Centrex): If you do not have a dedicated Ring Again key, after receiving a busy signal of the number you were trying to reach (on-campus numbers only), press link and after receiving dial tone, dial *77, wait for the confirmation tone and hang up If you do have a dedicated Ring again key, after receiving a busy signal of the number you were trying to reach (on-campus only). Press your ring again key When the line you are monitoring is free, your phone will ring. Lift the handset and the number will automatically dial To use (VoIP): After receiving a busy signal of the number you were trying to reach, hang up and dial *106. You will be notified when the line you were trying to reach is available Ring Again Deactivate Back To Top ↑ Allows you to deactivate the ring again feature To use (VoIP): Dial #106 *Note: This feature is only available on VoIP lines Selective Call Rejection Back To Top ↑ Selective Call Rejection prevents up to 12 numbers from calling your line To use (Centrex): Dial *60 and listen for the recording to tell whether the service is on or off. Press 3 to turn on/off To add the last incoming call: You must first answer the unwanted call. After hanging up, lift the receiver and dial *60 then dial #01#, wait 4 seconds then hang up To add a specific number to the list: Dial *60, then dial # and wait for the tone, dial the selected number, press #, wait 4 seconds and hang up To remove a number from the list: Dial *60 and listen for instructions *Note: This feature is only available on Centrex lines Speed Call Short Back To Top ↑ Speed call short allows you to program up to 10 frequently dialed numbers. This allows for quicker dialing. If desired, a list can be created that will be the same for all numbers within your department or small group To use (Centrex): To program phone numbers: Make a list of up to 10 frequently dialed numbers you would like to have in the list (using numbers 0-9). Dial *74 and wait for steady dial tone. Dial the appropriate code (0, 1, 2, etc.). Enter the number to be encoded (enter exactly as you would dial it). Press # and wait for "beep beep" to confirm entry To delete numbers: Dial * plus the appropriate code plus # To use: Dial * plus the appropriate code To use (VoIP): This feature is known as speed dial, you can assign up to 10 (0-9) numbers in your list. This is done directly from your phone and specific instructions may be found in the phone manual Speed Call Long Back To Top ↑ Speed call long allows you to program up to 50 frequently dialed numbers. This allows for quicker dialing. If desired, a list can be created that will be the same for all numbers within your department or area To use (Centrex): To program phone numbers: Make a list of up to 50 frequently dialed numbers you would like to have in the list (starting with 00 and working up to 49). Dial *75 and wait for steady dial tone. Dial the appropriate code (00, 01, 02, 03, etc.). Enter the number to be encoded (enter exactly as you would dial it) .Press # and wait for "beep beep" to confirm entry To delete numbers: Dial * plus the code, plus # To use: Dial * plus the appropriate code Transfer Back To Top ↑ Transfer allows for easy transfer of callers between lines To use (Centrex): While the caller is on the line, press transfer. After you hear dial tone, dial the number you want to transfer the call to. After you hear a ring, press transfer a second time, then press RLS to hang up. If you want to stay on the line, do not press release after transfer, this will keep you on the line and initiate a three way call To complete a soft transfer (announcing that you will be transferring a call): While the caller is on the line, press transfer, after you hear dial tone, dial the number you want to transfer the call to, wait until the party answers and announce that you will be transferring a call, upon agreement of party, press transfer a second time and then press RLS to hang up, if you want to stay on the line, do not press release after transfer, this will keep you on the line and initiate a three way call Tip: If the line you are transferring to is busy or the second party asks you not to transfer, you may return to the original caller and disconnect the second party by pressing transfer two additional times ( a total of three times) To use (VoIP): while on the line, use the soft key "transfer" and enter the number you want to transfer to. You have the option of pressing the soft key "complete" and then hang up to immediately finish the transfer or you may remain on the line and confirm it is okay to transfer the call. Once you are ready to complete the transfer, press complete and hang up. Tip: If the line you are transferring to is busy or the second party asks you not to transfer, you may return to the original caller and disconnect the second party by pressing cancel. Legacy Sort 1 Legacy Priority 2 title-inside title-centered 2 Contact Us 850-644-HELP Chat Submit a support request Place an order (TSR) Request a repair (RN) M-F 8AM-6PM ITS Service Status Contact Us 850-644-HELP Live Chat Submit a support request Place an order (TSR) Request a repair (RN) M-F 8AM-6PM Quick Links Students Faculty Employees Remote Work Essentials Departments ITS Intranet Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media