Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Information Technology Services About Campus Technology Partners Training/Seminars Policies + Guidelines Security #BearAware Baylor ITS Staff Badges Bear ID Data Classification Standards Information Security Program Plan Network Filtering Solutions + Services Support Information Technology Services Security Bear ID #BearAware Baylor ITS Staff Badges Bear ID Data Classification Standards Information Security Program Plan Network Filtering Bear ID Protecting your personal information is one of the primary concerns of Baylor ITS. Every Baylor student and member of our faculty, staff, administration, along with some auxiliary personnel are issued a Bear ID. Your Bear ID is usually comprised of your first name, last name, and underscore character, and a number (e.g., Betty_Baylor2). This Bear ID is your electronic identifier that enables access to many services and systems at the university. It also forms that basis for your Baylor Email Address (e.g., Betty_Baylor2@baylor.edu). Your Bear ID and its accompanying password will be used several times a day as part of your education and service at Baylor University. To help manage your Bear ID, we provide a Bear ID Management System that maintains security while allowing for flexibility and convenience. My Bear ID Password is working My Bear ID Password is NOT working Approve Account Requests You will use the Bear ID Management System to set your password for the first time and to reset your password when necessary. You will be required to change your Bear ID password every 180 days. If you indicate your mobile number on the Bear ID Management System, you can use text messaging (SMS) instead of security questions to verify a change to your Bear ID password. To learn more about managing your Bear ID, see the following helpful information: Managing Your Profile and Security Questions Password Reset - Request Code Password Reset - Security Questions Change BearID Password BearID Activation To minimize the impact when changing your password, you should have your Baylor-owned computer physically connected to the wired campus network. If you have a laptop and are connected using the AirBear Wireless Network or VPN, you can still change your password, but you may be immediately logged out of those connection methods while your new password populates across Baylor's systems. After a few minutes, you will then be able to use your new password to log into the AirBear Wireless Network and VPN. If you opt to change your password while not physically connected to the network, your laptop will continue to use your old password to log into the laptop, and your new password to access emails, BearWeb, etc. until you physically connect your computer to the network. If you use an Apple computer, update your keychain when prompted so that your computer uses your new password. Guest Bear IDs University departments who are hosting short-term guests who need access to Baylor resources requiring a login (i.e., lab computers, printing services) are now able to arrange for those guests to have a temporary BearID. All accounts issued provide basic access to public computers on campus; additional access levels are available on a limited basis due to licensing and other restrictions. (If the guest only requires Internet access, they can request sponsored wireless access using BU-GUEST and do not need a temporary BearID.) Requirements Guests require sponsorship from a campus department. The sponsor should be the same person serving as the primary contact for the guest while he or she is on campus. Obtaining a Temporary Bear ID Departments wishing to arrange a temporary BearID for guests should ensure that the following steps are completed at least two weeks before the account is needed: The sponsor for a guest will log on to the Bear ID Management System. Click on the Requests tab Click on Request Access Click the Request Guest Access button, (Default time is 2 weeks. This can be increased or decreased as needed) Set the User Type to "Guest" Complete the form The approval for this account will be emailed to the sponsor's supervisor and upon approval, the account will be provisioned The supervisor of the sponsor, unless they are the supervisor, will get an email with the user id and authorization code for the guest to create their password The sponsor will give the guest these instructions for Guest Account Activation. Requesting Banner Accounts Ellucian Banner is Baylor's current student information system. To request Banner access, do the following: Visit bearid.baylor.edu Select the "Requests" tab, and then select "Request Access" from the options that appear below. If you are requesting Banner access for yourself, check the box next to "Include Self" in panel #1 on the page. If you are requesting access for someone else, type their name in the search box and click the magnifying glass icon. Select "Banner Access" from the "Baylor Resources" drop-down menu in panel #2 on the page. Then, check the box (or boxes) next to the systems for which you are requesting access and click the "Done" button. In panel #3, either indicate start and end dates (today's date will appear in "Start" by default) for access, or check the box next to the word "Permanent" if appropriate. Finally, enter a comment in panel #4 explaining why you need Banner access and then click the "Submit Request" button. A confirmation screen will appear, indicating that your request has been submitted. Your supervisor will receive an email that requests their approval for Ellucian Banner access. You can view the status of your access request by selecting "View Requests" under the "Requests" tab. Information Technology Services One Bear Place #97268 Waco, Texas 76798-7268 (254) 710-4357 helpdesk@baylor.edu Information Technology Services Security Bear ID About Back Campus Technology Partners Training/Seminars Policies + Guidelines Security Back #BearAware Baylor ITS Staff Badges Bear ID Data Classification Standards Information Security Program Plan Network Filtering Solutions + Services Support General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678