Skip to Content Technology Accessibility Open Close primary navigation Search Search Home Policy Workshops ResourcesExpand Collapse section Accessible Technology Toolkit Why is Accessible Technology Important? Request a Website Review Common Accessibility Errors News & Updates Contact Us Search Search Featured Pages Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD) 2021 Accessible Technology Toolkit Resources for creating accessible ICT Why is Accessible Technology Important? Get Help! IT accessibility for individuals with disabilities Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Accessibility Policy Request a Website Review Is your site WCAG 2.0 AA compliant? Previous slide Next slide Technology Accessibility at SU Ensuring Access for Individuals with Disabilities Link Information and Communication Technology accessibility at SU means ensuring that all technology is usable by the greatest number of students, faculty and staff possible, including those with disabilities, so that everyone is able to participate to the maximum extent that they can.Syracuse University values diversity, is committed to inclusion, and is working to integrate accessibility into all levels of technology, from procurement to implementation to individual use. Accessibility enables full participation by all people regardless of their individual learning styles and abilities. Our Focus Link The focus of the Technology Accessibility initiative at SU is to: Implement a campus-wide Information and Communications Technology Accessibility Policy Provide training and information for creating and maintaining an accessible technology environment at SU Evaluate IT products for accessibility during the procurement process Monitor compliance of existing campus technologies with the policy Committed to Inclusion and Accessibility Link Visit Accessible Syracuse for more campus resources. News & Headlines New to ARIA? February 22, 2019 Start with Beginning to Demystify ARIA, a dev.to blog post by Lindsey Kopacz for a good introduction to what ARIA is, and what ARIA is not… Skipping Navigation February 14, 2019 Anyone who relies on a keyboard to navigate the web knows exactly how important those little ‘Skip Navigation’ links are. If you need convincing, check out Nicholas Steenhout’s latest blog post on Knowbility: Skip Links are Important… A look back at 2018’s digital accessibility legal rollercoaster January 29, 2019 It was hard to keep track of what was happening on the digital accessibility law front in 2018. Here’s a nice recap from Educause Review’s Jarret Cummings entitled Digital Accessibility Law and Regulation: Current Status and What to Do About It… Read More News © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy