Skip to content About IVMF History Team Why Syracuse University Programs Entrepreneurship Getting Started Ideation Start Up Growth Resources Career Training Getting Started O2O By The Numbers About O2O Learning Pathways O2O Locations O2O Admission Employer Partners FAQ Community Services OLD About Veteran View Higher Education Apply Our Programs Apply to O2O EBV Application EBV-F Application EBV Accelerate Application IGNITE Application V-WISE Application Current Participants Research + Analytics About IVMF Research & Analytics Team Applied Research Research Projects Evaluation & Analytics Projects Policy Engagement Data Insights & Tools Data Philosophy Data Strategy Veterans Strategic Analysis & Research Tool (V-START) Our Publications Support IVMF Alumni News Institute for Veterans and Military Families Menu Contact Current Participants Digital Library Support IVMF Alumni search Search IVMF Search for × About IVMF History Team Impact Why Syracuse University National Veterans Resource Center Partners & Funders Programs Our Programs Entrepreneurship Getting Started Ideation Start Up Growth Resources Buy Military-Owned Shopping Guide COE Resource Library Career Training Veterans Program for Politics and Civic Engagement Getting Started in O2O O2O Learning Pathways O2O Locations Employer Partners Community Services AmericaServes AmericaServes Locations Technical Assistance Insights Community News Employing Veteran and Military Family Talent Apply Our Programs Apply to O2O EBV Application EBV-F Application EBV Accelerate Application V-WISE Application Research + Analytics About Research & Analytics Team Applied Research Research Projects Evaluation & Analytics Projects Policy Engagement Policy Priorities Data Insights & Tools Veterans Strategic Analysis & Research Tool (V-START) Data Philosophy Data Strategy Our Publications News Latest News Success Story Saturday Give Now Make A Gift Monthly Giving Ways To Give Search for: Life after military service can sometimes be a challenge. It doesn’t have to be. Our Mission + Vision A future where all individuals and families who serve in defense of our nation are empowered to thrive. Learn more about IVMF. Find Meaningful Employment Transitioning service members, veterans and military spouses bring valuable skills and experience to civilian careers. So whether you are looking for no-cost training and professional certifications through Onward to Opportunity or continuing a life of service through our Veterans in Politics Program, you will enter your civilian career path with a leg up on the competition and resources by your side. Entrepreneurship Military families have leadership skills, resilience and attention to detail that make them perfect business owners. IVMF offers intensive training, networking and resources at no cost for transitioning service members, veterans and military spouses to support you on your entrepreneurial journey. Community Services When military families return to the communities they call home, they deserve an efficient and supportive team to help them navigate the maze of care, resources and services available to them. The IVMF’s AmericaServes program gets community providers working together to streamline the help you need to sustain healthy and productive, stable lives following military service. Research & Analytics IVMF programs develop from listening to veterans and their families. A national leader in veteran research and analytics, located within a national research University, IVMF also provides actionable insights enabling other organizations to improve their service to veterans, active military and their families. Our research also helps to inform national policy, enhancing the work government agencies do on behalf of those who served. Get Started with IVMF We believe when one person serves, the entire family serves. IVMF is unique in supporting the entire military family unit in every way you can imagine. No more putting it off. It’s time for your next chapter. Higher Education Home to the D’Aniello Institute, Syracuse University is consistently ranked among the top private universities by Military Times for being the “best place for veterans.” Learn more about all the resources we have to make undergraduate, graduate and online learning accessible and affordable for all members of the military-connected community. Mission Posts 5.05.22 Applications Now Open for Veterans Program for Politics and Civic Engagement 2022! This is not a theoretical program discussing politics and what-ifs, but an intensive training and preparedness bootcamp to get real results in the political world. You can even see a few of our past alumni and their election results after taking this... Read More ▶ 4.26.22 Financial Literacy Month: Military Financial Readiness and Resources April is National Financial Literacy Month, and a time to give particular attention to military financial readiness. Service members, veterans, and their families have unique financial circumstances that most civilians don’t have to navigate. From ... Read More ▶ 3.29.22 | Spotlight 2022 IAVA Member Survey This report presents the results of the 2022 survey of IAVA members. Based on the responses of 5,174 IAVA members collected in Fall 2021, this study represents the view of one of the largest organizations for post-9/11 veterans on topics related to s... Read More ▶ “In order to succeed, your desire for success should be greater than your fear of failure.” Military Installation: Fort Carson Sec+ Graduate Systems Administrator, Northrop Grumman, Since September 2018 LeShelle Moore-Domesca Specialist, US Army Alumni Take advantage of resources, webinars, and a community of veterans and military spouses who share the IVMF bond through their post-service lives. Success Stories Browse dozens of success stories from our graduates that are different in all ways except for two: they’re military-connected and IVMF-connected. Support Us Learn more about the organizations, individuals, and businesses that help the IVMF achieve our mission, and how you can join us! Contact Subscribe Careers Privacy Policy Accessibility Copyright Close this module First NameFirst Name: Last NameLast Name: Your emailEmail:Submit What would you like to receive from the IVMF? Alumni Communications Programs & Events IVMF Support IVMF News & Updates Research & Insights