Skip to content Search Search MENU Admissions B.A. M.P.P. Joint Degrees M. A. S. World Fellows Apply Now Academics B.A. M. P. P. Joint Degrees M. A. S. Global Health Studies Faculty Centers & Research International Leadership Center International Security Studies Johnson Center for the Study of American Diplomacy Kerry Initiative Leitner Program on Effective Democratic Governance Careers Career Support Jobs After Jackson Graduate Summer Post Undergraduate Opportunities For Employers About About the Institute Leadership Diversity The Jackson Community Life at Yale New Haven Alumni Programs and Events Resources for Alumni Ways to Help Contact News Events Giving FAQs Login Contact News Events Giving FAQs Login Admissions B.A. M.P.P. Joint Degrees M. A. S. World Fellows Apply Now Academics B.A. M. P. P. Joint Degrees M. A. S. Global Health Studies Faculty Centers & Research International Leadership Center International Security Studies Johnson Center for the Study of American Diplomacy Kerry Initiative Leitner Program on Effective Democratic Governance Careers Career Support Jobs After Jackson Graduate Summer Post Undergraduate Opportunities For Employers About About the Institute Leadership Diversity The Jackson Community Life at Yale New Haven Alumni Programs and Events Resources for Alumni Ways to Help Search The Future of Jackson By establishing the Yale Jackson School of Global Affairs, Yale will continue to fulfill its responsibility to teach students to become leaders who will tackle challenges with wisdom, facts, insight, and courage. Read moreRead more Start Your Jackson Journey Now Our graduate admissions process kicks off each fall with on-campus info sessions and one-on-one conversations with our Admissions staff. Applications are accepted from mid-August to early January each year. We encourage prospective graduate students to visit campus to meet with faculty, students and staff, and to see first-hand all that Jackson has to offer. Read MoreRead More You are World Changers You are Future Makers You are Yale Jackson Jackson continues the University’s tradition of attracting creative, intellectually curious individuals who come to Yale ready to define their own path to a career in global leadership and service. Learn MoreLearn More Learn from Distinguished Practitioners Ambassador Anne Patterson served more than four decades in the Foreign Service, including as ambassador to Egypt, Pakistan, Colombia, and El Salvador. Read moreRead more Undergraduate Studies at Yale Jackson Jackson’s B.A. in Global Affairs is a selective major for which students apply in their sophomore year. The major is designed to give students the social science research tools necessary to solve contemporary, real-world problems. Learn MoreLearn More Pause Carousel The Future of Jackson By establishing the Yale Jackson School of Global Affairs, Yale will continue to fulfill its responsibility to teach students to become leaders who will tackle challenges with wisdom, facts, insight, and courage. Read more Start Your Jackson Journey Now Our graduate admissions process kicks off each fall with on-campus info sessions and one-on-one conversations with our Admissions staff. Applications are accepted from mid-August to early January each year. We encourage prospective graduate students to visit campus to meet with faculty, students and staff, and to see first-hand all that Jackson has to offer. Read More You are World Changers You are Future Makers You are Yale Jackson Jackson continues the University’s tradition of attracting creative, intellectually curious individuals who come to Yale ready to define their own path to a career in global leadership and service. Learn More Learn from Distinguished Practitioners Ambassador Anne Patterson served more than four decades in the Foreign Service, including as ambassador to Egypt, Pakistan, Colombia, and El Salvador. Read more Undergraduate Studies at Yale Jackson Jackson’s B.A. in Global Affairs is a selective major for which students apply in their sophomore year. The major is designed to give students the social science research tools necessary to solve contemporary, real-world problems. Learn More Pause Carousel Thinking about applying? Start Here Learn more about funding opportunities We serve the entire university through courses and core teaching programs in global affairs, career counseling, and public lectures. We are the home of the Master in Public Policy in Global Affairs (M.P.P.), a Master of Advanced Study in Global Affairs (M.A.S.) and the undergraduate major in Global Affairs (B.A.). Our academic programs are interdisciplinary, embedded in Yale and designed to help students gain a comprehensive understanding of global affairs. The Jackson Institute for Global Affairs promotes education and scholarship on global affairs at Yale. Graduate Degrees at Jackson Dreamers, doers, thinkers, and activists The Jackson Institute’s M.P.P. in Global Affairs prepares students to impact the global community through an academically rigorous, yet flexible interdisciplinary program. View M.P.P. ProgramView Other Programs Jackson Now Jackson celebrates Class of 2022 graduates The Jackson Institute for Global Affairs celebrated its graduates today with a diploma ceremony and lunch at Horchow Hall. The Institute awarded 31 M.A. degrees and 11 M.A.S. degrees in … Read More With new shield, Jackson School reflects ambitions, global perspective It has its first dean, several new world-class faculty members and soon, two additional buildings on campus. Now, the new Jackson School of Global Affairs, which on July 1 will become … Read More Jackson names 2022 Beck Prize recipient The Jackson Institute for Global Affairs has selected Yale College junior Natalie Simpson for the 2022 Douglas A. Beck Prize. The $1,000 award is given to Global Affairs undergraduates who have … Read More A new approach to U.S.-China relations When you think about codependency, romantic relationships usually come to mind, not international partnerships. But economist Stephen Roach believes it’s a particularly apt framework to examine the U.S.-China relationship. “We have … Read More Jackson celebrates Class of 2022 graduates The Jackson Institute for Global Affairs celebrated its graduates today with a diploma ceremony and lunch at Horchow Hall. The Institute awarded 31 M.A. degrees and 11 M.A.S. degrees in … Read More With new shield, Jackson School reflects ambitions, global perspective It has its first dean, several new world-class faculty members and soon, two additional buildings on campus. Now, the new Jackson School of Global Affairs, which on July 1 will become … Read More Jackson names 2022 Beck Prize recipient The Jackson Institute for Global Affairs has selected Yale College junior Natalie Simpson for the 2022 Douglas A. Beck Prize. The $1,000 award is given to Global Affairs undergraduates who have … Read More A new approach to U.S.-China relations When you think about codependency, romantic relationships usually come to mind, not international partnerships. But economist Stephen Roach believes it’s a particularly apt framework to examine the U.S.-China relationship. “We have … Read More Meet the Senior Fellows Leaders, Practitioners, Mentors Each year the Jackson Institute brings in a number of outstanding practitioners and experts in global affairs as Jackson Institute Senior Fellows. The Fellows teach courses, consult with students about career ambitions, enliven the conversation on campus, and conduct research emanating from their experiences. Learn More Susan Biniaz, a former Deputy Legal Adviser at the U.S. State Department, was the lead climate lawyer and a climate negotiator for the U.S. government from 1989 to early 2017. Robert S. Ford is a renowned expert on Syria, Iraq, and North Africa, and is currently a Senior Fellow at the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs as well as the Middle East Institute in Washington, D.C. Amb. Anne Patterson served more than four decades in the Foreign Service, including as ambassador to Egypt, Pakistan, Colombia, and El Salvador. Amb. Harry K. Thomas, Jr.’s three-decade career in the State Department included service as ambassador to Zimbabwe, the Philippines, and Bangladesh. Susan Biniaz, a former Deputy Legal Adviser at the U.S. State Department, was the lead climate lawyer and a climate negotiator for the U.S. government from 1989 to early 2017. Robert S. Ford is a renowned expert on Syria, Iraq, and North Africa, and is currently a Senior Fellow at the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs as well as the Middle East Institute in Washington, D.C. Amb. Anne Patterson served more than four decades in the Foreign Service, including as ambassador to Egypt, Pakistan, Colombia, and El Salvador. Amb. Harry K. Thomas, Jr.’s three-decade career in the State Department included service as ambassador to Zimbabwe, the Philippines, and Bangladesh. Meet the Faculty Outstanding Scholars The Jackson Institute draws faculty from throughout the entire University community. Students have the chance to engage with outstanding scholars from the professional schools of law, management, public health, and environmental studies, as well as from departments throughout the arts and sciences. Learn More Professor Timothy Snyder is one of the leading American historians and public intellectuals. He teaches courses on modern East European political history and is the author of numerous award-winning books. Economics professor Pinelopi Goldberg previously served as chief economist of the World Bank. Her most recent research examines trade, poverty and inequality and the resurgence of protectionism in the U.S. Professor Kenneth Scheve is a political economist who studies the domestic and international governance of modern capitalism. He teaches courses on international relations and governing the global economy. Professor Catherine Panter-Brick is a medical anthropologist whose research focuses on youth in global adversity, addressing issues of risk and resilience in contexts of poverty, disease, famine, armed conflict, and social marginalization. Professor Arne Westad is a scholar of modern international and global history, with a specialization in the history of eastern Asia since the 18th century. He has published 16 books, most of which deal with twentieth century Asian and global history. Professor Timothy Snyder is one of the leading American historians and public intellectuals. He teaches courses on modern East European political history and is the author of numerous award-winning books. Economics professor Pinelopi Goldberg previously served as chief economist of the World Bank. Her most recent research examines trade, poverty and inequality and the resurgence of protectionism in the U.S. Professor Kenneth Scheve is a political economist who studies the domestic and international governance of modern capitalism. He teaches courses on international relations and governing the global economy. Professor Catherine Panter-Brick is a medical anthropologist whose research focuses on youth in global adversity, addressing issues of risk and resilience in contexts of poverty, disease, famine, armed conflict, and social marginalization. Professor Arne Westad is a scholar of modern international and global history, with a specialization in the history of eastern Asia since the 18th century. He has published 16 books, most of which deal with twentieth century Asian and global history. Culture New Haven is a remarkably diverse city with rich cultural opportunities for entertainment both within the University community and beyond. Learn More Food & Drink Foodies rejoice, you have officially arrived. From the best pizza to the most intriguing sushi to the finest handcrafted cocktails, New Haven has a remarkable food scene you'll love eating your way through. Learn More Nightlife Get your nighttime on! From the speakeasy to the cigar lounge, New Haven's evening energy is vibrant and exciting, well beyond the borders of the University. Learn More Outdoors Get Outside! There's a myriad of picturesque New England landscapes within a short walk or drive from the University– from coastal scenery to beautiful hiking and running trails. Learn More Shopping From hometown favorites like Good Nature Market and Atticus to global brands like Patagonia and Apple, you'll find everything you need right here in The Elm City. Learn More Transportation Getting to and around New Haven is easy! MetroNorth, Amtrak and I-95 provide immediate access to Boston, New York, Washington, D.C. and other metro areas. Getting around is as easy as grabbing a bike, a shuttle bus, or your favorite rideshare app, and easily accessible parking is abundant all over town. Learn More Explore New Haven Tab Link for culture destination type Tab Link for food-and-drink destination type Tab Link for nightlife destination type Tab Link for attractions destination type Tab Link for shopping destination type Tab Link for transportation destination type Culture New Haven is a remarkably diverse city with rich cultural opportunities for entertainment both within the University community and beyond. Learn More Food & Drink Foodies rejoice, you have officially arrived. From the best pizza to the most intriguing sushi to the finest handcrafted cocktails, New Haven has a remarkable food scene you'll love eating your way through. Learn More Nightlife Get your nighttime on! From the speakeasy to the cigar lounge, New Haven's evening energy is vibrant and exciting, well beyond the borders of the University. Learn More Outdoors Get Outside! There's a myriad of picturesque New England landscapes within a short walk or drive from the University– from coastal scenery to beautiful hiking and running trails. Learn More Shopping From hometown favorites like Good Nature Market and Atticus to global brands like Patagonia and Apple, you'll find everything you need right here in The Elm City. Learn More Transportation Getting to and around New Haven is easy! MetroNorth, Amtrak and I-95 provide immediate access to Boston, New York, Washington, D.C. and other metro areas. Getting around is as easy as grabbing a bike, a shuttle bus, or your favorite rideshare app, and easily accessible parking is abundant all over town. Learn More Graduate Students Meet the Current Graduate Students The M.P.P. program is small by design. With 35 students with diverse backgrounds and career interests, Jackson’s graduate students form an intimate and loyal community. Read More Careers Networking in D.C. Jackson’s Career Development Office sponsors an annual D.C. trip. First-year graduate students attend panel discussions and meetings with government officials and high-level staff from nonprofit organizations and the private sector. Read More Courses and Curriculum Design Your Experience Each master’s degree candidate pursues an individualized course of study. For students this is a remarkable opportunity to study with renowned Yale faculty from all disciplines. Read More Mailing Address Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs PO Box 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites Yale University Covid-19 Information APSIA Contact Call: (203) 432-6253 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Email Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Sitemap | Login