Skip to content Search Search MENU Admissions B.A. M.P.P. Joint Degrees M. A. S. World Fellows Apply Now Academics B.A. M. P. P. Joint Degrees M. A. S. Global Health Studies Faculty Centers & Research International Leadership Center International Security Studies Johnson Center for the Study of American Diplomacy Kerry Initiative Leitner Program on Effective Democratic Governance Careers Career Support Jobs After Jackson Graduate Summer Post Undergraduate Opportunities For Employers About About the Institute Leadership Diversity The Jackson Community Life at Yale New Haven Alumni Programs and Events Resources for Alumni Ways to Help Contact News Events Giving FAQs Login Contact News Events Giving FAQs Login Admissions B.A. M.P.P. Joint Degrees M. A. S. World Fellows Apply Now Academics B.A. M. P. P. Joint Degrees M. A. S. Global Health Studies Faculty Centers & Research International Leadership Center International Security Studies Johnson Center for the Study of American Diplomacy Kerry Initiative Leitner Program on Effective Democratic Governance Careers Career Support Jobs After Jackson Graduate Summer Post Undergraduate Opportunities For Employers About About the Institute Leadership Diversity The Jackson Community Life at Yale New Haven Alumni Programs and Events Resources for Alumni Ways to Help Search Convening Rising Leaders We convene rising leaders from different backgrounds, places, and persuasions who are dedicated to preventing conflict and building better societies. Building Collaborative Networks We promote inclusive and international collaboration and is dedicated to harnessing its network for the local and global good. Effectively Addressing Challenges The ILC helps leaders make sense of our increasingly complex world; and supports them to effectively address the challenges of the 21st century and adapt through change and turbulence. Pause Carousel International Leadership Center The International Leadership Center (ILC) develops and supports innovative, effective and adaptive leaders to address the most acute and complex challenges facing the world. About Us The ILC facilitates the growth of leaders dedicated to preventing conflict and building better societies. What We Do The ILC offers several signature courses and administers three fellowship programs, including World Fellows. People Meet the people behind the ILC. RELATED LINKS Contact Us World Fellows Program Mailing Address Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs PO Box 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites Yale University Covid-19 Information APSIA Contact Call: (203) 432-6253 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Email Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Sitemap | Login