Home Visit Virtual Experiences Gardens Public Tea Ceremony Garden Audio Tour Education Japanese Arts and Aesthetics Minor University Classes Community Classes Kokoro Insights Japan House Shares Internship Program Support Tomonokai Membership Kimiko Gunji Legacy Fund Ogura-Sato Annex Fund James and Lorene Bier Garden Fund Arigatou no Kokoro Shop Japan House Goods The Art of Wagashi by Kimiko Gunji Matcha About Urasenke Tea Ceremony The Tea Rooms The Tea Garden The Dry Garden History The Grounds of Japan House Contact Donate to Japan House Want to stay up to date on Japan House news & events? Follow us on Facebook. Japan House aims to make the beauty of traditional Japanese arts and culture accessible to everyone. Jump To Plan your Visit Study at Japan House Learn More Register for upcoming public events such as tea ceremonies at Japan House via EventBrite. Shop Online for delightful gifts and other wellness items from Japan House. The Art of Wagashi by Kimiko Gunji is now back in stock! The gardens of Japan House remain free and open to the public at this time. If you have any questions, please email us at japanhouse@illinois.edu. Plan your Visit Join a Public Event Stroll the Gardens Take an Audio Guide Tour Study at Japan House Study Opportunities University Classes Community Classes Internship Opportunities Through cultural courses and seminars, community outreach programs, and international visiting artists, Japan House builds bridges and generates connections that unite us in our collective humanity. Japan House offers a variety of comprehensive classes in traditional Japanese arts for both University of Illinois students as well as community members. Learn More Urasenke Tea Ceremony Urasenke is one of the main schools of tea in Japan with history and tradition going back 400 years. Learn more about Urasenke Our History The roots of Japan House go back to the 1960s teachings of Shozo Sato. This permanent facility opened in 1998 under the direction of Kimiko Gunji. Read about our history The Grounds Japan House is surrounded by Japanese gardens, including a tea garden, a dry rock garden, and an allée of fifty cherry trees. Explore the grounds Newsletter Want to stay up to date on Japan House news & events? Subscribe to our newsletter. Contact 2000 S. Lincoln Avenue Urbana, Illinois 61802 t 217.244.9934f 217.333.9574