Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Licensure & Certification Navigation Search FSU Webmail FSU Sites Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Skip to main content Professional Licensure & Certification Wondering if an FSU program meets the licensing requirements in your home state or the state where you intend to practice? Many of our programs lead to professional licensure or certification. Whether your academic path leads to a career in social work, speech pathology, law, teaching, or another field, you may need a license to practice. In the search fields below, enter a program and/or major and then state to find out if your program meets the state's educational requirements for licensing. Program Major State/Territory Clear All Offering College(s): State Licensing Agency: License or Certification Professional Board of Licensure Program Type Meets Educational Requirements? Notes To view results, enter a program and/or major and then a state in the search fields above. Please Note: FSU makes every effort to ensure information regarding educational requirements for licensure or certification is current but is unable to guarantee that program requirements are met in any other state besides Florida. State requirements may change, and even when a program meets educational requirements for licensure or certification, state licensing boards may stipulate additional criteria (e.g. professional examination, background check, etc.). If you intend to pursue professional licensure or certification after graduating, we encourage you to contact the appropriate licensing board for guidance before beginning an academic program. Don't see your program listed? Some programs aren't designed to meet specific licensure requirements and won't be listed in this database. However, a program that isn't designed to meet licensing requirements may still meet them. Contact the offering college or department for more information. Program type refers to a program's delivery mode. All indicates that all delivery modes associated with a program (in-person or online) apply to the answer for Meets Licensing Requirements. In some cases, one delivery mode may meet requirements while another does not: In-Person indicates that only the face-to-face, on-campus offering of a program applies to the answer, and Online indicates that only the online offering of a program applies. Close Questions? inquiries@campus.fsu.edu 850-644-4635 Related Links Distance @ FSU Office of Distance Learning Resources State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution Accessibility Florida State University has been approved to participate in the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" FFollow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media