Columbia University in the City of New York facebook Twitter Events Current Events Past Events Event Images Sophisticated Giant: The Life and Legacy of Dexter Gordon Armstrong Continuum 2018 Armstrong Continuum Conference 2018 Armstrong Continuum 2017 Dada Masilo Jazzmobile Vision Festival Conference Afro-Travel: The Yosvany Terry Hand Picked Representing Jazz in the 21st Century Armstrong Continuum Concert 2019 Armstrong Continuum Conference 2019 News Courses All Courses Lessons & Ensembles Faculty Center for Jazz Studies Faculty Affiliated Faculty Support the Center Research Special Concentration Contact Us Media Select Page Mission Statement At the Center for Jazz Studies, jazz becomes a music without borders that provides new models for innovative teaching and scholarly inquiry in the arts, humanities, and sciences. Our themes of internationalization, technology and community encourage excellence in research, in the teaching of music and culture, and in the presentation of public events. The Center views the interdisciplinary expansion of the intellectual conversation surrounding jazz, and especially its lifeblood practice, improvisation, as tracing a path toward the development of new knowledge that illuminates the human condition. Since its founding in 1999, the Center for Jazz Studies has been integrated into Columbia’s renowned Core Curriculum, so that the College’s students gain exposure to the study of jazz. The Center’s faculty offer at least four major courses per year on jazz, attracting about 500 students, and support a jazz studies special concentration. Generous support from the Louis Armstrong Educational Foundation makes possible the Center’s Conversations and Performance Series, an initiative that aims to explore the role of improvisation in the widest array of fields and practices. The guiding premise of the series is that the study of improvisation can present not only a new animating paradigm for scholarly inquiry in the humanities, the arts, and the social, political, and even natural sciences, but also a set of trenchant models for political, cultural, and ethical dialogue and action that can foster community building across national and cultural boundaries. In addition to the Louis Armstrong Educational Foundation, the Center for Jazz Studies’ philanthropic supporters includes the Ford Foundation, the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, and the Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation. UPCOMING EVENTS Current Month june 2022 No Events july 2022 No Events RECENT NEWS Columbia Connects Shakespeare and Ellington With ‘Such Sweet Thunder’ Columbia Connects Shakespeare and Ellington With ‘Such Sweet Thunder’ Fred Moten, Cultural Theorist and Poet | 2020 MacArthur Fellow Fred Moten, Cultural Theorist and Poet | 2020 MacArthur Fellow Farah Jasmine Griffin Presented a Society of Columbia Graduates 2020 Great Teacher Award Farah Jasmine Griffin Presented a Society of Columbia Graduates 2020 Great Teacher Award The Great Thinkers: Robert G. O’Meally offers course at the 92nd Street Y The Great Thinkers: Robert G. O’Meally offers course at the 92nd Street Y © 2022, Columbia University Center for Jazz Studies | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination X