The Portal to Jesuit Studies Sign in Jesuit Online Bibliography A Free, Searchable Collection of Jesuit Studies Scholarship Toggle navigation About Learn More Institutional Partners Contributor Network Add Your Records Contact Us Mailing Lists Development Team Browse What (Subjects) When (Centuries) Where (Locations) Who (Jesuits) Bookmarks (0) History Search the Jesuit Online Bibliography Search in All Fields Title Author search for Search Help Advanced Search Jesuit Online Bibliography Add Your Records The Jesuit Online Bibliography is a free, collaborative, multilingual, and fully searchable database of bibliographic records for scholarship in Jesuit Studies produced in the 21st century. This project provides the citations, abstracts, subject categories, and direct links for books, book chapters, journal articles, book reviews, dissertations, conference papers, and other scholarly works related to the study of Jesuits and the Society of Jesus. The editorial oversight of the Jesuit Online Bibliography is a collaborative effort between Jesuit institutions — the Archivum Romanum Societatis Iesu, the Jesuitica Project at KU Leuven, and the Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies at Boston College. Voluntary contributors regularly submit records, and individual scholars, publishers, and librarians are encouraged to contribute as well. Thanks to the project's institutional partners, this resource is available in Open Access. Users also have the option to create a free account to save searches and to bookmark results. All the records of the Jesuit Online Bibliography are aggregated within the search capabilities of the Portal to Jesuit Studies. Learn More Visit the Institutional Partners Previous Next Featured Records The Guaraní under Spanish Rule in the Rio de la Plata Barbara Ganson's prize-winnging ethnographic study of the Guaraní Indians and the Jesuit missions in Paraguay, Argentina, and Brazil (2003) Visit the publisher, Stanford University Press. Diego Laínez (1512–1565) and His Generalate Edited by Paul Oberholzer, a collection of essays on Laínez’s personality and ministry, his political and social milieus, his works and networks, and his culture and education (2015) Visit the publisher, Institutum Historicum Societatis Iesu. Reform Catholicism and the International Suppression of the Jesuits in Enlightenment Europe Dale K. Van Kley's one-volume history of the national expulsions of the Jesuits before their papal suppression (2018) Visit the publisher, Yale University Press. Alonso de Barzana, SJ (1530–1597), el Javier de las Indias Occidentales. Vida y obra Wenceslao Soto's biography of the 16th-century Spanish Jesuit, Alonso de Barzana, one of the first missionaries in Latin America (2018) Visit the publisher, Mensajero. The Jesuits of the Low Countries: Identity and Impact (1540–1773) Edited by Leo Kenis and Rob Faesen, essays from an international colloquium at KU Leuven examining the Jesuits' impact the development of cultural, scientific and political life in the Low Countries (2012) Visit the publisher, Peeters Publishing. Full text is available from the Jesuitica Project at KU Leuven. Jesuit Pedagogy, 1540–1616: A Reader English translations of sources, edited by Claude Pavur and Cristiano Casalini, demonstrating the earliest developments of Jesuit approaches to pedagogy in theory and practice (2016) Visit the publisher, Jesuit Sources. Previous Next Jesuit Online Bibliography The Jesuit Online Bibliography is organized by the three founding institutions — the Archivum Romanum Societatis Iesu, the Jesuitica Project at KU Leuven, and the Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies at Boston College. The project's records are aggregated into the Portal to Jesuit Studies. The Jesuit Online Bibliography was developed by the Boston College Libraries. Learn more about the development team and process. Contact the Projects' Editors Learn More Add Your Records Copyright Trustees of Boston College