Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies The Portal to Jesuit Studies A Collaborative resource for research and scholarship Toggle navigation About The Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies The Portal to Jesuit Studies The Portal’s Collaborators Contributing to the Portal Policies Contact Us Research Tools Essential Documents Jesuit Online Library Jesuit Online Bibliography Digital Indipetae Database Jesuitica Directory General Congregations Fathers General Online Publications Jesuit Sources International Symposia on Jesuit Studies Jesuit Historiography Online Conimbricenses.org Studies in the Spirituality of Jesuits Journal of Jesuit Studies News Explore the Portal Help Advanced Search News at the Institute Spring 2022 Season of Jesuit Studies Cafés The Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies has announced a single theme for the Spring 2022 Jesuit Studies Cafés by hosting conversations with the directors and archivists of Jesuit Archives and Research Centers around the world. Details for this program may be found at the Institute’s website. Jesuit Online Bibliography Available in Open Access The Jesuit Online Bibliography is a free, multilingual, and fully searchable database of bibliographical records of scholarship in Jesuit Studies now available in Open Access at jesuitonlinebibliography.com. Editorial oversight is a collaborative effort between the Archivum Romanum Societatis Iesu, the Jesuitica Project at KU Leuven, and the Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies at Boston College. About the Portal A Catholic Library World article explains the story behind the Portal to Jesuit Studies–its origins, development, collaborators, and future plans. The article received the 2019 John Brubaker Award to recognize an outstanding work of literary merit. Free access is now available to peer-reviewed essays based on presentations at the 2019 International Symposium on Jesuit Studies, “Engaging Sources: The Tradition and Future of Collecting History in the Society of Jesus.” Additional essays will be published on a rolling basis. In August 2021, the Curran Center for American Catholic Studies has awarded its second annual New Scholar Essay Prize for Catholic Studies in the Americas to Kelly L. Schmidt for her essay based on her presentation at the symposium, “‘Regulations for Our Black People’: Reconstructing the Experiences of Enslaved People in the United States through Jesuit Records.” Tweets by BCEverToExcel Collaborate with the Portal and learn more here Featured Sources Jesuit Online Bibliography International Symposia Jesuit Online Library Essential Documents The Portal to Jesuit Studies Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Boston College 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Copyright Trustees of Boston College Contact Us Privacy Policy Contribute to the Portal About the Portal Sitemap