Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Jewish Studies Jewish Studies Contact Us Jewish.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Frequently Asked Questions Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Share Awards & Prizes Mozel Charitable Trust Research Funds Research funding is available from the Jewish Studies Program from the Mozel Charitable Trust. Students may use grants of up to $2000 to: participate in an archeological dig, study Hebrew or another Jewish language, further their thesis work, or undertake an independent research project. To apply, students should: 1) Send a letter to the Jewish Studies Program (email liz.cassell@dartmouth.edu ) by the beginning of the third week of fall, winter, or spring term 2) Include a letter of support from a Dartmouth faculty member who is knowledgeable about the project 3) Include a detailed budget The Gary H. Plotnick '62 Memorial Prize This prize will be awarded for the best essay or research paper written by a student in any of the courses offered by the Jewish Studies Program during the academic year. The prize may also be awarded for a submission on a Jewish Studies theme that may have been written for a course other than one offered by the Jewish Studies Program. The selection of the prize winner and the amount of the award will be determined by the faculty associated with the program. If there are no qualified student papers in any year, the faculty may decide not to award the prize. The deadline is the May 1st. Spring term papers will be eligible for the following academic year. History of Gary H. Plotnick Gary Plotnick came to Dartmouth following his graduation from the Horace Mann School in New York. A history major, Gary was an accomplished student-athlete. He initially pursued a pre-med academic interest, but later decided that business was a greater calling. At Dartmouth Gary showed his athletic skills leading his fraternity, Pi Lambda Phi, to intramural championships in football and softball, a precursor to athletic talents he later developed in golf and tennis. Following graduation, Gary enlisted in the Naval Reserve, flying missions for the anti-submarine service. He entered his family's shoe-manufacturing business and led its growth to a highly successful international company with factories in Italy, Brazil and the Far East. He was asked to give advice to Congressional committees on international trade and the US balance of payments challenges. Gary carried his Dartmouth experience with him for the rest of his life. He continued his love of learning with a voracious appetite for a wide variety of information, including history, Judaism, current events and the wonders of the English language. Friends and family often received his hand-written notes or clippings with his commentaries in the margins and his impatient demands that they had to read and understand the articles. If people ever used a word improperly, they would be corrected or, worse, sent to a dictionary or a book on English Usage to figure it out independently. Jewish tradition and the State of Israel, where he had spent time as a teenager, were of primary interest to Gary. He led the effort to raise funds to build a YM-YWHA in Bergen County, NJ, insisting that it adhere to Sabbath, Holiday and dietary laws. He also ensured that it contain a library to develop the mind as well as a gym to develop the body. Many other Jewish causes in Israel and locally also benefited from Gary's philanthropy. Gary was also the perennial Social Chairman. He was the "go to" guy for organizing mini-reunions, road trips or any festive occasion. He was the first to arrive and the last to leave because he would not want to miss a minute of a good time. When he passed away at the age of 57, Gary had been married to the former Margaret(Peggy) Harris, a gifted artist and decorator, for 32 years. His spirit was shining as their daughter Jennifer and Gregg were married, and it continues to shine on his grandchildren, his namesake Garrett and Nina. Funds for the Gary H. Plotnick '62 Memorial Prize in Jewish Studies were donated by Gary's family and his friends to perpetuate his commitment to Jewish education and humanitarian causes through talented Dartmouth students. Summer Stipends The Jewish Studies Program offers summer financial support for students engaged in research on topics related to courses offered in the Jewish Studies Program. Grants range up to $1,000. Letters describing the nature of the research, plus a budget, are due each year by the third week in May and should be directed to: Jewish Studies Program Reed Hall, Room 207 HB 6221 Students who receive funding will be asked to submit a report of their research after it is completed. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Jewish Studies Program Undergraduate Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Foreign Study Overview Frequently Asked Questions News & Events News & Events Lectures People Faculty & Staff My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback