Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Jewish Studies Jewish Studies Contact Us Jewish.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Frequently Asked Questions Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Plotnick Prize Winners 2022 Eliza M Helmers '22 Conflict and Coexistence: Exploring Egyptian, Jewish, and Egyptian-Jewish Narratives of Identity Gabriel M Chang-Deutsch '25 Reproducing the Hebrew Kings: Spinoza as a Critic of Revisionist Zionism Allison B Pittman '25 Striking Out: Jake's Fight for American Manhood in Abraham Cahan's Yekl Ana M Sumbo '22 Conceptualizing Black Life Within Afro-pessimism Gabriel A Modisett '25 Yekl and Jewish Self Hatred 2021 Daniel Garcia-Barnett '22, "An Analysis of Many Colors: A Discussion of the Characterization of Joseph Through Gendered Thematic Elements" Jack Kurtz '21, "The Politics of Hip Hop and Rap in Jerusalem" Carson Peck '22, "Red Hot Mamas and Jazz Sensations: The Motivation and Development of the Jewish-Black Musical Identity in America" Gavin Walsh '24, "The implications for the modern European Jew in Nathan the Wise" 2020 Elisabeth Brontë Jenkins '20, "The Feminist Problem: An Examination of Orthodox Jewish Attitudes towards Women as Reflected in the Journal Tradition" Eliza M. Helmers '22, "Salim Halali and Anne Frank: Spectrums of Experience" 2019 Sarah Kovan '19, "Fruitless: Reconciling Infertility and Advanced Reporductive Technologies with the Hebrew Scriptures in Ultra-Orthodox Jewish Communities" Dan C. Korff-Korn '18, "Hebrew Nation & Jewish People: Confronting American Jewry's Ongoing Identity Crisis" 2018 Sahil Abbi, '20, "Tel Aviv as a Case Study on Corporatist, Statist, and Neoliberal Jewish Urbanism" 2017 Burack, Emily '17, "We are Speaking of Jewish Survival': The Emergence of the Jewish Defense League" Farkas, Sandor '17, "The Domes of al-Haram al-Sharif in Palestinian National Identity" Wien, Elise '17, "Third Night" 2014 Marissa L. Wizig '14, "Our Minds Toward Masada" 2013 Gabrielle A. Mezochow '13, "Constructing a Survivor: The Americanization of Jewish Immigrants After the Holocaust" Paola Ortega (MALS), "The Literature of Extremity: A Style for the Unspeakable" 2012 Kurt Prescott '12, Chapter from a Religion thesis "From Dan to Beersheba." The chapter discusses archeological evidence from Tel Dan and argues for its Israelite identity and for its significance in interpreting biblical accounts of the Jerusalem temple. Nathan Gusdorf '12, Chapter from a Philosophy thesis "Adorian Marxism: The Concept of Critique." The chapter defends Adorno's Dialectic of Enlightenment from Habermas' criticism by retracing the structure of the dialectic and showing that the violence of fascist anti-Semitism is a specific, possible but not a necessary, outcome of the dialectic. 2011 Saul E. Zebovitz '11, "The Modern State of American Jewish Education" Claire E. Scott '11, "Deutschkron: Ich Trug den Gelben Stern" Kurt W. Prescott '12, "Pilgrimage to Sinai? Understanding Kuntillet Ajrud in the Context of Religious Pluralism" 2010 Nathaniel F. Obler '10, "Spinoza's Shadow: Jewish Modernities in Maimon, Hess, and Freud" Tien-Tien L. Jong '10, "Responses to Kant's Moral Philosophy from Spinoza, Buber, and Levinas" 2008 Timothy M. Baker '08, "All that Glitters: Considering the Spanish Golden Age in Light of its Evidence and its Constructed Histories" Jacob L. Schindel '09, "Secularity and Judaism in Allen Ginsberg's 'Howl" 2007 Dana S. Altshuler, MALS, "Imagining and Imaging Anti-Semitism: Jewish Self-Hatred in 20th Century Literature and Culture" Ashley B. Graham '07, "A Jewish American or an Americanized Jew? Eastern European Jews in German Jewish Institutions in New York City, 1880-1914" Timothy M. Baker '08, "Hath Not a Jew...? Dietrich Bonhoeffer and Anti-Judaism from April 1933 to November 1933" 2006 Sara A. Givner '06, "Secular Yiddish Culture and Jewish Identity in America: A Study of New York-based Yiddish Schools and Summer Camps, 1930-1960" 2005 David Kerem, "On the Film Rendition of Yorim Kaniuk's Himmo King of Jerusalem" 2004 Samuel Stein '04, "Iron Wall' Politics : A Look at Ze'ev Jabotinsky's Revisionist Zionism and Israel Following the Six-Day War "  Elisheva M. Hirschman-Green '04, "Other' in a Community of 'Others' : the Jews of District Six, Cape Town 1880-1920 " 2003 Magdalena Panz '05, "Three Caskets and the Three Rings: Solving Riddles in the Merchant of Venice and Nathan the Wise" 2002 Sandeep Ramesh, '05, "Hybridity or Theoretical Chaos? The Location of Culture or the End of Culture? An Analysis of Homi K. Bhabha's Framework of Hybridity and Its Drastic Shortcomings in Relation to the Holocaust" Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Jewish Studies Program Undergraduate Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Foreign Study Overview Frequently Asked Questions News & Events News & Events Lectures People Faculty & Staff My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback