/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Courses Undergraduate Minor Languages Faculty About Us Contacts Lecture Archive Library Resources Funding Opportunities Undergraduate Funding Graduate Funding Faculty Funding The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Ensuring that the richness of Jewish culture is energetically presented at Cornell. Jewish Studies Program Founded on the conviction that the record contained in the languages, literature, and history of the Jewish people, as these developed across the globe and over thousands of years, are an integral part of human heritage. News Reunion 2022 features host of A&S events A number of special events are planned in the College of Arts & Sciences to celebrate Reunion 2022. Read More Einaudi awards fund global research and activities Seed grants, student travel grants and internships totaling $355,000 in the 2021–22 academic year supported international work done by many A&S faculty and students. Read More New Frontier Grants push boundaries in A&S research The College has awarded seven New Frontier Grants totaling $1.25 million to faculty members pursuing critical developments in areas across sciences and humanities. Read More Call for papers for December 2022 Workshop on Judeo-Persian Literature Cornell University is pleased to announce a call for papers for an online workshop on “Judeo-Persian Literature at the Intersection of Jewish Studies and Iranian Studies,” held entirely on Zoom on December 6 and 7, 2022. The deadline to submit a proposal is June 10. Read More Yiddish to fulfill A&S language requirement Starting Fall 2022, with the addition of a redesigned Intermediate Yiddish class, students will be able to fulfill the College of Arts & Sciences’ language requirement by taking Yiddish. Read More Fall 2022 Jewish Studies Courses of Interest Pre-enrollment for Fall 2022 begins later this month. See a sample of the courses that the program is offering! Read More Call for Applications: Jews and Black Theory Workshop Cornell Jewish Studies announces a workshop to be held in Ithaca from Monday, August 8 through Friday, August 12, 2022. Scholars at the level of ABD and above, along with independent scholars, are welcome to apply. The application deadline is April 20. Read More Call for Applications: Summer 2022 Undergraduate Research and Travel Grant Now accepting applications from undergraduate students seeking support for travel and research in Summer 2022. The deadline for submissions is May 2, 2022. Read More More news Events Jun 10 Medicine in the Talmud Goldwin Smith Hall See all events Popular Destinations Undergraduate Minor Courses Languages Faculty Funding Opportunities Lecture Archive Alumni News Engage with Jewish Studies Take a class Start your journey by taking a class such as “Introduction to Judaism” (JWST 2644), studying Hebrew or Yiddish, or enrolling in or one of the many other courses we offer. Declare a minor in Jewish studies Tempted by more than one Jewish studies course? Consider pursuing a minor in Jewish studies. Attend a program Join a live lecture, panel discussion, literary reading, or performance, or explore our video archive of previous events. Check our event calendar. Speak a Jewish language Join a conversation group in Yiddish or Hebrew (available during the academic school year). Conduct Research Explore the resources at the Cornell Library. Apply for funding to support summer research and travel. We offer grants for undergraduate and graduate students! Get program updates We send regular e-newsletters during the academic school year. Join our email list Support Jewish studies at Cornell Your support enables the program to enhance the experience for undergraduate students. Gifts can help fund lectures and conferences, student research, distinguished speakers, and other program priorities. We will greatly appreciate and immediately put into use any gift, no matter the amount. Please consider a donation to the Jewish Studies Current Use Gift Fund. Or send checks payable to (include a note that indicates that the gift should be directed to the Jewish Studies Program): Cornell University Box 37334 Boone, IA 50037-0334 More information on ways to give. Jewish Studies Minor Faculty Contact 409 White Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Jewish Studies Program 607-255-6275 Twitter Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top