Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Jewish Studies Jewish Studies Contact Us Jewish.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Frequently Asked Questions Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Frequently Asked Questions Share Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Requirements? Students will be required to have completed at least one course in JWST or GERM prior to the trip. They will also be required to participate in three preparatory meetings over the course of the fall quarter prior to their departure in November. When Can I Go? The program is run during the 3 week winterim. What Courses can I take? Sign up for fall JWST 34.03 How many students go on this program? the cap is 18 Where will I live? Students live with homestay families. Student Life? The program features several day trips and extended overnight trips with lectures and excursions, some of which may vary depending on the interests of the students enrolled in the program as well as the situation in Europe. Who oversees the program? The program directors Susannah Heschel and Veronika Fuechtner in conjunction with The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Studies. How do I receive credits for this? During fall term sign up for JWST 34.03 as your fourth course. Is there a paper or exam? There is a final exam for the course. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Jewish Studies Program Undergraduate Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Foreign Study Overview Frequently Asked Questions News & Events News & Events Lectures People Faculty & Staff My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback