Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Jewish Studies Jewish Studies Contact Us Jewish.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Frequently Asked Questions Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Susannah Heschel Academic Appointments Chair, Jewish Studies Program Eli M. Black Distinguished Professor of Jewish Studies Susannah Heschel is the Eli M. Black Distinguished Professor of Jewish Studies at Dartmouth College. Her scholarship focuses on Jewish and Protestant thought during the 19th and 20th centuries, including the history of biblical scholarship, Jewish scholarship on Islam, and the history of anti-Semitism. Her numerous publications include Abraham Geiger and the Jewish Jesus (University of Chicago Press), which won a National Jewish Book Award, The Aryan Jesus: Christian Theologians and the Bible in Nazi Germany (Princeton University Press), and Jüdischer Islam: Islam und Deutsch-Jüdische Selbstbestimmung (Mathes und Seitz). Heschel has been a visiting professor at the Universities of Frankfurt and Cape Town as well as Princeton, and she is the recipient of numerous grants, including from the Ford Foundation, Carnegie Foundation, and a yearlong Rockefeller fellowship at the National Humanities Center. In 2011-12 she held a fellowship at the Wissenschaftskolleg in Berlin. She has received four honorary doctorates from universities in the United States, Canada, and Germany. Currently she is a Guggenheim Fellow and is writing a book on the history of European Jewish scholarship on Islam. In 2015 she was elected a member of the American Society for the Study of Religion. The author of over one hundred articles, she has also edited several books, including Muslims Responses to European Orientalism (with Umar Ryad); Moral Grandeur and Spiritual Audacity: Essays of Abraham Joshua Heschel; Betrayal: German Churches and the Holocaust (with Robert P. Ericksen); Insider/Outsider: American Jews and Multiculturalism(with David Biale and Michael Galchinsky). She serves on the academic advisory council of the Center for Jewish Studies in Berlin and on the Board of Trustees of Trinity College. She has also taught at Southern Methodist University and Case Western Reserve University. + View more Contact Susannah.Heschel@Dartmouth.EDU 646-3620 218 Reed Hall HB 6036 Education A.B. Trinity College M.T.S. Harvard Divinity School Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania Areas of Expertise Judaism /Nazi Germany /Jewish feminism /Abraham Geiger /Jewish views of Islam Selected Publications Jüdischer Islam: Islam und jüdisch-deutsche Selbstbestimmung, trans. Dirk Hartwig (Berlin: Mathes und Seitz, 2018). The Muslim Reception of European Orientalism, ed. Susannah Heschel and Umar Ryad (New York: Routledge Press, 2018). Holocaust Scholarship: Personal Trajectories and Professional Interpretations, ed. Christopher Browning, Susannah Heschel, Michael R. Marrus and Milton Shain (New York: Palgrave-Macmillan Books, 2015). “Theological Ghosts and Goblins: Martin Luther’s Haunting of Liberal Judaism,” Polyphonie der Theologie: Verantwortung und Widerstand in Kirche und Politik, ed. Matthias Grebe (Stuttgart: W. Kohlhammer Verlag, 2019) “A Different Kind of Theo-Politics: Abraham Joshua Heschel, the Prophets and the Civil Rights Movement,” Journal of Political Theology (Winter 2020) “Ecstasy versus Ethics: The Impact of World War I on German Biblical Scholarship on the Hebrew Prophets,” in: The First World War and the Mobilization of Biblical Scholarship, ed. Andrew Mein, Nathan MacDonald and Matthew A. Collins (London: T&T Clark, 2019), 187-206. “The Philological Uncanny: Nineteenth-Century Jewish Readings of the Qur’an,” The Journal of Qur’anic Studies 20:3 (Fall 2018), 191-211. “‘Wherever You See the Trace of Man, There I Stand Before You’: The Complexities of God and Human Dignity Within Judaism,” Human Dignity in Context: Explorations of a Contested Concept, ed. Dieter Grimm, Alexandra Kemmerer, Christoph Möllers (Baden-Baden: Nomos, 2018), 129-62. “Out of the Mystery Comes the Bond: The Role of Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel in Shaping Nostra Aetate,” in: Righting Relations after the Holocaust and Vatican II: Essays in Honor of John Pawlikowski, ed. Elena G. Procario-Foley and Robert A. Cathey (New Jersey: Paulist Press, 2018), 199-225. With Sarah Imhoff, “Where are the Women in Jewish Studies?” Forward (July 2018) “A Friendship in the Prophetic Tradition: Abraham Joshua Heschel and Martin Luther King, Jr.,” Telos (April 2018), 67-84. “Jews and Christianity,” in: Cambridge History of Judaism, ed. Mitchell Hart and Tony Michels (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2017), 1063-92. + View more Works In Progress The Jewish Fascination with Islam: The History of Jewish Scholarship on Islam and its Impact on Modern Jewish Self-Understanding (under preparation); Holocaust Scholarship: Personal Trajectories and Professional Interpretations, ed. Christopher Browning, Susannah Heschel, Michael R. Marrus and Milton Shain, to be published by Berghahn Books (New York: Berghahn Books, forthcoming in 2014); “Human Dignity in Judaism: Divinely Bestowed, Humanly Performed,” Human Dignity, ed. Alexandra Kemmerer (forthcoming in 2015). Courses JWST-10 (2A) History and Culture of the Jews I: The Classical Period (Identical to HIST 94.8) REL-19.2 (10A) Women and Gender in Islam and Judaism (Identical to JWST 15 and WGST 44.2) (co-taught with Katajun Amirpur, Harri Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Jewish Studies Program Undergraduate Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Foreign Study Overview Frequently Asked Questions News & Events News & Events Lectures People Faculty & Staff My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback