Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Jewish Studies Jewish Studies Contact Us Jewish.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Frequently Asked Questions Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Lectures Back to Top Nav People Faculty & Staff Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Democracy Will Win Irmela von der Lühe, Distinguished Harris Visiting Professor and Veronika Feuchtner, Dartmouth Jewish Studies Program Chair, June 2, 2022, 12:00 pm, Foyer, Baker-Berry Library, at the Thomas Mann Exhibit. Welcome Jonathan Schorsch Jonathan Schorsch, University of Potsdam will teach this Fall 2022 for the Jewish Studies Program, JWST 15.02/REL 74.18. Welcome Moshe Naor! Moshe Naor, University of Haifa will be joining the Jewish Studies Program Fall 2022. He will teach JWST 11.02/MES 12.15. Welcome Eli Rosenblatt Welcom Eli Rosenblatt who will be joining the Jewish Studies Program this Summer 2022 as a lecturer. He will teach JWST 11 and JWST 13. Jewish Studies Program Statement Concerning Russia's War Against Ukraine The faculty of the Jewish Studies Program at Dartmouth College condemns Russia's aggression against Ukraine which began in 2014 with the annexation of Crimea and has escalated with Russia's large-scale invasion of Ukraine. Joint Winterim FSP Program - German Studies Department & Jewish Studies Program Application deadline is April 15, 2022. German Studies Department and the Jewish Studies Program now accepting applications for the new joint winterim program, Berlin Germany. Interviewing Egypt's Vanishing Jewish Community Eliza Helmers '22 is basing her senior honors thesis on intensive fieldwork. Selma Bridge Crossing Jubilee Susannah Heschel was invited to Selma for commemorations of Bloody Sunday. Carnivalesque Pluralism: Jews and Arabs Fighting White Supremacy on the Midway Carnivalesque Pluralism: Jews and Arabs Fighting White Supremacy on the Midway of the World's Columbian Exhibition of 1893. , Jacob S. Dorman, University of Nevada, Virtual Zoom, No pre-registration, March 8, 2022, 12:15 pm. Spring 2022 Gender and Jewish German Culture 11 hour, Irmela Von der Lühe, In this class we will investigate different texts and representations of female experiences by Jewish authors from the Weimar Republic to the end of the 20th century. Recent Publications view all Meir Kahane: The Public Life and Political Thought of an American Jewish Radical Shaul Magid Princeton University Press Publication Date October 12, 2021 Bernhard H. Stern, an American Apologist for Stalinism Sergei Kan History of Anthropology Review. February 25, 2021 (online) In This Hour Heschel's Writings in Nazi Germany and London Exile Susannah Heschel Abraham Joshua Heschel, Susannah Heschel, Helen Plotkin, Stephen Lehmann, Marion Faber Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Jewish Studies Program Undergraduate Minor Overview Courses Awards & Prizes Plotnick Prize Winners Resources Alumni Stories Foreign Study Overview Frequently Asked Questions News & Events News & Events Lectures People Faculty & Staff My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback