Skip to main content Home About Editorial Board Advisory Board Announcements Analysis Features Arguments Interviews Book Reviews Print Dynamics of Global Feminism The Fourth Industrial Revolution Ungoverned Spaces More Student Essays Andrew Wellington Cordier Essays Global Public Policy Network Essays Visual Essays Subscribe Submissions Join Us Home About Editorial Board Announcements Advisory Board Analysis Features Arguments Interviews Book Reviews Miniseries: Emerging Markets in the Post-COVID-19 Era Podcast Print Politics of Protest Climate Disruption Dynamics of Global Feminism The Fourth Industrial Revolution More Student Essays Andrew Wellington Cordier Essays Global Public Policy Network Essays Visual Essays Subscribe Submissions 2022: Microstates and Small States Online Edition Student Contests Join Us Search form Upholding Rights In Political Turbulence: Challenges and Opportunities for the U.N. Special Procedure on the Human Rights Situation in Post-Coup Myanmar Peixuan Xie New York City’s Role as an International Leader Advancing Equity Christian Loubeau A Turning Point? COP26 and the Global Fight Against Climate Change Daniel Propp Building Trust Instead of Troops: Germany’s Incoming Government and European Policy in Mali Lukas Hertel Russia and China have become critical allies to Latin America and the Caribbean during the pandemic. The United States should step up. Cristina Guevara International Cooperation in an Age of Technological Competition Daniel Garcia-Macia, Rishi Goyal Upholding Rights In Political Turbulence: Challenges and Opportunities for the U.N. Special Procedure on the Human Rights Situation in Post-Coup Myanmar New York City’s Role as an International Leader Advancing Equity A Turning Point? COP26 and the Global Fight Against Climate Change Building Trust Instead of Troops: Germany’s Incoming Government and European Policy in Mali Russia and China have become critical allies to Latin America and the Caribbean during the pandemic. The United States should step up. International Cooperation in an Age of Technological Competition Feature Emerging markets and the hiking cycle: this time, really, it may be different Jorge Mariscal & Bret Rosen The Russia-Ukraine War as a Regressive Global Tax: The Effect of Commodity Terms of Trade on Developing Economies Benjamin Mandel Agreements, Aggression, and Embargoes: Parallels from the Past to Russia and Ukraine John Golden Non-Refoulement: A Human Rights Perspective on Environmental Migration from Small Island Developing States Shaindl Keshen & Steven Lazickas Arguments Principles of Modern City Diplomacy and the Expanding Role of Cities in Foreign Policy Benjamin Leffel A Turning Point? COP26 and the Global Fight Against Climate Change Daniel Propp Russia and China have become critical allies to Latin America and the Caribbean during the pandemic. The United States should step up. Cristina Guevara International Cooperation in an Age of Technological Competition Daniel Garcia-Macia, Rishi Goyal Print Protest at the Center of American Politics Michael T. Heaney The Cradle to Cradle Movement Interview with Michael Braungart The Role of Carbon Pricing Interview with Michael Green Achieving Zero Waste in San Francisco: Successes and Challenges Interview with Michael J. Sangiacomo Journal of International Affairs Current Issue Urbanization and International Affairs Vol. 74, No. 1 - Fall/Winter Facebook Twitter Email Subscribe Popular Emerging markets and the hiking cycle: this time, really, it may be different Jorge Mariscal & Bret Rosen The Russia-Ukraine War as a Regressive Global Tax: The Effect of Commodity Terms of Trade on Developing Economies Benjamin Mandel Agreements, Aggression, and Embargoes: Parallels from the Past to Russia and Ukraine John Golden Non-Refoulement: A Human Rights Perspective on Environmental Migration from Small Island Developing States Shaindl Keshen & Steven Lazickas About Subscribe Submissions Advertising Contact Subscribe to our mailing list © Copyright 2018, Journal of International Affairs. All rights reserved. Site by Div.