Skip to content Florida State University FSU | Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship Navigation Donate Search FSU Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation Home About Jim Moran College Dean Faculty and Staff Entrepreneurs in Residence Education Fellows Jim Moran By-Laws Strategic Plan Academics Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Advising Commercial Entrepreneurship STEM Entrepreneurship Retail Entrepreneurship Textile Testing Lab Minors Graduate Programs Entrepreneurship and Innovation Learning Community Current Students Internships Internship Team Commercial & Social Internships Retail Internships STEM Internships Student Testimonials Scholarships Panama City Campus Course Catalog Center for Student Engagement Overview 7 Under 30 Greenhouse Incubator Current Residents Alumni InNOLEvation™ Challenge Timeline Judging Criteria Guidelines and Requirements Resources Winners InNOLEvation™ Project Jim Moran Micro Grants 1 Million Cups Student Organizations Competitions Contact Us Student Stories Connect Join Our Alumni Network Get Involved News Press Releases Student News Related Articles Jim Moran College and Building Newsletter Podcast Donate Donate Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship The Nation’s First Stand-Alone Entrepreneurship College at a Public University Home About Jim Moran College Dean Faculty and Staff Entrepreneurs in Residence Education Fellows Jim Moran By-Laws Strategic Plan Academics Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Advising Commercial Entrepreneurship STEM Entrepreneurship Retail Entrepreneurship Textile Testing Lab Minors Graduate Programs Entrepreneurship and Innovation Learning Community Current Students Internships Internship Team Commercial & Social Internships Retail Internships STEM Internships Student Testimonials Scholarships Panama City Campus Course Catalog Center for Student Engagement Overview 7 Under 30 Greenhouse Incubator Current Residents Alumni InNOLEvation™ Challenge Timeline Judging Criteria Guidelines and Requirements Resources Winners InNOLEvation™ Project Jim Moran Micro Grants 1 Million Cups Student Organizations Competitions Contact Us Student Stories Connect Join Our Alumni Network Get Involved News Press Releases Student News Related Articles Jim Moran College and Building Newsletter Podcast Donate Donate Official University COVID-19 Updates JMC High School Summer Camp! The Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship offers an Entrepreneurship Summer Camp where high school juniors and seniors attend camp for one week with the college! Limited spots available. LEARN MORE! Florida State Podcast of Entrepreneurship and Innovation You don't want to miss this! The students and faculty of the Jim Moran College host their very own podcast, called Florida State Podcast of Entrepreneurship and Innovation. Like, follow, and subscribe today! LISTEN NOW! Congrats to Manser Edbrooke Technology! Manser Edbrooke Technology, a JMC Greenhouse Incubator participant, is a finalist for the e-Fest Competition. The competition will be held April 28 - 30th. Learn more about the competition and the top 25 finalists below! READ MORE HERE! Graduate Programs in the College of Entrepreneurship The JMC offers four master's programs! We have our face-to-face programs in Textiles and Apparel Entrepreneurship and Product Development, and two online graduate majors in Hospitality Entrepreneurship and Social and Sustainable Enterprises! LEARN MORE! Annual Entrepreneurship Expo on Landis Jim Moran College’s expo draws the largest group of student entrepreneurs since the first one held 10 years ago. The annual Entrepreneurship Expo is chance for the Jim Moran College students at FSU to showcase their business, products and service to the community. LEARN MORE! Getting on Shark Tank is hard to do. But keeping your foot on the gas and carrying that continued success further is even harder. We are proud to share that Florida State University Alumni, Michael Benarde & his sister Shirah, Founders of NightCap Drink Spiking Prevention, have been selected for an update segment on Shark Tank, which aired April 1st at 8PM EST! LEARN MORE LEARN MORE Getting on Shark Tank is hard to do. But keeping your foot on the gas and carrying that continued success further is even harder. We are proud to share that Florida State University Alumni, Michael Benarde & his sister Shirah, Founders of NightCap Drink Spiking Prevention, have been selected for an update segment on Shark Tank, which aired April 1st at 8PM EST! LEARN MORE LEARN MORE Florida State University’s Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship offers four master’s programs! We have our face-to-face programs in Textiles and Apparel Entrepreneurship and Product Development, and two online graduate majors in Hospitality Entrepreneurship and Social and Sustainable Enterprises! LEARN MORE Florida State University’s Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship offers four master’s programs! We have our face-to-face programs in Textiles and Apparel Entrepreneurship and Product Development, and two online graduate majors in Hospitality Entrepreneurship and Social and Sustainable Enterprises! LEARN MORE Would you like to contribute to the Jim Moran College? Donations are a great asset to building our programs for FSU students! Make your contribution today! Donate Now News & Events Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship to honor ‘7 Under 30’ The Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship at Florida State University will honor seven graduates who are making their mark as entrepreneurs at its 10th annual “7 Under 30” event. The event is being… Read More NASA program will give FSU students access to cutting-edge technology patents In addition to being the world’s leading space agency, NASA owns about 1,600 technological patents. Florida State University’s Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship will have access to all of those… Read More National Women in Entrepreneurship Week Networking Event … Read More Read All News Phone: 850-644-7158 Email: info@jimmorancollege.fsu.edu Mailing Addresses: Campus: Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship, 644 West Call Street, P.O. Box 3061115, Tallahassee, FL 32306-1115 Downtown: Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship, 111 South Monroe Street, Tallahassee, FL 32301-1110 JMC Faculty & Staff Resources Jim Moran College on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media