Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Jim Moran Institute for Global Entrepreneurship Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services About Us About The Jim Moran Institute Advisory Board Faculty & Staff Jim Moran Programs Small Business Executive Program Nonprofit Executive Program CEO Peer2Peer Groups Small Business Leadership Conference Seminole 100 Expert Speaker Series EBV Accelerate EBV Families Jim Moran Scholars RISE Resources AERO COVID-19 Resources Jim Moran Institute Fellows Jim Moran Professors Resource Champions Research Offices Administrative Office Jacksonville Tallahassee Tampa Bay South Florida Give Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Jim Moran Institute for Global Entrepreneurship Toggle navigation About Us About The Jim Moran Institute Advisory Board Faculty & Staff Jim Moran Programs Small Business Executive Program Nonprofit Executive Program CEO Peer2Peer Groups Small Business Leadership Conference Seminole 100 Expert Speaker Series EBV Accelerate EBV Families Jim Moran Scholars RISE Resources AERO COVID-19 Resources Jim Moran Institute Fellows Jim Moran Professors Resource Champions Research Offices Administrative Office Jacksonville Tallahassee Tampa Bay South Florida Give Visit the College of Business homepage Applications Open for Spring 2023 South Florida Executive Programs Applications are now being accepted for The Jim Moran Institute's Spring 2023 Small Business Executive Program (SBEP) and Nonprofit Executive Program (NPEP) in South Florida. Applications will close on September 30. APPLY NOW Applications Open for Tallahassee Small Business Executive Program Applications are now being accepted for The Jim Moran Institute's Fall 2022 Small Business Executive Program (SBEP) in Tallahassee. Applications will close on Tuesday, July 5. APPLY NOW Applications Open for Jacksonville Small Business & Nonprofit Executive Programs The Jim Moran Institute is accepting applications for its Fall 2022 Small Business Executive Program (SBEP) and Nonprofit Executive Program (NPEP) in Jacksonville. Offered at no cost to participants, the application deadline is Tuesday, July 5. APPLY NOW Applications Open for Tampa Bay Small Business Executive Program in St. Petersburg The Jim Moran Institute is accepting applications for its Fall 2022 Small Business Executive Program (SBEP) in Jacksonville. Offered at no cost to participants, the application deadline is Sunday, August 7th. APPLY NOW Tickets Now Available for Jacksonville Expert Speaker Series Reserve your seat now for the Jim Moran Institute's May 25th Expert Speaker Series in Jacksonville, featuring Emergency Management and Safety Solutions Founder, Regina Phelps. Click below to learn more. GET TICKETS Applications Open for Inaugural Orlando Small Business Executive Program The Jim Moran Institute announced it will now offer its Small Business Executive Program (SBEP) in Orlando. Applications for the inaugural class of the Orlando SBEP are open from now through Wednesday, June 1. APPLY NOW The Jim Moran Institute for Global Entrepreneurship, part of FSU’s College of Business, is committed to cultivating a culture of inclusion and connectedness. We aim to create a workplace that celebrates the diversity of our staff, faculty and the communities we serve. Learn more about the Jim Moran Institute’s position by visiting the FSU College of Business website HERE. OUR MISSION The Jim Moran Institute for Global Entrepreneurship cultivates, trains and inspires entrepreneurial leaders through world-class executive education, applied training, public recognition and leading-edge research. Cultivate. Our Small Business Executive Program will have you emerge a stronger leader, implement best-practice management, and turn challenges into a strategic advantage. LEARN MORE Train. The Nonprofit Executive Program is designed to assess your organization's position, develop long-term strategies, and create a practical action plan that will help your organization move forward. LEARN MORE Inspire. Exclusive to presidents and owners of established businesses, our CEO Peer2Peer Groups provide an avenue for sharing insights about challenging situations and solutions to problems with peers. LEARN MORE Collaboration. "The collaboration, structure and professionalism between the participants, sessions and speakers in the Small Business Executive Program is fantastic." - Nick Boariu, Founder & COO Clothes Bin A Common Goal. "The Small Business Executive Program is simply amazing. You are surrounded by like-minded individuals all working towards a common goal, which is running and sustaining your small business." - Mario Francis, Co-Founder & Operating Partner TruWaste Cleaning Solutions home Email and Newsletter To stay connected, please click the mailing list below you would like to be subscribed to: Jacksonville | Orlando | South Florida | Tallahassee | Tampa Bay title-inside title-centered 2 News & Events Applications Open for Spring 2023 South Florida Executive Programs The Jim Moran Institute is accepting applications for its Spring 2023 Small Business Executive Program (SBEP) and Nonprofit Executive Program held in South Florida. Offered at no cost to participants, the application deadline is Friday, September 30. Jim Moran Institute Jacksonville Office Named SBA North Florida Community Partner of the Year The Jim Moran Institute's Jacksonville office was recently named U.S. Small Business Administration's North Florida District Community Partner of the Year. Applications Open for Tallahassee Small Business Executive Program The Jim Moran Institute is accepting applications for its Fall 2022 Small Business Executive Program (SBEP) held in Tallahassee. Offered at no cost to participants, the application deadline is Tuesday, July 5th. View full calendar Read All News Office Location: 111 South Monroe Street, Tallahassee, FL 32301-1536 | Phone: 850-644-3372 | Dept. Hours: 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Mailing Address: Jim Moran Institute for Global Entrepreneurship, P.O. Box 3061485, Tallahassee, FL, 32306-1485 Jim Moran Institute on Social Media Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Flickr LinkedIn © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media