Jobs at the University of Cincinnati Press Tab to Move to Skip to Content Link Skip to main content Language English (United States) Sign In To My Profile Language English (United States) Sign In To My Profile Home About UC Vision Benefits Diversity How To Apply View All Jobs Sign In To My Profile Join Talent Community Explore a career with the University of Cincinnati UC is a great place to work! That means we get hundreds of job applications daily - and our applications are not screened by a computer. To streamline our application process we use an online Career Site that allows job seekers to apply for multiple jobs with only one account. Our Career Site also allows you to set up helpful Job Alerts and to get updates anytime and anywhere. As one of the largest employers in the Cincinnati area, there are many opportunities at UC in our colleges, departments, and administrative areas for faculty, staff, and students. There are a few jobs that are not hired through UC. Please contact these employers directly for more information about the following positions at UC: Food Service - All food service positions are hired via Aramark - this includes concessions for our athletic events Shuttle Drivers - Our shuttle drivers are hired via Croswell transportation services Custodial - Our custodial staff are hired by Eastern Personnel Keep In Mind Hiring at UC is handled by the individual college or department - they evaluate and select their own candidates and new hires. The hiring process and timeline is set by the hiring department and varies by area and position. You can access your Profile at any time to see the progress of your application by logging into your account. Each position has minimum qualifications that must be met by an applicant in order to be considered. Meeting these qualifications does not guarantee an interview as there are many additional requirements considered. The Diversity and Inclusion statement provided by the applicant is an important part of our application process. Applications without this statement, or any other required documents as indicated in the job posting, are considered incomplete and will not be reviewed. Please make sure you closely follow the directions in the job posting. If you are currently a UC employee (faculty, adjunct, or staff), please use the internal application portal here > SuccessFactors. If you need accommodations to assist with the application process, please contact us at 513-556-6381. Computers are available in Human Resources Monday through Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm if you need access to a computer. Additional Assistance How To Apply If you are a current UC employee, please apply for jobs using the internal SuccessFactors portal. There are two steps to apply for a job: 1) Creating your Profile, and 2) Completing an Application. Your Profile Once you complete a Profile you will always use that same profile to apply to many jobs. Through your Profile you can also set up Job Alerts to let you know when new positions become available and track the progress of your application. Current UC Employees - Do Not Create An External Account > Use Your Internal SuccessFactors Login! UC Students - Do Not Use Your UC Email Address To Create An Account! Please do not create more than one Profile - if you can't remember your password you can request it within the system. Use a personal email address for your user name - your user name cannot be changed so use one you will remember. Do not use your work email for a user name or for email notifications - if you leave that job you will not be able to retrieve a forgotten password and will lose access to your Profile. You can change your contact email address for notifications at any time - changing your notification email does NOT change your login email (your login email never changes). Create your Profile using your legal name as it appears on your identification. Upload your resume BEFORE you make changes to the employment history in your Profile. This will make the process quicker and eliminate additional typing. Be sure to check the data to make sure it pulls over from your resume correctly. Your Application If interested in applying for a job, a separate application is created for each job using the same Profile. Upload a specific resume or cover letter to the job application - not the Profile. Any additional documents requested in the job posting can be attached in the 'Additional Documents' section within the application. Don't submit your application until all attachments are uploaded. You can SAVE your application and return to complete later, but remember to SUBMIT once you are done. Make sure the name you use on your application matches your employment identification. The Talent Acquisition team is available to help answer general questions about employment and assist with technical issues. Need Technical Help? UC Website View All Jobs Equal Opportunity Right To Privacy Clery Notices Help © Copyright 2019 University of Cincinnati