Skip to Main Content Experience Dartmouth - Apply Here! Toggle navigation Home Search Jobs Log In /Create Account Help Dartmouth embraces diverse, energetic, and talented people who are driven to grow and succeed. Influenced by its distinctive New England setting and heritage, Dartmouth embodies a pioneering commitment to “making a difference” in a community whose members work together to create knowledge, connect to the world, and further their sense of identity and direction. Embrace an environment that inspires discovery and encourages collaboration. You will find open spaces, open doors, and open minds. Staff Faculty Student Temporary About Dartmouth Inclusive Excellence Human Resources Benefits Additional Resources Dartmouth's Talent Acquisition Department Moving Up Program Faculty and staff are our most valuable asset. The ability to be successful and make an immediate impact in a new position can be directly affected by the ability to relocate quickly. Accessibility Disabilities are not considered in admission or employment decisions, and inquiries about accessibility assistance are welcomed. Institutional Diversity & Equity The Office of Institutional Diversity creates partnerships with offices and individuals across the institution to provide resources that promote access, respect, and community for all. Employee Resource Networks Dartmouth College provides institutional support for the Employee Resource Networks at Dartmouth. Dartmouth Real Estate Employee Rentals Dartmouth College owns and manages 540 on- and off-campus rental housing units within two miles of campus. Accommodations range from studio apartments to single-family homes. Clery Act Notification to prospective employees Dartmouth College prepares an annual Security and Fire Safety Report which is available to all current and prospective employees and students. You can obtain a copy of this report by contacting the Director of Safety and Security and the College Proctor at 603-646-4000 or by accessing the website. Notice of Nondiscrimination Dartmouth is dedicated to establishing and maintaining a safe and nondiscriminatory learning, living, and working environment in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity. Ban the Box On July 1, 2016 Dartmouth College made the decision to follow Vermont legislation prohibiting employers from asking criminal history questions on an initial employment application form. This decision was made to protect prospective employees convicted of a crime from automatic disqualification during the selection process. Dartmouth College is an E-Verify Employer E-Verify English E-Verify Spanish Poster-Right to Work English Poster-Right to Work Spanish Dartmouth College conducts background checks The Hanover Inn is part of Dartmouth College. To apply for positions at the Inn, click here. Dartmouth College Office of Human Resources | 7 Lebanon Street Suite 203 | Hanover, NH 03755 | Ph 603.646.3411 | jobs@dartmouth.edu To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.