Careers at UCF Menu Login Configure Job Alerts Job Search Refine Your Search Work type Administrative & Professional 0 Faculty 33 OPS (Temporary) 0 Postdoctoral Associate 0 USPS (Staff) 0 Locations Arecibo 0 Main Campus (Orlando) 29 Main Off Campus 0 UCF Cocoa 1 UCF Daytona Beach 0 UCF Downtown Orlando 1 UCF HSC at Lake Nona 2 UCF Rosen Col - Universal Blvd 0 UCF Sanford/Lake Mary 1 UCF Valencia West 1 Categories Categories Academic Advising/Support 0 Administrative/Clerical Support 0 Administrative/Professional 0 Admissions/Financial Aid/Enrollment 0 Advancement 0 Arts & Humanities 2 Business Administration 1 Communications/Public Relations/Marketing 0 Education & Community Innovation 2 Educational/Instructional 1 Engineering/Computer Science 9 Executive/Director/Management 0 Facilities/Skilled Trades/Grounds Services 0 Financial/Accounting 0 Graduate Studies 0 Health Professions & Sciences 7 Human Resources 0 Information Systems/Technology 0 Library/Physical/Social Science 2 Medicine 2 Nursing 0 Optics & Photonics 0 Other 1 President's Division 0 Provost's Office 0 Research/Grants 2 Rosen College of Hospitality Management 0 Sciences 8 Student Development/Enrollment Services 0 Undergraduate Studies 1 Make A Greater Impact University of Central Florida Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Great, we can send you jobs like this, if this is your first time signing up, please check your inbox to confirm your subscription. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position Location Opens Closes Program Director, FSEC K-12 Energy Education Program UCF Cocoa May 27, 2022 June 16, 2022 The Florida Solar Energy Center (FSEC) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) is currently seeking a program director, Energy Education, to lead Florida's energy research institute K-12 education programs. Professor, Finance Main Campus (Orlando) May 27, 2022 June 23, 2022 The University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a tenured professor in the College of Business Administration’s Department of Finance. Assistant or Associate Professor, I/O Psychology Main Campus (Orlando) May 27, 2022 June 30, 2022 The Department of Psychology at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for three nine-month positions, one at the early, tenure-earning assistant professor level and another at the advanced, tenure-earning assistant professor or early, tenured associate professor level, anticipated to begin in August of 2022. The third position is contingent upon budget. Visiting Instructor or Lecturer, Early Childhood Development and Education Main Campus (Orlando) May 27, 2022 June 30, 2022 The School of Teacher Education in the College of Community Innovation and Education at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applicants for a visiting instructor or lecturer position in Early Childhood Development and Education. Instructor or Lecturer of Technical Communication Main Campus (Orlando) May 20, 2022 June 16, 2022 The Department of English at the College of Arts and Humanities (CAH), invites applications for an instructor or lecturer of Technical Communication. Assistant or Associate Professor, Emerging Media - Animation Main Campus (Orlando) May 20, 2022 June 16, 2022 The School of Visual Arts and Design (SVAD), in the College of Arts and Humanities (CAH), at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a nine-month, tenure-earning assistant professor or tenured associate professor position. Primary Care Physician (Clinical Assistant, Associate, or Professor of Medicine) UCF HSC at Lake Nona May 13, 2022 The UCF College of Medicine Faculty Practice at UCF Health in Orlando, FL is seeking three (3) full-time physicians in Internal Medicine or Family Medicine to join an expanding multi-specialty academic practice. Population Health Sciences Faculty (Assistant or Associate Professor of Medicine) UCF HSC at Lake Nona May 13, 2022 June 09, 2022 The University of Central Florida (UCF), College of Medicine is seeking applicants for two tenure-earning assistant professor or tenured associate professor positions within our Department of Population Health Sciences. Lecturer or Associate Lecturer and Assistant Director, Interdisciplinary Studies Main Campus (Orlando) May 13, 2022 June 09, 2022 The College of Undergraduate Studies is pleased to invite applications from the UCF community for the position of assistant director for Interdisciplinary Studies to support and serve as a member of the college's leadership team. Assistant, Associate or Senior Instructional Designer Main Campus (Orlando) May 13, 2022 June 09, 2022 The Center for Distributed Learning (CDL) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) is recruiting for a full-time, non-tenure track, 12-month position as instructional designer (ID). Associate Librarian or Librarian and Associate Dean, Academic Engagement Main Campus (Orlando) May 13, 2022 June 30, 2022 The University of Central Florida (UCF) Libraries seeks a curious, dynamic, and strategic leader to serve as the associate dean for Academic Engagement. Instructor or Lecturer, Film Main Campus (Orlando) May 06, 2022 The Nicholson School of Communication and Media (NSCM) in the College of Sciences at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a nine-month, non-tenure earning instructor or lecturer position anticipated to begin August 2022. Instructor or Lecturer, Mass Media Main Campus (Orlando) May 06, 2022 The Nicholson School of Communication and Media (NSCM) in the College of Sciences at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a 9-month, non-tenure earning instructor or lecturer in Mass Media, anticipated to begin August 2022. Instructor or Lecturer, Computer Science and Information Technology Main Campus (Orlando) April 29, 2022 June 23, 2022 The Department of Computer Science (CS) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) is seeking an outstanding candidate for an instructor or lecturer position to teach computer science or information technology courses. Lecturer, Health Sciences (Health and Human Wellness) Main Campus (Orlando) April 22, 2022 The Department of Health Sciences in the College of Health Professions and Sciences (CHPS) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a 9-month, non-tenure earning lecturer position. Candidates with expertise in human health and wellness, human research studies, and a strong desire and ability to mentor undergraduate students for career/employment readiness are encouraged to apply. Lecturer, Health Sciences (Human Nutrition) Main Campus (Orlando) April 22, 2022 The Department of Health Sciences in the College of Health Professions and Sciences (CHPS) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a 9-month, non-tenure earning lecturer position. Candidates with expertise in human nutrition, human research studies, and a strong desire and ability to mentor undergraduate students for career/employment readiness are encouraged to apply. Lecturer, Health Sciences (Human Pathophysiology/Pathobiology) Main Campus (Orlando) April 22, 2022 The Department of Health Sciences in the College of Health Professions and Sciences (CHPS) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a 9-month, non-tenure earning lecturer position. Candidates with expertise in human pathophysiology/pathobiology are encouraged to apply. Associate Librarian or Librarian and Department Head, Acquisitions and Collection Services Main Campus (Orlando) April 22, 2022 June 16, 2022 The University of Central Florida (UCF) Libraries, located in Orlando, seeks an experienced and innovative department head of Acquisitions and Collection Services to provide vision and leadership for the department. Lecturer, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Main Campus (Orlando) April 15, 2022 June 02, 2022 The Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) has an opening for a 9-month, non-tenure earning, lecturer position. Lecturer, Psychology Main Campus (Orlando), UCF Valencia West, UCF Sanford/Lake Mary April 15, 2022 June 09, 2022 The Psychology Department at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for up to three (3) nine-month, non-tenure earning lecturer positions that will support our Psychology B.S. program. More Jobs 13 Featured Jobs Loading... Current opportunities Position Location Opens Closes Program Director, FSEC K-12 Energy Education Program UCF Cocoa May 27, 2022 June 16, 2022 The Florida Solar Energy Center (FSEC) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) is currently seeking a program director, Energy Education, to lead Florida's energy research institute K-12 education programs. Professor, Finance Main Campus (Orlando) May 27, 2022 June 23, 2022 The University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a tenured professor in the College of Business Administration’s Department of Finance. Assistant or Associate Professor, I/O Psychology Main Campus (Orlando) May 27, 2022 June 30, 2022 The Department of Psychology at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for three nine-month positions, one at the early, tenure-earning assistant professor level and another at the advanced, tenure-earning assistant professor or early, tenured associate professor level, anticipated to begin in August of 2022. The third position is contingent upon budget. Visiting Instructor or Lecturer, Early Childhood Development and Education Main Campus (Orlando) May 27, 2022 June 30, 2022 The School of Teacher Education in the College of Community Innovation and Education at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applicants for a visiting instructor or lecturer position in Early Childhood Development and Education. Instructor or Lecturer of Technical Communication Main Campus (Orlando) May 20, 2022 June 16, 2022 The Department of English at the College of Arts and Humanities (CAH), invites applications for an instructor or lecturer of Technical Communication. Assistant or Associate Professor, Emerging Media - Animation Main Campus (Orlando) May 20, 2022 June 16, 2022 The School of Visual Arts and Design (SVAD), in the College of Arts and Humanities (CAH), at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a nine-month, tenure-earning assistant professor or tenured associate professor position. Primary Care Physician (Clinical Assistant, Associate, or Professor of Medicine) UCF HSC at Lake Nona May 13, 2022 The UCF College of Medicine Faculty Practice at UCF Health in Orlando, FL is seeking three (3) full-time physicians in Internal Medicine or Family Medicine to join an expanding multi-specialty academic practice. Population Health Sciences Faculty (Assistant or Associate Professor of Medicine) UCF HSC at Lake Nona May 13, 2022 June 09, 2022 The University of Central Florida (UCF), College of Medicine is seeking applicants for two tenure-earning assistant professor or tenured associate professor positions within our Department of Population Health Sciences. Lecturer or Associate Lecturer and Assistant Director, Interdisciplinary Studies Main Campus (Orlando) May 13, 2022 June 09, 2022 The College of Undergraduate Studies is pleased to invite applications from the UCF community for the position of assistant director for Interdisciplinary Studies to support and serve as a member of the college's leadership team. Assistant, Associate or Senior Instructional Designer Main Campus (Orlando) May 13, 2022 June 09, 2022 The Center for Distributed Learning (CDL) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) is recruiting for a full-time, non-tenure track, 12-month position as instructional designer (ID). Associate Librarian or Librarian and Associate Dean, Academic Engagement Main Campus (Orlando) May 13, 2022 June 30, 2022 The University of Central Florida (UCF) Libraries seeks a curious, dynamic, and strategic leader to serve as the associate dean for Academic Engagement. Instructor or Lecturer, Film Main Campus (Orlando) May 06, 2022 The Nicholson School of Communication and Media (NSCM) in the College of Sciences at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a nine-month, non-tenure earning instructor or lecturer position anticipated to begin August 2022. Instructor or Lecturer, Mass Media Main Campus (Orlando) May 06, 2022 The Nicholson School of Communication and Media (NSCM) in the College of Sciences at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a 9-month, non-tenure earning instructor or lecturer in Mass Media, anticipated to begin August 2022. Instructor or Lecturer, Computer Science and Information Technology Main Campus (Orlando) April 29, 2022 June 23, 2022 The Department of Computer Science (CS) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) is seeking an outstanding candidate for an instructor or lecturer position to teach computer science or information technology courses. Lecturer, Health Sciences (Health and Human Wellness) Main Campus (Orlando) April 22, 2022 The Department of Health Sciences in the College of Health Professions and Sciences (CHPS) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a 9-month, non-tenure earning lecturer position. Candidates with expertise in human health and wellness, human research studies, and a strong desire and ability to mentor undergraduate students for career/employment readiness are encouraged to apply. Lecturer, Health Sciences (Human Nutrition) Main Campus (Orlando) April 22, 2022 The Department of Health Sciences in the College of Health Professions and Sciences (CHPS) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a 9-month, non-tenure earning lecturer position. Candidates with expertise in human nutrition, human research studies, and a strong desire and ability to mentor undergraduate students for career/employment readiness are encouraged to apply. Lecturer, Health Sciences (Human Pathophysiology/Pathobiology) Main Campus (Orlando) April 22, 2022 The Department of Health Sciences in the College of Health Professions and Sciences (CHPS) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for a 9-month, non-tenure earning lecturer position. Candidates with expertise in human pathophysiology/pathobiology are encouraged to apply. Associate Librarian or Librarian and Department Head, Acquisitions and Collection Services Main Campus (Orlando) April 22, 2022 June 16, 2022 The University of Central Florida (UCF) Libraries, located in Orlando, seeks an experienced and innovative department head of Acquisitions and Collection Services to provide vision and leadership for the department. Lecturer, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Main Campus (Orlando) April 15, 2022 June 02, 2022 The Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE) at the University of Central Florida (UCF) has an opening for a 9-month, non-tenure earning, lecturer position. Lecturer, Psychology Main Campus (Orlando), UCF Valencia West, UCF Sanford/Lake Mary April 15, 2022 June 09, 2022 The Psychology Department at the University of Central Florida (UCF) invites applications for up to three (3) nine-month, non-tenure earning lecturer positions that will support our Psychology B.S. program. More Jobs 13 Powered by PageUp Resources Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Tutorial E-verify Veteran’s Preference The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act Requests for Accommodations UCF HR Home Search Committee Public Meeting Notices Equal Opportunity Employer As an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, UCF encourages all qualified applicants to apply, including women, veterans, individuals with disabilities, and members of traditionally underrepresented populations. UCF's Equal Opportunity Statement can be viewed at: http://www.oie.ucf.edu/documents/PresidentsStatement.pdf. As a Florida public university, UCF makes all application materials and selection procedures available to the public upon request. Resources Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Tutorial E-verify Veteran’s Preference The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act Requests for Accommodations UCF HR Home Search Committee Public Meeting Notices Equal Opportunity Employer The University of Central Florida is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, race, color, religion, national origin, disability, protected Veteran status, age, or any other characteristic protected by law. UCF's Equal Opportunity Statement can be viewed at: http://www.oie.ucf.edu/documents/PresidentsStatement.pdf. As a Florida public university, UCF makes all application materials and selection procedures available to the public upon request. The UCF's affirmative action plans for qualified individuals with disabilities and protected Veterans are available for inspection in the Office for Institutional Equity, Monday through Friday, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., upon request. University of Central Florida A-Z Index| About UCF| Contact UCF| Privacy Policy| Online Degrees| Pegasus| Policies| Public Records| Regulations| UCF News| 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida