Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation Home Search Jobs Log In /Create Account Help Applicant FAQ HR Homepage Security report Title IX About Us If you are using Internet Explorer and experiencing errors on this page, please use a different browser. For the most current COVID-19 campus information, please visit our website As a Villanova University employee you will be part of a dynamic community where each individual and their contributions are valued. You’ll experience the rewards of being on a college campus, and a myriad of opportunities to help create a positive impact on our students’ educational experiences. Working at Villanova will give you the opportunity to contribute to our mission and values, while working with some of the most experienced educators and staff in the country. Faculty Positions Staff Positions Student Positions Temporary Positions Work @ VU Office of the Provost Benefits Compensation University Mission Villanova University, a co-educational Roman Catholic institution, was founded by the Order of Saint Augustine in 1842 in Villanova, Pennsylvania. A premier institution of higher education, Villanova provides a comprehensive education rooted in the liberal arts; a shared commitment to the Augustinian ideals of truth, unity and love; and a community dedicated to service to others. The University community welcomes and respects members of all faiths who seek to nurture a concern for the common good and who share an enthusiasm for the challenge of responsible and productive citizenship in order to build a just and peaceful world. EEO Villanova is an equal employment/affirmative action employer. Villanova University is committed to providing leadership in the attainment of equal employment for all individuals. It is the policy and practice of Villanova University to recruit and select applicants on the basis of their qualifications and abilities. This effort is in compliance with all federal and state laws, including Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Educational Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1975, Executive Order 11246, and the Americans with Disabilities Act. Transportation Villanova University is easily accessible by train, plane, car or regional public transportation, with two train stations (one for the Norristown High Speed Line and one for the Paoli/Thorndale line) right on campus, and a bus (105) that stops at the main campus entrance. To view all your public transportation options or to print a complete schedule, visit SEPTA. Contact Us Our staff is committed to supporting the home and professional lives of our faculty and staff, offering opportunities for personal development and advancement, and ensuring fairness and consistency in the application of policies and procedures. If you have any questions regarding your employment, please feel free to contact us: Email: hr@villanova.edu, Phone: 610-519-7900 © 1990-2022 Villanova University. All Rights Reserved. 800 Lancaster Avenue · Villanova, PA 19085 · (610) 519-6000 · Privacy & Security Return to the Top    Villanova University To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.