Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Jobs Search Home UCR Jobs How to Apply My Account Help UC Systemwide Jobs Working At UCR Breadcrumb Why Work At UCR? US News ranked UCR as the number 35 public university in the U.S. – it is the premier research university in Inland Southern California and one of its largest employers. UCR is part of the world renowned and prestigious University of California (UC) system. UC provides exceptional benefits in addition to the special intellectual and cultural advantages of being a member of the UC Community. UCR recognizes the importance of enabling employees to explore engaging career opportunities through education, development, leadership programs and promotional opportunities; enjoy a variety of campus events; live a healthy lifestyle with wellness resources and an on-site Recreation Center; strive for work-life balance through policy, programs and an on-site Child Development Center; and provide ample opportunity to network, engage and connect with fellow employees. Faculty and staff can keep up to date on the UCR news and happenings via the online news outlet, Inside UCR as well as the interesting cultural opportunities that exist in Riverside County. College to Career Program Are you graduating soon and wondering what to do next – look no further than UCR! The Talent Acquisition and Diversity Outreach team has launched their College to Careers program. This program helps incoming and recent graduates learn about, and prepare for career opportunities available at UCR. Graduate students are encouraged to apply for open jobs on campus and begin their UCR careers. For more program information, please visit the College to Career Program webpage. Featured Jobs Chief Campus Counsel Communications & Events Manager Senior Human Resources Generalist Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Training Coordinator Media Communication Specialist Library Safety Officer Director – Campus Advocacy, Resource & Education (CARE) Associate Director in CNAS Personnel Service Center UCR Jobs How to Apply Benefits of Working at UCR Benefits of Working at UCR UC Riverside offers many employee benefits, ranging from health and life insurance to pensions and retirement savings. A central human resources organization supports UC Riverside employees, offering subject matter experts and online resources for each. Benefits Principles of Community Diversity and Inclusion UCR strives to accommodate applicants with disabilities. In the event that your disability prevents you from completing the online application process, please contact us so that we can provide options to assist you in completing the application process. Please contact disabilitymanagement@ucr.edu or (951) 827-2561 for assistance. The University of California is an Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action Employer with a strong institutional commitment to the achievement of excellence and diversity among its faculty and staff. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law. For more information about your EEO rights as an applicant, please review the EEO is the Law Poster the EEO is the Law Poster - Supplement, the Pay Transparency Nondiscrimination Provision poster, and the Non-discrimination Provision. Campus Security and Crime Report. The "Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act," commonly referred to as the "Clery Act," requires UCR (as an institution of higher education receiving federal financial aid) to report specified crime statistics on college campuses and to provide other safety and crime information to all current and prospective students and employees. The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available on the Chief Compliance Office website. If you would like a paper copy of the Report, you may contact the Clery Coordinator via email at clery@ucr.edu or by phone at (951) 827-6223. UCR is a smoke/tobacco/vape-free campus. For more information about the policy or cessation resources, please visit the UCR Smoke/Tobacco Free webpage. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Human Resources 1201 University Ave., Suite 208 Riverside, CA 92507 email: JobsHelp@ucr.edu Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel