Jobs at the University of Cincinnati Press Tab to Move to Skip to Content Link Skip to main content Language English (United States) Sign In To My Profile Language English (United States) Sign In To My Profile Home About UC Vision Benefits Diversity How To Apply View All Jobs Sign In To My Profile Join Talent Community ABOUT UC The University of Cincinnati, founded in 1819, is a premier, public, urban research university located in the heart of Cincinnati, Ohio. The University boasts a student body of over 43,000 enrolled in over 370 programs of study and is the region’s largest employer with over 15,000 faculty, staff and student workers. The University of Cincinnati embraces diversity and inclusion as core values and seeks to empower all members of the University community. The University of Cincinnati is ranked as one of America's top 26 public research universities by the National Science Foundation. U.S. News has ranked UC in the Top Tier of America's Best Colleges. The Chronicle of Higher Education calls UC a "research heavyweight." Forbes, Delta Sky and Travel + Leisure magazines have named UC one of the most beautiful campuses. UC has consistently been named a “green university” by Princeton Review. The University of Cincinnati also has two regional campuses in the Tri-State area. UC Blue Ash is the third-largest college (by enrollment) in the University of Cincinnati. The college began in 1967 and is located on 135 wooded acres in north-eastern Cincinnati and has offered high-quality, affordable UC education for the past 47 years with over 20,000 alumni. UC Blue Ash offers over 39 Associate degree programs, one Bachelor degree in Radiation Science, as well as six Certificate programs. UC Clermont College began offering classes in 1972 and is located 30 miles east of the University of Cincinnati in Batavia Ohio offering 35 Associate degree programs, one Bachelor degree program and 14 Certificate programs on 91.2 acres. UC East began in fall of 2010 in the former Ford plant and is home to UC Clermont College’s Allied Health programs. UC’s College of Nursing offers a Bachelor of Science in Nursing and the College of Education, Criminal Justice and Human Services offers a Bachelor degree in both Criminal Justice and Paralegal studies at this location as well. UC Website View All Jobs Equal Opportunity Right To Privacy Clery Notices Help © Copyright 2019 University of Cincinnati