Jobs at the University of Cincinnati Press Tab to Move to Skip to Content Link Skip to main content Language English (United States) Sign In To My Profile Language English (United States) Sign In To My Profile Home About UC Vision Benefits Diversity How To Apply View All Jobs Sign In To My Profile Join Talent Community Careers Success Starts Here! Aspire to achieve with a career serving the people of our nation and the world at our public, urban, research University. Learn More University of Cincinnati entrance lit up at night Benefits We Value Our Employees! We offer competitive compensation and a comprehensive benefits package that includes healthcare insurance and generous time off work. Learn More The student union, Tangeman University Center or TUC, on UC's main campus Diversity Diversity Is One Of Our Strengths! A key to our success, diversity and inclusion enriches our performance and makes us a great place to work and grow. Learn More Bronze statue of UC Bearcat being hugged by Bearcat mascot Vision Next. Lives. Here. Our strategic direction is focused on leading urban public universities into a new era of innovation and impact. Learn More Aerial photo of UC main campus overlooking McMicken Hall and TUC Current Employees Apply Here Search by Keyword Show More Options Loading... Job Category All Facility All Department All Clear FACULTY UC is a prominent research one institution that offers opportunities to conduct valuable research in a collegial environment. This urban university boasts a 16/1 student/faculty ratio and offers instruction using traditional classroom, E-learning and distance learning methods. Assignments are enhanced by a generous benefit package for faculty, spouse or domestic partner and dependents, including medical, dental, life insurance and tuition remission. Faculty STAFF University of Cincinnati offers exciting opportunities for career development and continuous learning. In addition we offer attractive benefits package that include medical, dental and life insurance as well as tuition remission for spouse or domestic partner and dependents. Staff Positions STUDENTS There are many job opportunities available on and off campus for students. Students often find meaningful employment through the university that allows them the flexibility to meet their academic responsibilities. Student job openings are now posted on Handshake. Student Positions LIFE AT UC It's an exciting time to be at the University of Cincinnati! The University of Cincinnati is a premier, public, urban research university located in the heart of Cincinnati, Ohio. The University boasts a student body of over 45,000 enrolled in over 370 programs of study. The University of Cincinnati embraces diversity and inclusion as core values and seeks to empower all members of the University community. Learn More About UC JOIN OUR TALENT NETWORK Enter your email address and tell us about yourself. We will keep you informed of new job opportunities that match your interests. Already a member? Sign In To My Profile UC VISION Our Strategic Direction Next. Lives. Here. Academic EXCELLENCE Urban IMPACT INNOVATION Agenda Learn About Our Vision DIVERSITY & INCLUSION The Bearcat Bond Upholding the principles for a Just Community and the values of respect, responsibility, and inclusiveness and embracing unique backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives. Learn About Diversity & Inclusion WHY UC? 200 Years Strong Not only are we an institution of higher learning, we contribute millions of dollars in time, talent and philanthropic donations to our local, regional and global communities. And we have so many more opportunities! Learn About Our Bicentennial The University of Cincinnati, as a multi-national and culturally diverse university, is committed to providing an inclusive, equitable and diverse place of learning and employment. As part of a complete job application you will be asked to include a Contribution to Diversity and Inclusion statement. Please contact Human Resources at 513-556-6381 or jobs@UC.edu to request accommodations for the application process. The University of Cincinnati is an Affirmative Action / Equal Opportunity Employer / M / F / Veteran / Disabled. The University of Cincinnati is required by federal law to comply with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) and the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA). In accordance with these acts, each year UC prepares an Annual Security and Fire Report. This report contains campus crime and fire statistics for the previous three years on all UC campuses, as well as, policies for Title IX, Student Conduct and Community Standards, Public Safety and more. For the full report visit Clery Notices at the link below. Clery Notices UC Website View All Jobs Equal Opportunity Right To Privacy Clery Notices Help © Copyright 2019 University of Cincinnati