Toggle audience navigation HR Home Forms HR Departments A to Z Index Work at NC State Search Search Search Search Toggle primary navigation Work Home About NC State Our Community Benefits and Perks Career Development Application Process – Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How do I apply for positions at NC State University? All of our positions are posted on our jobs website at http://jobs.ncsu.edu. If you do not have an account, click “Create Account” from the panel on the left. If you already have an account on our jobs site, login using the “Login” option from the panel on the left. Once you have created an account and/or logged in, you may search for jobs using the “Search Jobs” option from the panel on the left. Search for positions using keywords or by department or college / division. To apply, click on any position that interests you, then click “Apply to this Job” above the posting to initiate the application process. What happens after I submit my application? When you submit your materials via the jobs website, your application and qualifications will immediately be entered into consideration for the position(s) to which you applied. The hiring department reviews submitted applications, comparing materials to the advertised requirements, preferences, and needs of the position, and determines which applicants to contact for interviews. If you are selected for an interview, the hiring department will contact you directly. How long is a position open to receive applications? In general, if a posting is still on our jobs website, it is still open to receive applications. The earliest date that a position may close for new applications is indicated by the “Must Be Open Until” date on the posting. Postings may remain open beyond this date in order to continue recruitment and accepting applications; however, vacancies open past the Must Be Open Until date may close at any time. I forgot my password and/or username. What should I do? Go to the login screen and click “Forgot your username or password?”. You will be prompted for your email address or username and asked to answer the security questions you created when setting up your job application account. Follow the prompts on the screen to have your password reset or username emailed to you. If you have difficulty in resetting your password or retrieving your username, contact Talent Solutions at 919-515-2135 or employment@ncsu.edu . Please note that Talent Solutions may ask you questions about your account in order to verify your identity. What is the status of my application? Has the position been filled? You can check on the status of your application by logging in to the online employment system. Once you log in, go to “Your Applications” located on the top left hand corner. The most common applicant statuses are listed below: Materials Submitted – Your application is complete and has been successfully submitted. The department may begin the application review process at any time. Review Underway – The department is in the process of reviewing applications and your application materials are under consideration. Does Not Meet Qualifications – It has been determined that your application materials indicate that you do not meet at least one of the minimum qualifications included in the “Minimum Experience / Education” and “Departmental Required Skills” on the posting. No Longer Under Consideration – The hiring department reviewed your application materials and decided not to move forward with further consideration. Position Filled – The hiring department has concluded their search and the vacancy has been filled. There is a problem with my application. The system indicates that my application is incomplete. What can I do? If the system indicates that your application is incomplete, here are a few things to check that may resolve the issue. The very last page of the application entitled “Check for Errors and Submit” will identify sections of your application that need attention with a red “X”. Completed sections will appear with a green check mark. For any section with a red “x”, click on the header section and it will take you to the page that needs your attention. At the very top of the page, a red banner will note the fields that require attention. In addition, these fields will be surrounded by a red box. Focus your attention first on any empty red boxes. If all boxes are filled in, please make sure that you are using the drop down calendar to fill in dates. A month, day, and year must be entered. If you don’t remember the exact day, please choose 01. You will need to have a format of MM/DD/YYYY, example 07/17/2012. Another common issue that causes these error messages is extra (blank) Education and/or Employment History fields. Deleting these blank entries will allow you to complete the application. If you continue to experience issues when trying to apply, please contact the Talent Solutions team at (919) 515-2135 or employment@ncsu.edu . I found a posting that I am interested in; however the “Must Be Open Until Date” has passed. Can I apply to this position? If the posting is still on our jobs website (https://jobs.ncsu.edu), then the position is still open and accepting applications. You may apply for this position. Postings may close as of 5:00 PM ET on dates listed and may close at any time after that date/time without notice. Can you give me more information about the job, the hiring department, search committee, or the hiring official? We cannot provide names or contact details for search committee members or hiring managers. In some cases, the posting may provide a contact person for more information or additional questions. If your interest is to primarily identify to whom to address your application materials, it is acceptable to address materials using “Dear Hiring Official” or “Dear Search Committee”. What is the hiring range or salary range for this position? Some positions have well-defined salary and hiring ranges. Unfortunately, not all do. If the posting does not disclose the salary or hiring range, we do not have any additional information. We encourage you to apply for this position. It is likely that the hiring department can provide more information regarding salary further in the consideration process. The posting did not allow me to attach additional documents. Where can I send additional documents or a follow up letter? Aside from the application, many of our postings request a resume and/or curriculum vitae and cover letter. All documents (required and optional) are indicated on the posting under “Application Materials Required”. Those listed are the only documents that will be accepted as part of the application for a particular posting. Additional relevant documents may shared at the time of interview and may also be requested as the consideration process moves forward. How do I make changes or update documents on my application? OR I answered a supplemental question incorrectly. Can I make changes? As long as the position is still posted, you can make changes. However, this will require assistance from Talent Solutions. Please contact Talent Solutions at (919) 515-2135 oremployment@ncsu.edu . Be prepared to provide your username and the position information (title, number, department, etc.) for the application you are attempting to update. I am on the “Your Applications” page, but I cannot see the status of my applications. Where are they? On the “Your Applications” page, there is link that says “Show Your Hidden/Archived Applications” near the bottom. Click here to see any of the applications that you may have archived. Archived applications are simply moved to this area for viewing purposes only. Archiving an application has no effect on your application status. You can un-archive applications as you please. I’m having problems attaching documents. What can I do? Like all application materials, documents must be attached by the applicant. Below are a few of the most common issues we have identified regarding attaching documents. While our system is compatible with most browsers, we have experienced occasional issues with attaching documents when using Safari as well as older versions of Internet Explorer. Our testing has indicated that Firefox or Google Chrome work best with our online employment system. Not all postings require additional documents. Please check the “Application Materials Required” on the posting for which documents are required and/or optional. When attaching documents, the status of documents will say “PDF Conversion in Progress”. This process should not take more than a minute or so. You may refresh your browser to update your page. When complete, this status will change to “PDF Conversion Complete”. Official Transcripts are often password protected and/or encrypted. Our system cannot accept these files due to the protection. In order to submit them in the system, you may print the transcript, scan it as a PDF file, and then attach it. If you continue to experience issues, please contact the Talent Solutions team at (919) 515-2135 or employment@ncsu.edu . How do I know if I am qualified for a position when looking at the job posting? When looking at postings online, pay particular attention to three important fields: “Minimum Education/Experience”, “Departmental Required Skills”, and “Required Licenses/Certifications”. Qualified applicants must meet all of the requirements in these fields to be considered for a position. The most qualified applicants will likely also meet some or all of the qualifications listed in the “Preferred Experience, Skills, Training/Education” field. I am currently (or was previously) employed by the State of North Carolina. How does prior state service impact my benefits and leave? Our Onboarding Center created an informative matrix to provide information on how prior state service impacts benefits and leave. Visit the Incoming Employees with Prior State of NC Service for more information. Can I submit a paper application? NC State University only accepts applications for employment electronically via the jobs website (http://jobs.ncsu.edu). Our jobs site is configured to be accessible for individuals with disabilities and useable by technology like screen readers. However, should you require an accommodation to the electronic application process due to disability, please contact Talent Solutions s at (919) 515-2135 or employment@ncsu.edu for assistance. How long should I expect to wait until I hear back once I’ve submitted my application? The duration of the recruitment process at NC State can vary dramatically depending on many factors such as the number of applicants, the availability of the search committee members, etc. In addition, a majority of the day-to-day recruitment and selection process occurs within the individual departments. While it is encouraged that communication regarding recruitments occur as quickly as possible, it is not uncommon for recruitments to last weeks, or even months for our more complex recruitments. You may check the status of your application online at https://jobs.ncsu.edu, and going to “Your Applications” located on the top left hand corner of the page. Work at NC State 2711 Sullivan Drive Administrative Services Building II, Suite 110 Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Phone: 919-515-2135 Fax: 919-515-7543 Email: workatncstate@ncsu.edu © 2021 NC State Human Resources | Log in Office of Finance & Administration Emergency Information Privacy Statement Accessibility University Policies Contact Us Jobs Human Resources Offices