Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation Home Search Jobs Applicant Interest Card Notifications Log In /Create Account Help Applicants Have Rights Under Federal Employment Laws Immigration Law Related Notices Relocation Assistance Program Working at ECU Thank you for your interest in a career at ECU. ECU offers a challenging academic environment and an energetic campus life. We are committed to excellence through a talented and diverse faculty and staff. We appreciate your interest in joining our community. Part of the University of North Carolina System, ECU offers excellent benefits, including health care and retirement plans, tuition assistance for employees, and generous leave time. If you wish to apply for a position, please select the employee category you are interested in below – faculty, non-faculty, staff, student, or temporary – for information and instructions on how to apply. Faculty Positions Non-Faculty Positions Staff Positions Temporary Faculty/Non-Faculty/Postdoctoral Scholars Student Positions           Federal Work Study Student Positions Temporary Staff Positions All Positions Benefits Important Details Final candidates are subject to criminal and sex offender background checks. Some vacancies also require credit or motor vehicle checks. ECU participates in E-Verify. Federal law requires all employers to verify the identity and employment eligibility of all persons hired to work in the United States. Criminal Background Check Guidelines Veteran's Preference Guidelines Individuals requesting accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act (ADAAA) should contact the Department of Human Resources at (252) 737-1018 (Voice/TTY) or ADA-Coordinator@ecu.edu. Please note: All applications must be submitted by 11:59 p.m. (EST) on the closing date indicated. AA/EEO Statement Pursuant to its obligation under applicable Federal law, East Carolina University will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin and to employ and advance in employment qualified employees and applicants who are protected veterans and individuals with disabilities at all levels of employment. Further, East Carolina University is committed to equality of opportunity and prohibits discrimination against applicants, students, employees, or visitors based on race/ethnicity, color, genetic information, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, disability, political affiliation, or veteran status. For more information about the East Carolina University Affirmative Action Policy, please contact the Office for Equity and Diversity at (252) 328-6804 or visit the website at www.ecu.edu/oed. Affirmative Action Notice of Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action Policy East Carolina University does not discriminate on the basis of sex in any education program or activity as required by Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. This includes admission and employment and individuals may report concerns of sexual harassment or inquiries on the University’s application of Title IX to the University’s Title IX Coordinator or the United States Department of Education Office for Civil Rights. LaKesha Alston Forbes, Title IX Coordinator Office for Equity and Diversity Old Cafeteria Building Suite G406, Greenville, NC 27858 Email: oed@ecu.edu Phone: (252) 328-6804 https://titleix.ecu.edu Contact Us The Department of Human Resources Our Location: 210 East 1st St. Greenville, NC 27858 Phone: (252) 328-9847 or toll free at 1-866-489-1740 Contact us via email at employment@ecu.edu The Department of Human Resources Home Page Employment Learn more about working at ECU Below are some links to further explore working at ECU. Campus Map Parking & Transportation Learning & Organizational Development University Calendar ECU’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available to download online at https://police.ecu.edu/annual-security-report/ or in hard-copy by request at the University Police Department. This report, required of all universities by federal law, provides crime and fire safety statistics for the previous three years and includes certain ECU policies concerning campus security (such as policies regarding sexual assault, fire safety, alcohol and other drugs). Student Employment UNC Wide Employment NC State Agencies Employment Back to top To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.