Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation Home Search Jobs Job Alerts Log In /Create Account FAQs Equal Opportunity Statement EEO is the Law EEO is the Law Supplement Oregon Family Leave Act Family & Medical Leave Act Welcome and thank you for your interest in employment with OSU! OSU is committed to the health of our local and global community. All employees and students are required to comply with the university’s COVID-19 Vaccination Program. Please visit https://covid.oregonstate.edu/ for additional information about OSU’s plans for safety and success, as well as options for compliance with the vaccination program. If you have specific questions about the current status of search for which you have applied, please do not hesitate to reach out to the contact listed in the Special Instructions to Applicants section of the job posting. Classified Staff Academic Teaching/Research & Administrative/Professional Faculty Temporary Staff & Academic Wage Student Employment Opportunities! About OSU Work Life Careers at OSU Benefits Introduction New Users To search positions, click the Search Jobs link on the left navigation To apply for a job, click the Create Account link on the left navigation bar, then search jobs. You will be prompted to create an application if you have not done so before. Returning Users Click the Login link on the left navigation bar, and enter your username and password. This enables you to: Edit your existing account settings. Apply for new jobs. Review the status of positions you have applied to Bookmark a job Commitment to Excellence OSU commits to inclusive excellence by advancing equity and diversity in all that we do. We are an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer, and particularly encourage applications from members of historically underrepresented racial/ethnic groups, women, individuals with disabilities, veterans, LGBTQ community members, and others who demonstrate the ability to help us achieve our vision of a diverse and inclusive community. Pay Transparency Policy Statement The contractor will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against employees or applicants because they have inquired about, discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation information of other employees or applicants as a part of their essential job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have access to compensation information, unless the disclosure is a) in response to a formal complaint or charge, b) in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted by the employer, or c) consistent with the contractor’s legal duty to furnish information. Contact Us / Important Information For specific questions about a posting - refer to the "Special Instructions to Applicants" section of the posting for contact information For technical assistance - email employment@oregonstate.edu Application Deadline - 11:59 p.m. PST on the closing date Internal Employment Opportunities Why OSU? Labor Condition Applications Disability Accommodation At Oregon State University, no qualified person shall, solely by reason of disability, be denied access to, participation in, or the benefits of, any program or activity operated by the University. If requested, OSU will provide reasonable accommodation to applicants in order to provide access to the application, interviewing and selection process. You are not required to note the presence of a disability on your application to receive an accommodation. Please request any reasonable accommodations for disability as early as possible in the application and search process. Requests may be directed to the hiring unit, or to the Office of Equal Opportunity and Access at (541) 737-3556. See Request an Accommodation Procedures for the OSU policy. Title IX Statement Oregon State University, in compliance with federal Title IX regulations which prohibit such discrimination, does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education program and activities, including employment. OSU’s Title IX Coordinator is the Executive Director of the Office of Equal Opportunity and Access (EOA). For information on OSU’s Sexual Misconduct and Discrimination policy and processes, including how to report sexual misconduct or discrimination, contact EOA by phone: 541-737-3556, email: equal.opportunity@oregonstate.edu, mail/location: 330 Snell Hall, Corvallis OR 97331, or visit EOA’s website: eoa.oregonstate.edu. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Email Help Desk Notice of Availability: In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, Oregon State University publishes Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports for the Corvallis campus, OSU-Cascades campus, Hatfield Marine Science Center, and OSU at EOU. These reports include important safety information, a wide range of current security policies, fire safety practices, helpful university and local resources, crime prevention programs, and crime and fire statistics for the previous three calendar years. Paper copies of these reports will be provided upon request and can also be obtained at 200 Cascade Hall, 601 SW 17th St., Corvallis, OR. If you prefer, you may request a copy by emailing Clery.Compliance@oregonstate.edu. This report is available without charge. To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.