Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation Home Search Jobs Job Alerts Log In /Create Account Help Diversity at NC State News at NC State NC State Named Best Large Employer in North Carolina At NC State, your work can change the world. Come join a university that creates economic, societal and intellectual prosperity. About NC State Stats and Strengths About Raleigh Benefits, Employee Wellness and Work-Life Faculty Opportunities Staff and Administrator Opportunities Post Doc and Veterinary House Officer Opportunities NC State Extension Opportunities Other Positions at NC State Temporary jobs: Show Temp Jobs Only Student employment: Head over to the Career Development Center NC State is committed to diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity NC State University is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, gender identity, age, sexual orientation, genetic information, status as an individual with a disability or status as a protected veteran. NC State strives to ensure that applicants, students, faculty, staff, and visitors are safe and not subject to further discrimination, harassment or retaliation regarding protected statuses or protected activities. Learn more here. Should you experience or witness discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, you have the option to file a report with NC State University's Equal Opportunity and Equity Unit and/or NC State Police. Persons with disabilities requesting accommodations in the application and interview process, please call 919.515.3148 or send an email to ada_coordinator@ncsu.edu. Have Questions? Check our frequently asked questions (FAQs). If you have additional questions, please contact us: 2711 Sullivan Drive Administrative Services Building II, Suite 110 Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 Phone: 919-515-2135 | Fax: 919-515-7543 workatncstate@ncsu.edu Notices President Biden’s Executive Order 14042 and subsequent guidance issued by the Safer Federal Workforce Task Force requires covered employees of federal contractors to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. NC State is a leading research university with active federal contracts, and is subject to these requirements. As a result, applicants seeking positions determined to be covered by the federal directives must have received their final COVID-19 vaccination dose in the single or two-shot series by January 4, 2022, or by their first day of work, whichever is later, unless they request and are approved for a university-approved medical or religious accommodation. An individual is fully vaccinated two weeks after they have received the second dose in a two-dose series, or two weeks after they have received a single-dose vaccine. NC State will notify applicants who must meet the vaccination requirement during the recruitment process, and it is the applicant’s responsibility to meet the requirements by providing proof of vaccination or by obtaining an exemption. See NC State’s Protect the Pack website for more information on the university’s employee vaccination requirements. Annual Security and Fire Safety Report The NC State Annual Security and Fire Safety Report (.pdf) is available via download, via hard copy, by request, at the University Police Department, or via email at: ncsupoliceinfo@ncsu.edu. Additional Notices EEO Is the Law (.pdf) Labor Certification Notices Background Checks H-1B regulations require an employer to notify all affected employees of its intent to hire H-1B/E-3 nonimmigrant workers and the terms of that employment, as specified in the Labor Condition Application (LCA) filed with the U.S. Department of Labor. The LCA informs affected employees of their rights and ability to file complaints if they believe violations have occurred. NC State University employees may now, and until further notice, view/access electronic LCA notices (referred to as Notices of Intent to File) via the following link: Labor Condition Application (LCA) Notices. NC State uses E-Verify to confirm employment eligibility of all newly hired employees. Visit the E-Verify website to learn more about E-Verify, including your rights and responsibilities. NC STATE UNIVERSITY RALEIGH, NC 27695 PHONE: (919) 515-2011 Privacy Accessibility Emergency Information Policies NC State Home © 2019 NC State University. All rights reserved To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.