Notre Dame Application Portal University of Notre Dame Home Why ND Mission & Values Diversity & Inclusion Benefits & Compensation Professional Development Well-Being & Culture Living Around ND Dual Career Assistance Benefits & Compensation Package Calculator Search Jobs Job Alerts Create Account Login Help Celebrate Diversity With Us. Be Inclusive. We are talented, passionate and driven by our distinct mission to heal, unify and enlighten the world. Our community is diverse, guided by our core values and excited about you joining our team. Your path to a fulfilling career at Notre Dame begins here. Full Time Part Time Temporary Faculty Equal Opportunity The University of Notre Dame seeks to attract, develop, and retain the highest quality faculty, staff and administration. The University is an Equal Opportunity Employer, and is committed to building a culturally diverse workplace. We strongly encourage applications from female and minority candidates and others that will enhance our community. Moreover, Notre Dame prohibits discrimination against veterans or disabled qualified individuals, and requires affirmative action by covered contractors to employ and advance veterans and qualified individuals with disabilities in compliance with 41 CFR 60-741.5(a) and 41 CFR 60-300.5(a). Contact Us General application inquiries can be directed to the askHR Customer Service Center at 574-631-5900 or askhr@nd.edu. The University of Notre Dame provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities. Applicants requiring a reasonable accommodation for any part of the application/hiring process should contact the Office of Human Resources by telephone at 574-631-5900 or by email at askhr@nd.edu to request a reasonable accommodation. Determinations as to granting reasonable accommodations for any applicant will be made on a case-by-case basis. Copyright© 2014 | University of Notre Dame | Office of Human Resources | Contact 200 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone:(574)631-5900 Email:askhr@nd.edu