Skip to Main Content University of Notre Dame Toggle navigation Home Search Jobs Applicant Job Alerts Log In /Create Account Help Search Postings (11) View all open Postings below, or enter search criteria to narrow your search. Keywords Posted Within Any time period Last Day Last Week Last Month Job Title Job Type No Selection Full-time Part-time Temporary Seasonal Job Number Job Category No Selection Administrator/Professional Athletics Information Technology Internship Library Office/Clerical Temporary Service/Maintenance Summer Employment Technical Other View Results (11) Posting Number Department Job Close Date Host/Hostess, Part Time - Morris Inn (2 Positions) S221438 Morris Inn (55015) 06/03/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Host(s) within The Morris Inn. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives. Why this position?Morris Inn needs YOU to join our team as a host. Help us welco... View Details Bookmark CSA, Holy Cross College (Part Time) S221423 HCC - Siegfried Dining Hall (55300) 06/10/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Culinary Service Associate for Holy Cross College. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives.Why this position?The Culinary Service Associate reports to t... View Details Bookmark Dining Service Associate (Part-Time) S221737 FS - Religious - Corby (55062) 06/17/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Dining Service Associate for Corby Religious House. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives.Why this position?We are looking for talented individuals to... View Details Bookmark Houseperson - Morris Inn (Part-Time) S221734 Morris Inn (55015) 06/17/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Houseperson within the department of the Morris Inn. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives.Why this position?The Houseperson provides housekeeping sup... View Details Bookmark Room Attendant/Housekeeper (Part Time) S221720 Morris Inn (55015) 06/13/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Room Attendant/Housekeeper within the department of the Morris Inn. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives.Why this position?The Room Attendant/Houseke... View Details Bookmark Event Server - Three Leaf Catering (Part Time) S221709 Three Leaf Catering (55105) 06/13/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Event Server within the department of Three Leaf Catering. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives.Why this position?The mission of the University Enter... View Details Bookmark Cook 1, North Dining Hall (Part Time) S221527 Food Services North Dining Hall (55065) 06/03/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Cook 1 within the department of Campus Dining at North Dining Hall. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives. Why this position?As a Cook with the Univer... View Details Bookmark CSA - North Dining Hall (Part Time) S221493 Food Services North Dining Hall (55065) 06/03/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Culinary Service Associate within the department of Campus Dining, at North Dining Hall. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives.Why this position?The C... View Details Bookmark Dining Service Associate - North Dining Hall (Part Time) S221484 Food Services North Dining Hall (55065) 06/03/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Dining Service Associate (DSA), within Campus Dining at North Dining Hall. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives.Why this position?The Dining Service ... View Details Bookmark Retail Associate - Legends (Part Time) S221671 Legends (55135) 06/03/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Retail Associate within Legends. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives.Why this position?This position is the primary cashier for food service venue. ... View Details Bookmark Bartender - Legends (Part Time) S221668 Legends (55135) 06/03/2022 The University of Notre Dame Enterprises and Events (UEE) division is currently hiring for the position of Bartender within the department of Legends. The UEE division leads the University’s event management, hospitality, and customer service functions while supporting student life, academic endeavors, and research initiatives.Why this position?This position provides hospitality in accordance w... View Details Bookmark To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.