Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Human Resources Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Human ResourcesOpen main menu Close Open search Search Committees Close Search Committees Hiring Toolkit iCIMS Login Student Jobs DCA/RIF Portal Compensation Calculator Cache Valley Visitors Bureau Veterans Preference Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU A Career With Impact At Utah State University, each of our employees has the opportunity to shape the future through learning, discovery, and engagement. Come join our Aggie Family and make an impact. Join Us USU Employees Search Here The Aggie Working Experience James Morales Student Affairs “USU has a broad array of events, program and activities for students, faculty, and staff that combine to create a really enhanced, vibrant culture.” Becky Lawver College of Agriculture “I love the mission of USU. I love that we are student centered . . . and can reach people across the state.” Dayna Janes Caine College of the Arts “I keep working here because I have an amazing supervisor that has done so much to help me progress in my position. I also have great co-workers that make this job fun and exciting. This is the first job that I have had that I can honestly say that I love and I love coming to work each day.” Amanda Bevington Student Services “As someone not originally from the area, I have the chance to interact with those that are different than me in a variety ways and have many different experiences, and that is so awesome!” Jed Waldron Facilities “My job has the flexibility I need for my family . . . and the benefit of having myself and my children receive half-off tuition is great. I also have the chance to plan for retirement using the planning services USU provides.” #3 Best Place To Work In Utah - Forbes, 2019 Fantastic Benefits Learn how USU can help you reach for financial goals with a generous compensation and benefits package. Download Benefit PDF Retirement Strong employer contribution Low or no vesting Early retirement incentives Time And Leave Annual leave Sick Leave Paid Holidays Health Insurance Medical Dental Life Vision Voluntary Benefits Wellness Be Well Rewards Onsite Fitness Facilities Fitness Assessments Nutrition Consultations Education Tuition Reduction Class Auditing This is Our Great Outdoors Avg. Summer Temperature Avg. Winter Temperature Experience Living In Cache Valley Within a few minutes from campus you can hike, camp, rock climb, mountain bike, ski, kayak, paddle board and more. Logan is famous for being a friendly and safe place to live and study. People from all over the world are drawn to its vibrant economy and beautiful scenery. #1 Safest Metro In The West - Washington Monthly, 2017 Most Beautiful College In Utah - Time Magazine, 2017 Join an institution that makes an impact Since 1888, USU has been charged with helping the people of Utah realize their full potential through higher education. We take this mission seriously having helped over 200,000 people statewide earn college degrees. Be An Aggie Anywhere With 33 Statewide Campuses and centers, 3 residential campuses, and Extension offices in nearly every county, our impact reaches the entire state. USU’s main campus in Logan provides a traditional college experience and student life. USU Eastern in Price, and other locations in Utah, offer career-driven programs at convenient locations. USU Online gives students access to the same top-tier education anytime, anywhere. Select a Campus or Center to Learn More Select a Location USU Beaver USU Bicknell USUE Blanding USU Brigham City USU Castle Dale USU Cedar City USU Delta USU Ephraim USU Grantsville USU Heber USU Junction USU Kanab USU Kaysville Logan (Main Campus) USU Manila USU Moab USU Montezuma Creek USU Monticello USU Monument Valley USU Nephi USU Orem USU Panguitch USU Park City USUE Price USU Randolph USU Richfield USU Salt Lake USU St. George USU Tooele USU Tremonton USU Uintah Basin USU Wendover Submit Selection Aggies Create Impact See a few ways Aggies impact the world around them. Join Us Notices of Filing Human Resources Contact Us USU HR Facebook 8800 Old Main Hill 1195 E 700 N Logan, UT 84322 hr@usu.edu Mon-Fri: 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM (435) 797-0216 (Main) (435) 797-0122 (Solutions Center) (435) 797-1059 (Payroll Helpdesk) Resources HR Directory Website Feedback USU Eastern/Blanding Jobs Internal Jobs Student Employment Employee Rights Posters Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page