Access Matters | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Access Matters Access Matters Your support is fundamental to increasing scholarship aid for the next generation of newsroom leaders. "Journalism is under remarkable pressure worldwide. Yet in response, our alumni are producing vital work, and our students are inspired, not intimidated. This is an exciting and essential time to invest in journalism education at Columbia." Read the letter from Dean Steve Coll. Columbia Journalism School sets the highest standards for graduate journalism education. Each year, the talent of our applicants is striking. They are drawn here from across the country and around the world by the strength of our curriculum and faculty and the influence of our alumni. They come, often after real sacrifice, to learn to identify, report and tell important stories with empathy, clarity and depth. We offer places to the very best students, regardless of their ability to pay. And thanks to the support of J-School alumni, our classrooms are invigorated by students who bring experiences and perspectives from many different backgrounds to Pulitzer Hall each year. Access matters. That is why we are launching The Scholarship Campaign for Columbia Journalism School to increase scholarship support for exceptional applicants with financial need. I hope you will join me in helping these students receive a Columbia education. For immediate impact, please consider contributing to the Annual Fund, or increasing your annual gift, to support scholarships for the incoming class. For those able to make enduring commitments, endowing a scholarship is a powerful way to ensure the future strength of our scholarship program and our school. You can read more about these options here, and our Office of Alumni & Development can provide additional information tailored to your individual circumstances and philanthropic goals. We are also seeking funds as part of a broader, university-wide campaign to bring new faculty to the school, provide more resources for students and faculty to research and report and to upgrade our magnificent, historic home. Journalism is under remarkable pressure worldwide. Yet in response, our alumni are producing vital work, and our students are inspired, not intimidated. This is an exciting and essential time to invest in journalism education at Columbia. Thank you for your commitment to your school, and to ensuring access to all. Bests, Steve Coll Dean and Henry R. Luce Professor of Journalism MAKE A GIFT The Annual Fund The Annual Fund is vital to supporting Columbia Journalism School's mission of increasing scholarships and eliminating the financial barriers that prevent access to a modern journalism education rooted in the fundamentals of impartial and fair reporting. Because of its tremendous and immediate impact, we ask all alumni to support this fund first and, if they are able, to make additional gifts to designated funds like class and endowed funds. Donors with cumulative gifts of $1,000 or more ($500 for graduates from the last 10 years) to the Annual Fund within a given fiscal year (July 1 to June 30) qualify for the Dean’s Circle. Members of the Dean’s Circle demonstrate philanthropic leadership and enthusiastic commitment to the Journalism School that inspires others. Dean’s Circle members who give $5,000 or more to the Annual Fund in a single year may have a named scholarship awarded in their honor or in honor of an individual of the donor’s choosing. For more information on supporting the Annual Fund please contact Cynthia Helton at 212.851.9653. Endowing a Scholarship Endowed funds are essential to the long-term health of the School and a wonderful way to honor our exceptional alumni. Establish an endowed scholarship at the school with a minimum commitment of $100,000, payable over five years. Once the scholarship is fully funded, the endowment would generate a scholarship each year equivalent to approximately 5% of the fund’s principal. For more information, please email Janine Jaquet or call her at 212-854-1148. Other Areas of Support The School continues to measure itself by the standards of rigor, faculty excellence, research, collaboration and public service held high across Columbia University. As part of a broader, university-wide fundraising campaign, the Journalism School has numerous opportunities for alumni and friends to provide support, including to recruit the best faculty, increase resources for students and faculty to research and report, and to upgrade our historic home. For more information, please email Janine Jaquet or call her at 212-854-1148. MAKE A GIFT Access Matters in Action "Supporting the Annual Fund makes all the difference in the world. We, as journalists, face so many challenges. We do not enter journalism for financial rewards. And yet, specialized training is needed to move forward." Diana De Lourdes Baptista Rojo '19 M.S. Data Journalism "Thanks to the generosity of alumni and friends at Columbia Journalism School, I can respond to the urgent need for local journalism in underserved communities such as mine." Mónica Ortiz Uribe '18 M.A. Business and Economics "Scholarships are the deciding factor as admitted students consider whether or not they can afford to attend the school, and they help new grads like me launch careers we care deeply about. Increasing the amount of scholarship support the school can offer to students with financial need will ensure the future strength of the school and enrich our profession immeasurably." Kadia Tubman '18 M.S. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.