M.S. Degree | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Master of Science M.S. Degree M.S. Degree The Master of Science degree is the foundational program of the Journalism School. Students in the M.S. program are on the street reporting from day one, learning to think critically and act ethically. Classes are small, instructors give students intensive feedback and the pass-fail grading policy fosters collaboration. The result: A grounding in the fundamental skills that helps graduates stand out and makes a difference throughout their careers. Jump to: Who Should Apply Full-time & Part-time Options Curriculum Specializations Classes Explore Programs Who Should Apply The M.S. program is designed for a range of students, from those with little to no experience to those who have been working in the field for several years and want to enhance their skills in order to advance to a new level. Full-time & Part-time Options Students can opt to complete their studies in in 9½ months in the full-time program, or two years in the part-time program. Either way, they share the same professors and take most of their classes with one another. Students who opt for the full-time program take three to four classes at a time in each semester, an intense schedule that doesn’t leave time for an outside job. Part-time students take one to two classes at a time (depending on the semester), and many are employed full-time while doing the program. LEARN ABOUT THE PART-TIME PROGRAM Curriculum M.S. students begin their coursework by taking a reporting module that explores the ways journalists gather and analyze information. Students meet with instructors in small-group seminars to discuss techniques and issues, then put what they’re learning into practice as they cover beats, develop enterprise stories and report breaking news on deadline. See the schedule for full-time students. In addition, all M.S. students take the following classes: The Written Word, a 7-week module in which students learn to write engaging stories or scripts for an audience, and begin to develop a voice. They can opt, within this module, to take a class focusing on news, on feature writing, on long-form narrative, or on writing for the ear. Image & Sound, a 7-week module in which students pick a medium -- audio, data, photo or video -- and explore its technologies and its storytelling potential. Investigative Techniques, a 7-week module that teaches students how to think like investigative reporters as they dig into records, conduct internet forensics and do thorough background searches on individuals and corporations. Journalism Essentials, classes which focus on journalism law, ethics, history and the business forces affecting the news media. Two 15-week spring seminar and production courses, which give students a chance to dive deep into areas that interest them, whether that’s a medium such as book writing, broadcast news, photojournalism or digital publishing, or a subject area such as business journalism, conflict reporting or education writing. The Master’s Project, in which students, working under the guidance of individual advisors, conduct an in-depth exploration of a topic as a journalist would pursue it. Master’s Projects can take a variety of forms, some of them incorporating elements from more than one medium: print, photo, audio, video, data. SEE CLASS DESCRIPTIONS Specializations Applicants may request entry to the 9 ½-month M.S. program or to these areas of specialization: The Stabile Investigative Program gives students a rigorous grounding in investigative reporting techniques and methods. The Documentary Program program trains students in the art of documentary filmmaking; full-time students in the documentary program stay for a third semester to complete their films. Students accepted into either of these specializations take designated classes in their specialty areas in addition to the general M.S. curriculum. At the time of application, an applicant may request to be considered for the general M.S. program if they are not accepted into the specialized program. Classes Classes cover a wide range of journalistic specializations, practices and techniques, as well as the business of journalism and emerging technologies. Students can choose to focus on a medium, such as long-form narrative, photojournalism or video production; or on a subject area such as education, business or religion reporting. SEE CLASS DESCRIPTIONS Explore Programs LEARN ABOUT THE M.S. IN DATA JOURNALISM, M.A., DUAL DEGREE AND PH.D. PROGRAMS. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.