Student Work | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs M.S. Data JRN Student Work J-School students have produced wide-ranging reporting on the pandemic, 2020 election and more. Visit Columbia News Service to read more of their work. Photo: Reed Young, '22 Part-time M.S. Student Work Drop Down to Sort Student Work All Student Work Arts & Culture Audio Broadcast Business & Economics Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing M.S. M.A. M.A. Arts & Culture M.A. Business M.A. Politics M.A. Science M.S. Data M.S. Documentary M.S. Stabile Ph.D.All Student WorkArts & CultureAudioBroadcastBusiness & EconomicsDataDocumentaryInternationalInvestigativeMultimediaPoliticsScienceWritingM.S.M.A.M.A. Arts & CultureM.A. BusinessM.A. PoliticsM.A. ScienceM.S. DataM.S. DocumentaryM.S. StabilePh.D. Nid Apply With ninety days left before he ages out of foster care, Alex has to get it together, or risk going back to the world he’s trying to escape. A film by Christina Shaman and Anakha Arikara, both '19 M.S. Documentary. Aged and Confused Diana Chan and Christina Kelso, both '19 M.S. Documentary, highlight the struggle of a student and principal at a unique Brooklyn school that teaches students to counsel each other through their mistakes. In Circles M.S. Documentary students Ingrid Holmquist and Sana A. Malik won the 2019 Best Documentary at the BAFTA Student Film Award for Guanajuato Norte about a man from Guanajuato, Mexico working on a Connecticut farm and contending with being away from his family and home for years in order to support their dreams and build them a new life. She's Not a Boy by '18 M.S. Documentary students Yuhong Pang and Robert Tokanel follows Tatenda Ngwaru, an asylum-seeking intersex woman from Zimbabwe as she tries to make a home in New York City. The film was published by The Atlantic. The film Trouble Finds You by Stephanie Tangkilisan, '18 M.S. Documentary, tells the story of an MBA student whose life is derailed when he is indicted in New York's largest gang takedown. The film won the Vital Projects Criminal Justice Grant and was published by The Intercept. Two students from a Harlem public middle school attempt to succeed in the privileged world of debate. A film by Doc ‘17 students Sushana Dubreil and Genesis Tuyuc. Harlem Legacy. Reuniting with their children is one of the most underappreciated challenges facing formerly incarcerated mothers. This is the story of one woman who will do anything to prove that she is worthy of a second chance. Love, Mommy by Doc ‘17 students Tala Hadavi and Yeong-Ung Yang was named Winner for Student Entry at the 2019 About Women and Girls film festival and was broadcast on PBS. Finding common ground in a Brooklyn kitchen, a group of political asylees work towards a future in the restaurant business. A film by Doc ‘17 students Thea Piltzecker and Liz Scherffius. A Table For All Doc '17 students Daniela Cruzat and Farrah Lopez are working on Born to Stay for NBC Digital. Daniela is now at CNN; Farrah is working with The Opposition with Jordan Klepper. Born To Stay Feeling disenfranchised, a group of previously apolitical voters in Pennsylvania, wages a grassroots campaign for the only man they feel can save them. A film by Doc ‘16 students Saraha Bellingham and Max Toomey. The players for a dwarf basketball team are heroes on the court. But on the streets of New York, they’re outsiders. The Towers, a film by Doc ‘16 students Oliver Arnoldi and Maria Chiu, follows their struggle for acceptance. "Code of Silence," produced by Stabile and documentary students, found that female officers around the country regularly face sexual harassment by colleagues and superiors. This short documentary by Scilla Alecci and George Steptoe was posted on The New York Times website in 2016. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.