M.S. Documentary Specialization | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Master of Science M.S. Documentary Specialization Ingrid Holmquist and Sana Malik '18 M.S. Documentary "Guanajuato Norte," an intimate look into the life of a farmworker supporting his family from afar, won the 2019 BAFTA Student Film Award for Documentary and was featured by The New Yorker. M.S. Documentary Specialization A select program for M.S. students who spend a third semester making a short documentary. We train students to succeed in the expanding world of documentaries. You learn writing, shooting, sound recording, editing and the business of documentaries. Classes are small, focused and hands-on. Jump to: The Documentary Program Who Should Apply Curriculum Classes Student Work Faculty Film Fridays The Documentary Program The Documentary program combines world‐class training in how to be a reporter with professional skills in the craft of long-form visual storytelling. Students spend 9½ months learning how to develop sources; find and verify information; use data and develop visual skills. They learn camera work, sound recording and editing. They also learn the business side of documentary production – grant writing, negotiations, rights and clearances and how to develop a winning production trailer. The additional semester – completed during the summer – allows students to produce and edit their video Master’s Project. Documentary students generally work in teams and get individual coaching from advisers who are recognized documentary producers. We expect the resulting films to be published: online, on cable or on broadcast. During the year, students in the Documentary Program meet some of the world’s most acclaimed documentarians who visit classes and show their work at the regular Film Fridays series. Recent guests have included Alex Gibney, Stanley Nelson, Sarah Burns, Kirsten Johnson, Nanfu Wang, Matt Heinemann, Josh Oppenheimer and Ezra Edelman. They also attend select festivals at venues outside of campus. Under the direction of Professors June Cross and Betsy West, students undertake courses in journalism production, visual storytelling, camerawork and editing. Faculty advisers have included Tom Casciato, Nina Chaudry, Julie Cohen, Rachel Dretzin, Pamela Hogan, Andy Fredericks and Simon Surowicz. Who Should Apply The admissions committee seeks applicants who can articulate their passion for documentary filmmaking. The Journalism School is committed to building a diverse student population and we encourage applications from students of all ethnic and economic backgrounds. Previous experience shooting and editing is welcome but not necessary. Curriculum × During the fall semester, students take the core Reporting class, then test into Video 1 (for the inexperienced) or Video 2 (for those with demonstrated experience in shooting and editing). Beginning videographers are expected to develop their skills. Concurrently, during the first semester, students learn about the documentary canon and workshop story ideas for their own films. Projects are approved for production by the time the spring semester begins. During the spring semester, students get hands‐on production experience and learn to craft compelling stories. By the end of the semester they pitch a work‐in‐progress trailer to a group of commissioning editors from major outlets. In the past, these editors have included representatives from the Sundance Documentary Fund, HBO and CNN. Students complete their Master's Project documentary during the summer semester and they are due on August 14. They graduate in December at a special graduation event. The following day, their films are showcased at the annual Columbia Journalism School DocFest. Classes In addition to the required classes, Documentary Program students choose from the many spring classes that are open to all students. Please note: The classes listed here represent recent offerings at the Journalism School. Choices vary each semester depending on faculty availability and other considerations. Classes described now may change or be dropped to make room for new additions. Documentary Specialization Seminar Professor: June Cross Thor Neureiter Nina Berman Judith Helfand Documentary Specialization Seminar June Cross Thor Neureiter Nina Berman Judith Helfand This seminar has two primary objectives: to acquaint you with the aesthetics, ethics and traditions of documentaries, and to prepare you to make your own short, nonfiction film. To accomplish this, we will be studying, watching and dissecting lots of docs. And you will undertake a series of exercises and workshops on shooting, organizing, editing, budgeting, archive use and outreach. Open only to students in the M.S. Documentary Program. Video 1/Web & Documentary Video 1/Web & Documentary This class is for students interested in producing short-form videos, of the type that appear on web sites such as Vice.com or NYTimes.com. In this course, you’ll learn the basics of video journalism: gathering sound and picture simultaneously; the fundamentals of exposure and composition; the grammar of video, writing to picture, selecting sound bites, the basic concepts of non-linear editing. By the end of the course, you should have a foundational understanding of the basic skills involved in video storytelling and the ability to produce short-form video pieces. Video 2 Professor: Betsy West Video 2 Betsy West If you already have a solid foundation in video, you may request admission to this module, which will give you the chance to develop a more sophisticated understanding of, and approach to, the medium. We’ll delve into the elements necessary for producing compelling stories; teach you how to light and shoot sequences and well-framed interviews; discuss the practical ethical and legal considerations of working in video; and help you develop rapport with subjects. You may request this module during balloting, but when you get to campus, you’ll be required to demonstrate the ability to shoot video interviews and action scenes; identify and use sound bites; and edit a short story using pictures and sound. Those not qualified will be placed in Video 1. For more information, contact Prof. Betsy West. See all classes Student Work Feeling disenfranchised, a group of previously apolitical voters in Pennsylvania, wages a grassroots campaign for the only man they feel can save them. A film by Doc ‘16 students Saraha Bellingham and Max Toomey. With ninety days left before he ages out of foster care, Alex has to get it together, or risk going back to the world he’s trying to escape. A film by Christina Shaman and Anakha Arikara, both '19 M.S. Documentary. Aged and Confused The players for a dwarf basketball team are heroes on the court. But on the streets of New York, they’re outsiders. The Towers, a film by Doc ‘16 students Oliver Arnoldi and Maria Chiu, follows their struggle for acceptance. Diana Chan and Christina Kelso, both '19 M.S. Documentary, highlight the struggle of a student and principal at a unique Brooklyn school that teaches students to counsel each other through their mistakes. In Circles See more student work Faculty Nina Alvarez CBS Assistant Professor of International Journalism; Director of Global Journalism June Cross Professor of Journalism; Director, Documentary Journalism Program Judith Helfand James Madison Visiting Professor on First Amendment Issues Duy Linh Tu Associate Professor of Professional Practice Sarah Bellingham Adjunct Faculty Matt Bockelman Adjunct Faculty Sarah Fitzpatrick Adjunct Faculty Andrew Fredericks Adjunct Faculty Eléonore (Léo) Hamelin Adjunct Faculty Pamela Hogan Adjunct Faculty Byron Hurt Adjunct Faculty Sofian Khan Adjunct Faculty Thor Neureiter Adjunct Faculty; Director, Video Journalism Carlos Sandoval Adjunct Faculty Simon Surowicz Adjunct Faculty Betsy West Fred W. Friendly Professor of Professional Practice in Media Society Emeritus See all faculty TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.