Journalism Degree Programs | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs M.S. Data JRN Programs Programs Degree programs that meet the needs of both new and experienced journalists Jump to: Areas of Study Compare M.S., M.S. Data & M.A. Degree Programs Explore Our Classes Knight-Bagehot Fellowship Spencer Fellowship Areas of Study Data Documentary Investigative Multimedia Broadcast Business Audio Arts Politics International Science Writing Compare M.S., M.S. Data & M.A. M.S. Who should apply: Applicants with zero to three years of experience Career changers Practicing journalists looking to develop new skills and take their work to higher levels Applicants can work in multiple platforms and have the following options: General M.S., dual degree and part‐time programs Specializations in investigative and documentary journalism M.S. INFORMATION APPLY M.S. Data Who should apply: Applicants with an interest in reporting data-driven stories Applicants with zero to three years of experience Practicing journalists looking to develop new skills and take their work to higher levels Applicants can work in multiple platforms and have the following options: Take foundational computational and data courses as well as a course on the fundamentals of reporting Seminar & Production courses with a data focus and produce a Data Master's project. M.S. IN DATA INFORMATION APPLY M.A. Who should apply: Experienced journalists with three to 15 years experience who want to go deeper into a specialized subject area, further hone their skills and advance their careers Applicants choose from the following areas of concentration: Arts & Culture Business & Economics Politics Science M.A. INFORMATION APPLY Degree Programs M.S. The Master of Science degree is the foundational program of the Journalism School. M.S. students are on the street reporting from day one; learning to think critically and work ethically. M.S. students take courses on doing journalism on multiple platforms (audio, video or multimedia, broadcast, print and online). The program does not offer specializations by medium, but it has specials tracks for those who want to focus on investigative reporting and documentary. LEARN MORE M.S. In Data JRN M.S. In Data Journalism students begin their program in the summer, taking foundational computational and data courses as well as a course on the fundamentals of reporting. Unlike the general M.S. and M.A. tracks, data journalism students spend an extra semester at the school. LEARN MORE M.A. The Master of Arts equips experienced journalists with the expertise to cover specific subject areas in a sophisticated, nuanced manner. M.A. students study with specialists in their area of concentration and take related graduate-level courses outside the Journalism School. LEARN MORE Dual Degrees The Journalism School offers dual degree opportunities with other Columbia departments and with two international programs. Students can apply for dual degrees in computer science, international and public affairs, business, religion and law. LEARN MORE Ph.D. The Doctor of Philosophy in Communications prepares students to teach in colleges and universities, to conduct original research in communications or to carry out policy or research work. Ph.D. students study the relationships between people and media in their cultural, social, political, historical, economic and technological contexts. LEARN MORE Explore Our Classes Interested in video, narrative writing or international issues? Want to work with data, cover politics or investigate health care? Our classes cover the fundamentals of reporting and allow you to explore new ways of storytelling that will advance your ability to work in the evolving field of journalism. SEE CLASS DESCRIPTIONS Knight-Bagehot Fellowship The Knight‐Bagehot Fellowship in Economics and Business Journalism offers qualified journalists the opportunity to enhance their understanding and knowledge of business, economics and finance in a yearlong, full‐time program administered by the journalism school. Spencer Fellowship The Spencer Fellowship offers an extraordinary opportunity for journalists and educators in- and outside of the U.S. to spend an academic year at Columbia University researching and producing journalism about a significant topic in education. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.