Graduation | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Admissions Student Life Graduation Graduation Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To attend any Commencement activity or event on Morningside campus, all graduates, visiting alumni and guests over the age of five must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status and provide full proof of COVID-19 vaccination. Anyone who is unable to be vaccinated for medical, religious, or other reasons will be required to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test (an at-home antigen test on the day of each event or PCR test within 48 hours of the first attended event). Additionally, unvaccinated guests over the age of two must wear a face mask during all events. Note that this event is dependent on the status of the University's COVID-19 Monitoring Plan. Jump to: Graduation Information Sessions Diploma Application Verification 2022 University Commencement Journalism School Graduation Ceremony Journalism Day Caps & Gowns International Students - Guest Invitations Graduation Information Sessions Student Life will hold two sessions where students can learn about the various graduation events, grading and honors, awards and more. Tuesday, April 12, 7-8 p.m. (Virtual) Wednesday, April 13, 1-2 p.m. (In-person) - Stabile Student Center Diploma Application Verification To check that your diploma application has been received, please log in to SSOL. Once logged in, please refer to the "Your Data" section on the right. Under "Academic Records" you will find "Degree Application Status." If your status has not been updated to reflect the submission by the end of April, please let us know. If you do not have an application listed there, you MUST complete an Application for Degree or Certificate (form download at bottom of page), print, sign and return it to the Diploma Division in 210 Kent Hall. You can also save the form and submit it electronically to diplomas@columbia.edu. 2022 University Commencement 2022 University Commencement The Columbia University Commencement ceremony of the 268th academic year, will take place on Wednesday, May 18, 2022 at 10:30 a.m. (EDT). All eligible May and August 2022 degree candidates are encouraged to join in on the celebration. Wednesday, May 18, 2022 10:30 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. (seating begins for guests at 8:30 a.m.) Location: Morningside Campus Registration required Each graduating student receives up to two (2) tickets for fully-vaccinated guests Caps and gowns are mandatory Register: Via Link TBA on April 13 Columbia University Commencement website Journalism School Graduation Ceremony Wednesday, May 18, 2:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. Ancell Plaza - Amsterdam Avenue, New York, NY 10027 Guests: Each May 2022 graduating student receives up to two (2) tickets for fully-vaccinated guests Attire: Business; no caps and gowns Register: Eventbrite email - Deadline April 15, 11:00 p.m Journalism School graduates will hear from the recipient of the Columbia Journalism Award, the school's highest honor, presented annually to a journalist for distinguished service to a profession. SPJ Columbia chapter president Tanika D'Souza will also speak at the Journalism School Graduation Ceremony. Guests with disabilities, limited mobility, the elderly requiring assistance, or those needing sign language interpretation should e-mail Julie Pozo-Cepeda. Journalism Day Tuesday, May 17, 2022, 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Miller Theatre Guests: No guest allowed (open to students and faculty only) Attire: Business; no caps and gowns The annual Pringle Lecture is delivered and student prizes are awarded. Prize winners will be recognized again in front of their families and guests during the Journalism School Graduation Ceremony on Wednesday. The general program is: Introduction by Dean Steve Coll 2022 Henry Pringle Lecture by Ari Berman, senior reporter at Mother Jones Awarding of student prizes Class photo shoot Caps & Gowns Regalia is mandatory for the 2022 University Commencement Ceremony. Order your cap, gown and everything you need to celebrate your achievement. Master’s Degree regalia orders can be placed in-store starting March 8. Online orders may be placed beginning March 14 and ending April 27 to be directly shipped to the student by visiting columbia.shopoakhalli.com. Doctoral Degrees regalia may be reserved in stores from March 8 through April 11th without incurring a late fee. In-store pickup and ship-to-home options are available. Online orders may be placed beginning March 14 and ending April 11 by visiting columbia.shopoakhalli.com. Doctoral rental regalia will be available for pickup in-store beginning May 5. A ship-to-home option is not available online. Class Ring and Announcements Class rings and personalized graduation announcements may be ordered through our graduation partner Balfour. Traditional announcements may be purchased at the bookstore International Students - Guest Invitations The Journalism School does not issue invitation letters for students' family members or friends. If you need an invitation letter to invite your friends and family to the ceremonies, you can request one by contacting the International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) via this link. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School