Dual Degree Programs | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Dual Degrees Dual Degree Programs Dual Degree Programs Gain skills and perspectives in fields outside journalism. The Journalism School offers several dual degree programs through other schools and programs at Columbia and abroad. Jump to: Dual Degree Options Journalism & Computer Science Journalism & International Public Affairs Journalism & Law Journalism & Business Journalism & Religion International Programs Explore Our Programs Dual Degree Options The Journalism School offers a number of combined or dual degree programs in conjunction with other professional schools at Columbia. These programs give Journalism School students the opportunity to pursue studies in related fields and tap into the full resources of the University. Each Columbia dual degree program leads to the awarding of two professional degrees. Under some of the programs, students can earn the two degrees in less time than if they pursued them separately. Students enrolled for dual degrees with SIPA, Law, Business and the GSAS Religion (Graduate School of Arts and Science) program spend an academic year at the Journalism School. During this time, they fulfill all of their Journalism School requirements for graduation. They follow the same course of study as single-degree full-time M.S. students. It is not possible to fulfill degree requirements for another program while enrolled at the Journalism School unless that program counts Journalism School course credits towards its degree requirements. The Journalism School also offers two international dual degree programs. Journalism & Computer Science The Journalism School and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science offer a dual Master of Science degree program in Computer Science and Journalism. This program is designed to prepare a new generation of professionals with skills in the technical aspects of both digital media and news production. Learn more about the M.S. Journalism/Computer Science dual degree. Journalism & International Public Affairs The Journalism School and the School of International and Public Affairs offer a program leading to the degrees of Master of Science in Journalism and Master of International Affairs. A minimum of two years is required for the course work, and the student may spend the first year at either school. In the School of International and Public Affairs, the 30‐credit program includes courses in international affairs, economics, stastics and, perhaps, area studies. The program at the Journalism School requires a minimum of 37 credits of study. Check with the School of International and Public Affairs Admissions Office for information on their admission requirements and deadlines. Learn more about the M.S. in Journalism and Master of International Affairs (MIA). Journalism & Law This joint program between the Journalism School and the School of Law permits students to earn both the Juris Doctor and the Master of Science degree in journalism over seven semesters. The School of Law accepts up to 12 academic credits toward the J.D. degree for work completed at the Journalism School. Check with the Law School Office of Admission for information on their admission requirements and deadlines. For more details about the M.S./J.D. program, contact Robert Ford, Director of Student Outreach at the Law School or Chanel Roche, Assistant Director of Student Life and Dual Degree Liaison at the Journalism School. Journalism & Business The Journalism School and the Business School offer a five-semester program leading to the degrees of Master of Science in journalism and Master of Business Administration. Designed for the student who is interested both in media organization and management and in business communications, the dual program requires the completion of 17 courses in the Business School curriculum and the M.S. program of two consecutive terms in the Journalism School. Check with the Business School for information on their admission requirements and deadlines. For more details about the M.S./M.B.A., please contact Columbia Business School Admissions at apply@gsb.columbia.edu or Chanel Roche, Assistant Director of Student Life and Dual Degree Liaison at the Journalism School. Journalism & Religion This program enables qualified candidates to receive two master’s degrees, one from the Journalism School (M.S.) and the other from the Department of Religion (M.A.), in two years of study. In the first year, students complete the journalism program, including the Covering Religion seminar or a comparable course. Credits earned for the religion course are also applied toward the religion program, which is completed in the second year. Students must complete two of the following Religion Department core courses in the second year: Theory and Method in the Study of Religion; Introduction to Asian Religions; or Introduction to Western Religions. Candidates must apply simultaneously to both schools and express their intention to pursue the dual program. For more details about the M.S./M.A. programs, contact Edwin Torres, Director of Academic Administration in the Department of Religion or Chanel Roche, Assistant Director of Student Life and Dual Degree Liaison at the Journalism School. International Programs Partnerships with Sciences Po in Paris and the University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg allow Columbia Journalism students to study in both New York City and abroad and receive degrees from two institutions. Applicants who are fluent in Spanish and unable to attend Columbia may be interested in the Universitat de Barcelona BCNY Journalism program. Learn more about international programs. Explore Our Programs Learn about our M.S., M.A. and Ph.D. programs. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.