M.A., Politics Concentration | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Master of Arts M.A., Politics Concentration M.A., Politics Concentration Explore power and government the world over Whether you intend to cover local government or international conflict, every political journalist needs a framework for understanding how politics works. Jump to: What You'll Study Faculty Student Work What You'll Study The M.A. Politics concentration aims to teach students how to think more deeply about social and politics affairs. The program is designed to add to students’ toolbox of skills by showing them the way in which social scientists approach a range of social, political and economic problems. Unlike a program in international affairs or political science, the program is geared specifically to journalists and all writing is journalistic. The in-depth immersion in the latest scholarship on politics produces better political journalists — ones who are comfortable drawing on expert research to produce stores of greater depth and nuance. In the fall, students in the M.A. Politics seminar will learn about the formation of the nation state — why it won out over sprawling, multi-ethnic empires or city states. We use this rich scholarship to help us understand why there is not a coherent central state in Afghanistan or Somalia. Students will learn about the origins of nationalism: why are people willing to die — and kill — for something (the nation) that made little sense to people of earlier centuries? They use that understanding to decode emerging situations of ethnic conflict, resurgent nationalism and populism. The seminar also examines the dynamics of collective behavior — what happens when people get together to effect change, and under what circumstances do political and social movements succeed or fail? Scholars from relevant fields and journalists covering these issues will visit the class on a regular basis. Recent guests have included Cornell behavioral economist Robert Frank, journalist William Finnegan and historian Mahmood Mamdani. The spring semester focuses on political institutions. Just about everywhere in the world, there are political parties, interest groups, legislatures, executives, judiciaries, regulatory agencies and so on. The seminar looks at how these developed and the varied forms they take, using the United States as the primary, but not exclusive, example. Readings are a mix of political theory, empirical political science and journalism. Assignments aim to teach students to understand the political personalities and events that journalists cover in an institutional context. Recent guests include journalist Emily Bazelon and political scientist Robert Y. Shapiro. Faculty Nicholas Lemann Alexander Stille Student Work Roads & Kingdoms published an account of journeying to the former Islamic Caliphate in Bangladesh, a story that began as a '17 M.A. Master’s Thesis by Siddharthya Roy. Amy Lieberman, '14 M.A. Politics, wrote her thesis on Arizona's immigration patrol rebellion. Read the published article in Slate. Javier Sauras, '16 M.A. Politics, published several stories stemming from his Master's Thesis, about a program in Bolivia that combines modern maternity medicine with traditional indigenous practices. How One Bolivian Hospital is Battling Maternal Mortality - By Reaching Back Thousands of Years Katie Worth, '15 M.A. Politics, revealed the imprecise science of DNA testing in court in her Master's thesis, which was co-published Frontline, The Marshall Project and Fusion. Read the published article in Fusion. See more student work Alumni Work Casey Parks, '18 M.A. Politics, is a contributor to The New Yorker and a reporter for The Hechinger Report where she covers Louisiana's and Mississippi's education systems. Her latest piece, "A College Degree More Than Fifteen Years In The Making" captures the story of single mother of two and her quest to earn a college degree from a historically black university in Mississippi. Abdi Latif Dahir, '16 M.A. Politics, is a reporter with Quartz covering East Africa from Nairobi. Abdi has written about China's deepening reach in Africa, the intersection of technology and geopolitics, and how local and global companies are identifying and making innovative solutions to local problems. Tim Fitzsimons, '18 M.A. Politics, is currently a reporter for NBC News, covering LGBT news for NBC Out. He has recently reported on the first transgender person to win a major party’s nomination for governor, a gay ex-Mormon seeking to shake up Utah politics and the history of a 1968 victory for LGBT rights that predated the Stonewall riots by one year. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.