Scholarships & Financial Aid | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Admissions Where to Begin Scholarships and Financial Aid Scholarships and Financial Aid A graduate education is a major investment in your future. About 80 percent of our students receive some sort of financial aid, including grants, loans or scholarships to cover the cost of attendance. The Journalism School’s Office of Admission and Financial Aid and the Columbia University Student Financial Services work together to meet the needs of each student. Jump to: Scholarships & Fellowships Student Loans Federal Work Study Aid for Veterans Financial Aid Timeline Financial Literacy Guides Frequently Asked Questions Scholarships & Fellowships The Journalism School is proud to offer several million dollars annually in fellowships and scholarships for both domestic and international students. (Learn more about median scholarship awards by program.) Allocations of fellowships and scholarships are based on: Merit, as determined by the Admission Committee Financial need, as determined by the applicant’s current Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and the Graduate School of Journalism Scholarship Aid Form Guidelines specified by individual donors To apply for Journalism School scholarships and fellowships, applicants must submit the following forms by January 15: Graduate School of Journalism Scholarship Aid Form Note: To access this form you must log in to our online application system. 2020-21 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) (U.S. citizens and permanent residents only) Continuing students must submit these forms every academic year. Outside Scholarships Many financial resources exist in addition to those offered by the Journalism School. We urge students to research outside scholarships thoroughly and to apply for all appropriate scholarships or fellowships. Many college alumni societies offer scholarship funding for graduate studies. Community organizations, chambers of commerce, local newspapers and religious organizations often provide information and/or funding. International students should check with the EducationUSA office(s) in their countries. The Office of Admission and Financial Aid maintains a list of opportunities that will help start your search. Ph.D. Students Ph.D. candidates are automatically considered for scholarship aid and do not have to submit a Scholarship Aid Form. Student Loans While student loans may be used to mitigate educational expenses, they are, nevertheless, loans that must be repaid after graduation or after you cease to be enrolled halftime in a degree-granting program. For this reason, we strongly urge you to be as prudent as possible when borrowing and to understand fully the terms and conditions of any loan that you may borrow. Federal Student Loans Two main types offered by the United States government: Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans Students do not need to demonstrate financial need. Interest is charged from the time the loan is disbursed until it is paid in full. Students have the option of paying this interest while in school or capitalizing the interest. Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loans Students with a good credit history may be eligible for PLUS loans that assist in meeting the cost of attendance. Amounts, eligibility requirements, terms and conditions are predetermined by federal guidelines. To be considered for federal loans, a student must be a U.S. citizen, permanent resident or an eligible non-citizen taking at least six credits per semester. To apply for federal loans, students must complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and submit other required forms. Before receiving a loan, students will be required to complete: Entrance counseling Master Promissory Note (MPN). More information about these and other Federal loans and how to apply for one can be found in the University's Graduate Financial Aid overview. Private Loans Private student loans are offered by different private banks. Amounts, eligibility requirements, terms and conditions are predetermined by each financial institution. More information about private loans can be found in the University's Graduate Financial Aid overview. When applying, the required School code is 002707. The Branch code is 08. Federal Work Study Part-time students may be eligible for financial assistance through the Federal Work-Study program. Aid varies in amounts and by school and is awarded based on need. MORE INFORMATION Aid for Veterans Veteran members of the armed forces and their family members may be eligible for financial aid and other benefits. MORE INFORMATION Financial Aid Timeline By Jan. 15 Apply for Journalism School scholarships and fellowships. By May 1 Apply for student loans, preferably 90 days before semester starts. As early as possible Research loan options Research outside scholarships Review your credit history Obtain a co-signer, if necessary   Financial Literacy Guides These tools can help you determine your budget needs and plan for the future. General Budgeting Information Federal Loan Repayment Options Federal Loan Repayment Estimator Frequently Asked Questions Further information to help you understand the process. READ MORE TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.