Journalism & Computer Science | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Journalism & Computer Science Explore the frontiers of journalism with cutting-edge tools and techniques. The dual degree program in Journalism and Computer Science prepares students for robust opportunities in both fields, including designing and building platforms, algorithms and applications for journalism or pursuing research and development work in computer science related to journalism, natural language processing and the digital humanities. Jump to: Overview Who Should Apply Curriculum Class Timeline Contact Overview The program offers the highest caliber of computer science and journalism training at Columbia University. Students enroll for a total of four semesters at the Journalism and Engineering schools, learning the fundamentals of reporting and writing while developing a working background in computer science and software design. This program aims to provide students with a thorough understanding of how particular fields of computer science relate to journalism practice. Our goal is to train a new generation of computationally literate journalists (or journalistically literate computer scientists) who will redefine journalism as we know it. APPLY Who Should Apply The program seeks applicants with outstanding undergraduate records, including a strong background in computer science, extensive mathematics or engineering training. Equally important: applicants should have excellent writing skills and be familiar with the fundamentals of reporting. Graduates will be poised to become leaders in digital media production and innovation. Applicants must be accepted into both the Journalism School and the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science. Applications are submitted to the Fu Foundation School of Engineering. APPLY Curriculum Students in the program enroll in the same classes offered to all students at the Journalism and Engineering Schools. Their specialized training allows them to develop technical and editorial skills in all aspects of computer‐supported news gathering and digital media production. At the Journalism School, the program is administered by the Tow Center for Digital Journalism. Students study the skills, art and ethics of journalism by reporting and writing stories that range from short news pieces to complex narrative features. They learn to think critically and deeply; to be both ethical and street smart, using New York City as their laboratory. At the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, students receive technical training ranging from data mining to database system design, advanced software engineering, user interface design, computer graphics, security and networking. Faculty and students work together to create technologies that synthesize raw data into relevant content for news organizations to present in an attractive, secure and accessible form for readers. During the second year, students take the Frontiers of Computational Journalism seminar designed specifically for the dual degree program. The seminar uses a hands‐on approach to delve into areas of computer science that have a direct relevance to journalism. It tackles diverse topics such as information recommendation systems and filter bubbles; the principles of statistical analysis and the human processes that generate data; network analysis and its role in investigative journalism; visualization techniques and the cognitive effects involved in viewing a visualization. Explore Journalism School classes Explore Computer Science classes Class Timeline First Year / Fall Semester Reporting Journalism Essentials Written Word module One computer science class First Year / Spring Semester Four computer science classes One Image & Sound or Investigative Techniques module Second Year / Fall Semester Frontiers of Computational Journalism Master’s Project One Image & Sound or Investigative Technologies module Two computer science classes Second Year / Spring Semester Seminar & Production class Master’s Project Two computer science classes Contact Columbia Journalism School Office of Admission and Financial Aid If you have any questions, please contact Professor Emily Bell. The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Office of Graduate Student Affairs If you have any questions, contact Professor Eugene Wu. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.