A Letter from the Dean on the Passing of Richard Wald | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home News A Letter from the Dean on the Passing of Richard Wald Professor Emeritus Richard Wald with his wife, Edith. Photo courtesy of Betsy West. A Letter from the Dean on the Passing of Richard Wald May 13, 2022 Share More to Explore Careers Classes Degree Programs Faculty Stay Connected Dear Members of the J-School Community, I write with the sad news that Professor Emeritus Richard Wald, a leader in national broadcast journalism who had an impactful second act at our school as a teacher and professional ethicist, died earlier today at the age of 92 after a sudden and brief illness. All who knew Dick remember his kindness and his thoughtful understanding of ethics and standards in professional journalism, as well as his deep knowledge of American government and politics. In Pulitzer Hall, he was impossible to miss – a tall, elegant figure in bespoke suits from London that still fit him well many years after their acquisition. His son Jonathan, an adjunct professor who sometimes co-taught ethics classes with him, noted as well that he somehow always managed to talk his way into parking his car on College Walk. Over the years, Dick taught ethics to hundreds of J-school students in the fall and summer semesters, and in the spring, students vied to get into his wildly popular National Affairs Reporting class. Though he believed they signed up because of the field trips to Albany or Washington, the real draw was Dick himself. A renowned raconteur, he also connected his students with a career's worth of contacts, guests who helped him illuminate the issues playing out on the national stage: religious leaders, ambassadors, local government officials, heads of major news organizations, beat reporters, even - as one student noted in an evaluation - the owner of a grocery store. Professor Emeritus Betsy West, Dick’s immediate successor as the school’s Fred Friendly Professor for media and society, remembers him as “a vigorous supporter of the broadcast and later documentary programs. Prior to Columbia, I knew him as my boss for many years at ABC News starting in the mid 80's. Though he had ascended to the role of TV executive, Dick was at heart a reporter: curious about the world, skeptical of conventional thinking, and devoted to getting the story right. Unflappable and sensible, he was the person to consult during a crisis or ethical quandary, as I did so many times when he was at ABC and after when he had become my colleague and friend.” Born in Manhattan, Dick was educated at Stuyvesant High and Columbia College, where he served on the editorial board of The Spectator. He began his career at the New York Herald-Tribune, where he served as a foreign correspondent in London, Bonn and Africa before becoming the paper’s managing editor. He worked with such trailblazers of “new journalism” as Jimmy Breslin, Gail Sheehy and Tom Wolfe. Edith Wald, Dick’s wife of 67 years, passed last year. In addition to Jonathan, Dick is survived by his son Matthew and his daughter Elizabeth, as well as seven grandchildren and one great-grandson. He will be dearly missed. We’ll keep you posted about memorials to come. Steve Share More to Explore Careers Classes Degree Programs Faculty Stay Connected TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.