M.A., Arts & Culture Concentration | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Master of Arts M.A., Arts & Culture Concentration M.A., Arts & Culture Concentration Examine the arts from all angles. Develop the habits of mind, skills and flexibility to be a cultural reporter or critic in the fullest sense. Jump to: What You'll Study Faculty Student Work What You'll Study M.A. students in the Arts & Culture concentration develop historical knowledge, contextual understanding and nimble thinking across a range of disciplines. Through reporting and writing assignments as well as extensive reading, case studies, visits to exhibits and performances, and collaborations with scholars and artists, students examine the emotional force of the arts as well as how they function in social and political contexts and as commodities in a global marketplace. Students work to find news value in the arts without buying into hype and buzz. With close editing from their professors, they work on prose matters like tone of voice, scene setting, argumentative development, rhythm and imagery. They sharpen their abilities to write on the arts with authority, earned analysis, clarity, contextual perspective and grace. In the fall semester, the Arts & Culture seminar engages many enduring questions that are foundational to this broad beat: What is art? What is culture? Who is an artist? What are cultural rights? What is creativity? How does critical theory help us understand cultural phenomena? Where do classifications often invoked in the arts come from and how are they useful? How do the arts themselves represent history and culture? Experts from Columbia and elsewhere help guide us in our inquiries, among them, the cultural anthropology professor Paige West, human rights legal scholar Kendall Thomas, artist and arts education professor Olga Hubard Orvananos, experimental film scholar Ronald Gregg, and historian and journalism professor Jelani Cobb. Meanwhile, students cover an international fall arts festival in the city, writing news features, reviews, and critical essays; develop a team podcast project; and write a longform complex profile of an artist. In the spring, without abandoning the aesthetic and theoretical concerns addressed in the fall, the course turns to more direct examinations of issues related to arts and culture policy, economics, and politics: art markets, public and private funding, creative economies, ownership questions, and the role of the arts in diplomacy, protest movements and state propaganda. We look at various ways the arts are engaged for some kind of utilitarian purpose — from economic development to the social development of "at-risk youth," from heightening spiritual engagement to lowering blood pressure. For these investigations, our faculty partners include intellectual property expert and law professor Jane Ginsburg, curator and art consultant Jonathan Binstock, religion professor Josef Sorrett and literature and Latin American Studies professor Frances Negrón Muntaner. Students continue to work on their writing — this semester, with special emphasis on critical writing. They also team up for a group investigative cultural reporting project. Faculty David Hajdu Alisa Solomon Student Work Jeremy Olds, '17 M.A. Arts & Culture, tells the story of an unlikely art collective on Tennessee's death row in his Master's Thesis, which was published by The Marshall Project. For the M.A. Arts & Culture Fall Seminar with Prof. Alisa Solomon, students wrote wide-ranging reviews and reports covering the French Institute Alliance Française (FIAF) Crossing the Line Festival. Their work was published by the website Hyperallergic. Vanessa Quirk, '15 M.A. Arts & Culture, wrote her Master's Thesis about an underground park called the Lowline in New York City. It was published in Atlas Obscura. Read about how the work came together. Carmen Graciela Díaz, '15 M.A. Arts & Culture, wrote about theater in Hungary during a funded reporting trip with 12 other students. Read her feature article. See more student work Alumni Work Chris Ip, '14 M.A. Arts & Culture, is the Associate Features Editor at Engadget where he covers culture and technology. He has recently published stories on tech's intersection with mixed martial arts, implicit racial bias, and improvisational jazz piano. Maria Garcia, '17 M.A. Arts & Culture, is the senior editor and reporter of arts and culture at WBUR, Boston's NPR News. She guides more than a dozen reporters on how to craft arts and culture stories for the radio and online that intersect with race, equity, science and universal questions. Maria recently profiled a contemporary artist who seeks to alter the way people think of American history and she reported on efforts to encourage diversity in the casting of plays and in the curation of a concert series. Kristen V. Brown, '12 M.A. Arts & Culture, is a biotechnology reporter for Bloomberg News in San Francisco, covering the future of health on the West Coast and beyond. Since becoming a biotech reporter in 2016, Kristen has chronicled the rise of consumer genetic testing, DIY gene hackingand synthetic biology. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.