The Scholarship Campaign for Columbia Journalism School | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home About Us The Scholarship Campaign for Columbia Journalism School The Scholarship Campaign for Columbia Journalism School To Ensure Access and Promote Excellence in Journalism Gifts from alumni and friends enable Columbia Journalism School to educate the next generation of journalists, diversify the student body in every way and help the dramatically changing profession meet its potential and uphold standards of ethical reporting. By making a gift to the Annual Fund or to support other initiatives, you can participate in the school’s philanthropic campaign, which you can read more about here. Thank you for your generosity. MAKE A GIFT Jump to: Spring Challenge Annual Fund The Dean's Circle Planned Giving Other Gifts of Support Spring Challenge JOIN THE SPRING CHALLENGE: Double your impact April 1st through May 15th! Join your classmates in supporting our annual Spring Challenge! Up to $95,000 in Journalism Annual Fund gifts will be matched at a 1:1 ratio thanks to the generosity of a group of alumni challenge sponsors. Make your gift by May 15 to qualify for the match and support our students. Your gift is essential to supporting next year’s class and making the best journalism school in the world available to every qualified student, no matter the financial need. Click here to make a gift or reach out to Cynthia Helton at cynthia.helton@columbia.edu for more information! Thank you to our generous challenge sponsors: Traute and Gene Gleeson ’73, The Goldhirsh Foundation, Dominic Bencivenga ’87, and DeWitt Rogers ’75. Annual Fund The Journalism School seeks to enroll the very best students, regardless of their economic circumstances. Contributions from alumni and friends to the Annual Fund primarily provide scholarship support. Every gift to the Annual Fund – no matter the size – makes an immediate and palpable difference in our students’ lives. Please consider supporting Columbia Journalism School today. MAKE A GIFT. For more information, email Emilie Dufour or call her at 212-851-7766. The Dean's Circle Members of the Dean’s Circle demonstrate philanthropic leadership and enthusiastic commitment to the Journalism School that inspires others. Donors qualify for the Dean's Circle with cumulative gifts of $1,000 or more ($500 for graduates from the last 10 years) to the Annual Fund within a given fiscal year (July 1 to June 30). Dean’s Circle members who give $5,000 or above to the Annual Fund in a single year may have a scholarship named in their honor or in honor of an individual of the donor’s choosing. MAKE A GIFT. For more information about supporting the Annual Fund through the Dean’s Circle, please email Cynthia Helton or call her at 212-854-8634. Planned Giving Planned gifts, including bequests and life income gifts, are designed to help meet your financial and charitable goals while supporting Columbia Journalism School in the long term. Here is a selection of different Planned Giving options, for more details please visit the University's Office of Gift Planning website here or contact Janine Jaquet. · Include a Bequest in Your Will · Name Columbia Journalism School as a Beneficiary · IRA Charitable Rollover · Establish a Life Income Plan · Establish a Donor Advised Fund Other Gifts of Support The Journalism School has numerous opportunities for alumni and friends to provide support for faculty, students and our historic building. For more information, please email Janine Jaquet or call her at 212-854-1148. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School