Employers | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Careers Employers Employers Let us help you find the best journalist for the job. Whether you’re looking for newcomers to the profession or for seasoned professionals, the Office of Career Development has many ways to connect you to current students and graduates around the world. We are eager to hear about opportunities in your newsrooms throughout the year. We have an excellent pool of candidates for staff jobs, paid internships, fellowships, freelance and part‐time positions. Jump to: Recruiting Year Round Looking to Hire? Use JobNews Career Expo Internships Meet Our Students Contact Us Recruiting Year Round Interview Days Employers who would like to interview our students are welcome to schedule a visit to campus or arrange virtual interview sessions. We will provide a meeting location, notify students and assist you in scheduling interviews. Meet the Media If you'd like to tell students about your company, we host in-person and virtual brown‐bag informational sessions with students all year. Career Expo Meet our students at our virtual journalism job fair. Learn more about the Career Expo. JobNews Promote your newsroom opportunities for free on JobNews, our password-protected job platform, accessible by our current students and alumni. To set up your recruiting efforts, please contact Lauren Mack, Program Manager, Office of Career Development. Looking to Hire? Use JobNews JobNews, our password-protected job board, is updated daily and is offered as a no‐fee courtesy to media employers. We encourage you to open an account and post jobs, paid internships and freelance positions to reach our current students and alumni of every experience level and skill set. Setting up an account takes just a few minutes. Click here to get your JobNews account. Contact us for questions or if you would like us to assist you with setting up your account. Career Expo The annual spring Career Expo is open exclusively to graduating students at Columbia Journalism School. The Career Expo showcases the wide range of news organizations operating today, from legacy media to digital startups and international, national, regional and hyperlocal outlets, general news, single issue/topic-focused and investigative websites producing content in a variety of media, including text, video, photo, audio and data visualizations. The Career Expo takes place every spring and is limited to the graduating students of Columbia Journalism School. Amid the Covid-19 crisis, we held our third Virtual Career Expo in spring 2022 with 410 recruiters and 189 news outlets – the biggest Expo in the school's history. We held our first Virtual Expo in spring 2020 with 232 editors, producers and recruiters from 130 news outlets and our second Virtual Career Expo in spring 2021 with 416 editors, producers and recruiters from 147 news outlets. In 2019, 158 news outlets took part in the Career Expo on campus. Details for Career Expo 2023 will be announced soon. Internships Students enrolled in our part‐time program frequently do internships while at the Journalism School. Only a few students in our full‐time degree programs are able to manage internships and the time they can commit is very limited. The Journalism School does not offer academic credit for internships. If you have an internship to fill, please post on JobNews and provide a full description of the scope of work and hours required. The Office of Career Development will not post openings that are primarily administrative and are not newsgathering in nature. Internships must comply with U.S. Department of Labor regulations. The Journalism School reserves the right to refuse publication of any job notices. We do not accept listings for marketing or public relations internships, or from non‐news media companies seeking candidates for positions unrelated to journalism. We do not accept blind postings. If you're seeking candidates with broader interests, the following Columbia University Career Development offices may be able to offer assistance with getting the word out about the employment opportunities. You may consider posting the job description on each of the University's job boards. Columbia University Center for Career Education | LionSHARE email: careereducation@columbia.edu Barnard College | Beyond Barnard email: beyondbarnard@barnard.edu Columbia Business School | Career Management Center Columbia Law School | Office of Career Services email: careerservices@law.columbia.edu Graduate School of Arts and Sciences | GSAS Compass Mailman School fo Public Health | CareerLink email: msphocs@cumc.columbia.edu School of International and Public Affairs | SIPAlink email: sipa_ocs@sipa.columbia.edu School of Professional Studies | Career Design Lab email: CareerDesignLab@columbia.edu School of Social Work | Career Connect email: swcareer@columbia.edu Teachers College | TC Next email: careereducation@tc.columbia.edu Meet Our Students Whether you have jobs, internships, contract positions or are open to freelance story pitches now or in the future, you’ll find what you’re looking for at Columbia Journalism School. The Career Expo takes place every spring and is limited to the graduating students of Columbia Journalism School. The Journalism School is a graduate school at Columbia University that confers Master of Science and Master of Arts degrees to more than 300 students each year. Our students are a pluralistic, multilingual and multinational group with diverse life experiences, journalistic interests and skills. They will enrich your newsrooms and communities as they venture forth to tell deeper, more complete stories that matter. This year’s group includes military veterans, former lawyers, teachers and business analysts, recent undergraduates, journalists with significant experience and many others. Our students are trained in reporting across all media platforms, with a range of skills, including text, video, photo, audio and digital production, investigative techniques, data-driven reporting, interactive graphics, computer programming and audience engagement. All students graduate with a toolbox of investigative skills, including how to obtain and analyze public records and data and get information about individuals and groups using a variety of sources and social media for reporting and verification. M.S. Journalism includes students in the Stabile Investigative and Documentary specializations. The Documentary specialization is a three-semester program in which students produce a short documentary film in their final semester. M.S. Data Journalism in which students collect, process and analyze data for stories and visualizations. Three-semester program. M.A. Journalism includes experienced journalists concentrating on the coverage of Arts & Culture, Business & Economics, Politics or Science. Dual Degree Programs: students in the two-year Computer Science + Journalism program study at Columbia Journalism School and Columbia University's Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science and work with cutting-edge tools at the intersection of journalism and technology. Columbia Journalism School also offers the following dual degrees giving Journalism School students the opportunity to pursue studies in related fields: Journalism and International Public Affairs, Journalism and Law, Journalism and Business, and Journalism and Religion. Knight-Bagehot Fellowship in Economics and Business Journalism includes students who are experienced business reporters and editors from across the U.S. and the world who take courses at Columbia Business School and other Columbia graduate schools to enhance their knowledge of economics, business and finance. The Class of 2022 by the Numbers, as of Fall 2021: 265 M.S. Journalism students, including students in Stabile Investigative, Documentary and Visual Craft specializations 21 M.S. Data Journalism students 52 M.A. Journalism students, who concentrate on the coverage of Arts & Culture, Business & Economics, Politics or Science 4 Dual Degree in Journalism and Computer Science students 1 Dual Degree in Journalism and International Affairs student 10 Knight-Bagehot Fellows in Economics and Business Journalism 4 Spencer Fellows 23 Ph.D. in Communications students 45 Countries represented (37% of the class are international students) #CJSInclusion Contact Us Office of Career Development, Columbia Journalism School Email: cujcareers@columbia.edu Phone: 212-854-4422 Need help with JobNews, recruiting or registering for the Career Expo? Contact Lauren Mack, Program Manager: lem2111@columbia.edu. Join the Career Expo Mailing List. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.