Postgraduate Fellowships | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Postgraduate Fellowships Postgraduate Fellowships We offer full-time fellowships that give recent Columbia Journalism School graduates the opportunity to dig deep into subjects of public interest and to publish their work in professional news outlets. Fellows work for Columbia Journalism Investigations and produce investigative and enterprise beat reporting on a range of issues including global migration and immigration. Jump to: Investigative Reporting Fellowships Funding for Investigative Reporting Other Postgraduate Fellowships Investigative Reporting Fellowships CJI is a team of leading investigative journalists, Columbia University faculty, graduate students, postgraduate fellows, coders and others who conduct deep investigations into urgent issues of public interest, without respect to beat. Learn more » These postgraduate fellowships are specific to international investigations and migration, respectively: Cross Borders Data Project Offers recent graduates the opportunity to apply their data and investigative skills to produce global stories of public interest. Learn more » Global Migration Project Reporting opportunities on gender and migration, focusing on U.S. immigration law, border politics, international refugee policy and more. Learn more » Read archived stories from our fellowships. Funding for Investigative Reporting The Investigative Reporting Resource at the Columbia Journalism School underwrites the reporting of students and recent graduates working individually and in teams, on a wide variety of subjects, on all platforms. At times, it may make scholarship gifts to students pursuing investigative reporting. The purpose of this resource is to advance in-depth reporting in the public interest. Donors include Anne and Greg Avis, Goldhirsh Foundation, The Tow Foundation, The Energy Foundation, Jeremy Levine and Yael Taqqu, Rockefeller Family Foundation, Dave and Kathy Scially, and Gruber Family Foundation. Among the fellowships that IRR supports is Columbia Journalism Investigations (CJI) and Cross Borders Data Project. Funding for CJI is also provided by the Ford Foundation. Read the school's philanthropic donations policy to learn more about the principles that apply to the school's partnerships with philanthropic donors, particularly when those donors fund journalism or research. Other Postgraduate Fellowships Columbia Journalism Review Delacorte Magazine Fellowship offers three reporters nine months to pitch, report, and write stories about journalism news and trends for cjr.org and its bi-annual print editions. In addition, the Fellows participate in the Delacorte Lecture, a series held in the spring semester that examine aspects of magazine journalism by a leader in the field of magazine publishing, and work on an ambitious research project with the goal of deepening the public’s understanding of some key aspect of the magazine industry. Learn more » TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School