M.A. Degree | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Master of Arts M.A. Degree M.A. Degree Depth. Rigor. Expertise. The Master of Arts program trains experienced journalists to go deeper and equips them with subject-area expertise, so they can explain complicated issues to the public. Students develop an intellectual grounding in their concentration that enables them to ask more informed questions, evaluate evidence for competing theories and produce sophisticated and nuanced stories. Jump to: Concentrations Who Should Apply Curriculum Course Schedule Explore Programs Concentrations Applicants choose from one of four concentrations: Arts & Culture Business & Economics Politics Science Who Should Apply The M.A. program is designed for journalists who have three to 15 years of professional journalism experience. We are looking for intellectually curious students with demonstrable reporting experience and strong writing. Applicants should be competent at the essential journalistic skills: research, interviewing and storytelling. Applicants do not need to have a background in the concentration to which they apply. We accept journalists who want to go deeper in a subject they already cover and those who want to shift focus to a new area. On rare occasion, we admit students with fewer than three years of experience, but only when they a have record of exceptional work. Curriculum Every M.A. student takes an intensive seminar pertaining to her concentration in both the fall and spring semesters. It's designed to build the crucial context and understanding that enables groundbreaking reporting. Each term, the seminar is taught by a journalism professor with extensive experience covering that specific concentration. Professors also bring in experts from Columbia and beyond to guest teach, resulting in an unparalleled level of depth and nuance. For instance, the Science seminar might spend one class session meeting with a medical researcher, the next examining journalism about that particular type of research and then a third critiquing student work on a related assignment. Throughout, the seminars combine deep subject instruction with high‐level journalistic mentoring. Each M.A. student also takes: Evidence and Inference This fall course, taken by the entire M.A. class, teaches a disciplined “journalistic method” of testing assumptions and making sure that reporting firmly proves its points. Students develop useful skills for working with statistics, using academic research and conducting in-depth interviews. They are also taught to carefully combine anecdote and narrative with the big picture in their writing. M.A. Essentials Investigative techniques are key to 21st century journalism. Students learn the best ways to comb public records, conduct internet forensics and do thorough background searches on individuals and companies. They gain an understanding of cutting edge concepts in data journalism and how to employ them in coverage of their concentrations. Three Subject-Area Courses Students may enroll in up to three graduate level courses offered anywhere at Columbia University, provided the courses will deepen their understanding of their chosen concentration. Business students must take Accounting and Corporate Finance as two of their three electives unless exempted by their concentration professor. Each student's individual course selections are approved by the faculty. The Master’s Thesis Every M.A. student undertakes a significant reporting project that results in a piece of longform journalism. The thesis gives students the opportunity to explore a topic in depth and to synthesize what they learn in a sophisticated manner. Graduates have published and aired their theses in top‐tier outlets such as Harper's, The New York Times, This American Life, The New Yorker and The Guardian. Course Schedule Fall Seminar‐in‐Concentration Evidence and Inference M.A. Essentials Subject-Area Course (Accounting for Business students) Master’s Thesis Spring Seminar‐in‐Concentration Two Subject-Area Courses (For Business students, Corporate Finance and one Subject-Area Course) Master’s Thesis Explore Programs LEARN ABOUT M.S., DUAL DEGREE AND PH.D. PROGRAMS. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.