International Journalism | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Areas of Study International Photo by Harriet Dedman '16 M.S. International Journalism — a profession that transcends borders. Courses in the M.S. and M.A. programs — as well as unique opportunities afforded by the Li Center for Global Journalism and partnerships with international programs — provide the foundation for reporting intelligently and safely on a complex world. Jump to: Overview International Postgraduate Opportunities Classes Student Work Faculty Overview J-School students learn as part of a truly international community – about 30 percent of those enrolled in the Journalism School come from outside the U.S. Recent classes have included students from Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Egypt, France, India, Kazakhstan, Lebanon, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Iceland, Iran, Israel, Macedonia, Mexico, New Zealand, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Syria, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda, U.K., Zimbabwe and many other countries. This diversity strengthens the learning experience in and out of the classroom. Lively discussion in an ethics class, for example, may start with a study of American conflicts of interest, then examine the challenges of reporting from Mexico, Pakistan or other countries where journalists face dangers just for doing their jobs. M.S. courses also focus on transnational subjects such as migration, human rights, world religions, national security and global media trends. Outside the classroom, #CJSGlobal programs brings students together for a wide range of events: informal discussions about international breaking news; a postcard campaign calling for release of imprisoned journalists; workshops on safety training; and panels on press freedom, covering conflict and working as a freelance foreign correspondent. Explore degree programs. APPLY International Postgraduate Opportunities Students have opportunities throughout the year to apply for international postgraduate programs, including a number of exclusive #CJSGlobal Journalism Fellowships. The Journalism School and the Graduate Journalism Program at Sciences Po in Paris offer a dual degree program that allows students to study in two hubs of journalism and receive degrees from both institutions. Other opportunities that are popular with our students include the Overseas Press Club Foundation scholarships, which send graduates overseas to report for The Associated Press, Reuters, The Wall Street Journal and others. These are open to applicants from colleges and universities across the U.S., but of the 16 scholarship winners in 2018, six were Columbia Journalism School students. Here are the #CJSGlobal Journalism Fellowships that are offered exclusively to our graduates: Exclusive opportunities at the Journalism School include the following (more information on both of these can be found here): Global Migration Project Reporting fellowships on gender and migration, focusing on U.S. immigration law, border politics, international refugee policy, and more. Cross-Borders Data Project Three six-month fellowships supervised by Prof. Giannina Segnini, director of the M.S. in Data Journalism. Other #CJSGlobal Exclusive Journalism Fellowships offered by media organizations: ABC News David Jayne Fellowship: Broadcast/digital reporting fellowship; 12 weeks in London. Airfare provided. Al Jazeera Media Network: Three-month fellowship starting in September provides an opportunity for two graduates to work at Al Jazeera's English headquarters in Doha, Qatar. Details pending. The Reuters Institute at University of Oxford: Oxford U.K.: A three-month fully-funded program for two graduates who wish to take advantage of the resources at Oxford and the Reuters Institute to work on a story or stories. Coda Story: Six-to-nine month journalism fellowship program in Tbilisi, Georgia. Eurasianet: Summer Editorial Associate who will focus on reporting on Eurasia, including Russia, Ukraine, the South Caucasus and Central Asia. Depending on the candidate, the editorial associate may do some reporting abroad. Grupo Clarín: Up to three interns based at Clarín/Clarín.com: Ten weeks in the summer in Buenos Aires. La Stampa: Two to three reporting interns for 12 weeks in summer; includes weekly salary, housing and transportation to Turin and Rome, Italy. Classes Journalism School students have a range of opportunities to study and report on international issues. In the M.S. program, several fall semester Reporting professors assign students to beats covering New York City's many ethnic communities; and the Friday classes on history, ethics, media law and business of journalism include discussions related to global media and international journalists. Spring classes offer additional international curriculum opportunities. The current class offerings include courses on using data to investigate across borders; on covering armies and spies around the world; and on covering global migration issues facing women and girls. Some M.S. students work on internationally-themed Master's Projects, and everyone in the Covering Religion class takes a trip abroad over Spring Break. Past destinations include Italy, Russia, Jordan and Palestine, India, and Israel. The M.A. seminars-in-concentration frequently cover international issues and many M.A. students report abroad for the thesis. M.A. students may also select subject-area courses focused on international subjects. Please note: The classes listed here represent recent offerings at the Journalism School. Choices vary each semester depending on faculty availability and other considerations. Classes described now may change or be dropped to make room for new additions. China Seminar Professor: Howard W. French China Seminar Howard W. French In the years and decades ahead, China will powerfully shape the world both in ways that are already becoming evident and in others as yet still unexpected. If you are interested in global reporting, wherever you come from and whatever region of the world you wish to report on, having a nuanced grasp of a fast-changing and dynamic China will be indispensable to writing smartly about international affairs. This course aims to deepen students' understanding of China and sharpen the ways we think and write about the country as journalists. The seminar-style class involves wide and eclectic readings about China, which may include works of reportage, political science, history, sociology, business and economics and culture. Guest speakers will also be drawn from a range of areas of expertise and background. The course requires that students read current coverage of China from a variety of leading Western and (in translation) Chinese media. A portion of each class will be set aside for a running comparative examination of this coverage. Written assignments will consist of off-the-news, deeply and collaboratively reported articles by students on current events, with a rich variety of voices drawn from both China and abroad. Students should expect to receive regular, careful editing of their work, along with feedback on writing and reporting. Students who have little or no past exposure to China are welcome, as are students with prior experience in China and of course Chinese students, as well. Whatever your background there will be plenty to stimulate and engage you. Covering Religion Professor: Ari Goldman Gregory Khalil Covering Religion Ari Goldman Gregory Khalil Covering Religion aims at preparing students to write about religion with depth, sensitivity and sophistication. This year, the seminar will focus on the diversity of religious faiths found in the American South. Thanks to a generous grant from the Scripps Howard Foundation, the course will include a weeklong study-tour of the region at no cost to students. The study-tour will take place over spring break.In addition to reporting and writing assignments, each student will make an oral presentation in class about the coverage of his or her faith beat. While still in New York, students will select and begin to report on the stories that they want to cover while traveling. Upon their return, students will write and produce the stories that they worked on while traveling. This course is open by application only to all MS students, both part-time and full-time. Follow the Covering Religion blog to learn about the places where we've traveled. Gender and Migration Gender and Migration The symbol of the country’s immigration story stands in New York Harbor, surrounded by modern-day examples of resilience. The Southern Border may be the epicenter of a migration crisis reverberating throughout the world, but New York is the place to report on its effects. In this course, students will examine national and international issues through the prism of local reporting. Women and children have been the most vulnerable under the Trump administration’s crackdown on immigration, from the newest restrictions on asylum laws to family separation, to the drastic reduction of refugees in the coming year. We will examine the push and pull factors for migration, not only from Central America, but from Africa, the Middle East and Asia, which have led to a record number of 26 million refugees today. In New York, advocacy groups and lawyers are uniting to help undocumented youth and women at risk, and local religious communities are assisting the resettlement of refugee families. Guest speakers from these groups — as well as city officials — will speak to the students and help them form a network of sources. At the beginning, students will choose a specific local beat and track developments weekly. The weekly lectures will focus on these topics, so that all students can build on their areas of expertise. During the semester, students will publish at least one story in cooperation with Documented, a leading immigration website publishing New York-focused news. By tackling local angles of national issues, reporters can break news that can ultimately lead to policy change in Washington: a rarity in these times. Journalism is ultimately about people. For immigration reporters, finding and telling those compelling stories, however, can be complicated by politics, language and fear. Students will learn how to report with sensitivity and nuance, and yet not be swayed by sentiment. That means knowing the laws and history of immigration policy from the Chinese Exclusion Act to Migration Protection Protocols, and also adhering to ethical guidelines amid a polarized climate for media. How to Cover Armies and Spies Professor: Steve Coll How to Cover Armies and Spies Steve Coll Armies and intelligence services are among the most powerful and secretive of institutions, in democracies and authoritarian states alike. They are monopolists of the legitimate use of force, arbiters of war and peace and outsized consumers of national budgets. Covering militaries and spies well and revealingly is hard work that requires preparation and commitment. But it is vital journalism with a public purpose. And occasionally it is journalism that changes the world, from Sy Hersh’s My Lai massacre reporting to Abu Ghraib to Edward Snowden. This course will prepare students to cover militaries and intelligence services, whether in the United States or abroad. We will take a broad approach, understanding security issues to include human rights, migration and the environment. We will review diverse sourcing strategies, durable story genres and professional and ethical conundrums on the beat. The intention is to equip students to take on defense, intelligence and related human rights reporting as a subject area for daily reporting, longform investigation or as a recurring part of a diversified career, with the understanding that the best sourcing in this field can require years to develop. Each student will complete a significant piece of narrative reporting accessible from the United States. We will also undertake a class project about the war in Syria, incorporating data journalism methods and investigative reporting on public records, satellite imagery, user-generated content and confidential source development. The project should provide a strong, accessible body of collaborative work for each enrolled student to highlight in a portfolio. The class will satisfy workshop requirements for both investigative and data concentrators in the M.S. program. International Newsroom International Newsroom The course begins with an examination of what is news and how the definition of news and the ways in which it is reported can change as you cross geographical and cultural borders. Class discussions and assignments cover global press freedom challenges, trends in international journalism and often reflect emerging news. Guests may include veteran foreign correspondents, practitioners of “the new global journalism,” such as citizen reporting projects or bloggers from countries where mainstream media face severe restrictions. Each student pitches, reports and writes several stories on international topics and, in most years, works on a class-wide reporting project. Projects have included studies of state-funded global TV channels, of western media reporting on chemical weapons use in Syria and of digital technology’s impact on international reporting. For project examples done in past years by International Newsroom, see Global Media Wars, The New Global Journalism and Global Newsroom. International Newsroom: Human Rights Reporting International Newsroom: Human Rights Reporting Journalists covering international and national social justice issues regularly encounter claims of human rights violations. The decades old human rights movement evolved from the scorched earth of the World Wars, when millions of refugees and survivors of genocide demanded justice. Current world crises from the Syrian Civil War to climate change to the persistent attacks on the rights of women have led to more demands for human rights. Nations seldom sanction themselves for violating the rights of citizens and refugees, and the international bodies formed to address human rights violations are often accurately described as toothless. In this course, we will look at human rights from a journalist’s perspective, and we will cover the efforts of the United Nations, NGOs, activists and human rights organizations to ensure human rights for all individuals. We will look at the history and evolution of today’s international human rights institutions, and their policies and shortcomings. And we will look at journalism’s role in human rights. Many examples exist showing that without reporting, human rights violations proceed without international condemnation. How are these issues best covered? What are best practices and ethical considerations? What tools and sources are most useful in reporting often complicated entanglements of human rights? What are our obligations to the most vulnerable? How can we represent victims of human rights violations ethically and with respect? International Reporting Professor: Howard W. French International Reporting Howard W. French In this class students will select international topics that are freshly or very recently 'breaking' and take them beyond the first day headlines. This involves resourcefulness and enterprise in their reporting as well as teaches them the vital skill in the web age of how to write the proverbial second-day story (and beyond). This goes beyond fresh reporting and analysis and helps students achieve the right kind of voice and perspective for follow up news and feature writing. Reporting in Conflict Zones Professor: Azmat Khan Reporting in Conflict Zones Azmat Khan What’s the true human toll of conflict? With few independent observers in areas of conflict, journalists play an essential role in conveying the costs of war, its impact on local communities, and holding conflict actors to account. The reporters who undertake this work confront challenges that go beyond navigating violence and chaos on the ground. The best among them also make sense of complex historical and political contexts; they pick up new languages and dialects; they ethically interview vulnerable populations; they resist sensationalist narratives and misinformation; they clear incessant logistical and bureaucratic hurdles; and they learn how to adapt when, inevitably, things don’t go as planned. In this course, students will gain a sound framework for reporting in conflict zones in the contemporary media landscape. Over 14 classes, we’ll read, watch and deconstruct some of the best pieces of conflict reporting over the last decade, often going behind the scenes with the reporters themselves. Key themes include: Preparing For Conflict Reporting Safety & Security Developing Contacts Learning Local & Historical Context Identifying Misinformation Collecting Data On The Ground Ethical Minefields Sensitive Interviewing Going Beyond Conflict The Economics Of Foreign Reporting Dealing With The Unexpected Using Data to Investigate Across Borders Professor: Giannina Segnini Using Data to Investigate Across Borders Giannina Segnini Exponential amounts of information about the world are being produced daily and journalists everywhere need to have a global mindset if they are to write about organized crime, corruption, human trafficking, global trade and threats to the environment. We live in an increasingly borderless world. Goods, money, people and ideas flow freely across borders thanks to technology and the liberalization of customs and money controls. We all benefit from globalization and the free flow of commerce that it makes possible. But there’s a dark side: A borderless world also makes it easier for crooks and criminals to do their work. Around the world, journalists are developing techniques to cope with the globalization of crime, corruption and environmental damage. They are adopting strategies that include the smart use of data and collaboration across borders. The volume and velocity with which information and data are being produced and the variety of open sources currently available make it possible to develop reporting strategies that are truly global. This course will prepare students to find global data, process and analyze it; and to report on it from New York while working with sources and possibly other journalists overseas. Students will learn skills like doing background checks on people and companies, mining the social web, tracking offshore entities and finding assets and cargo. They will be divided into reporting teams and will be able to find, scrape, consolidate, analyze and visualize data in the context of a big global story by the end of the semester. See all classes Student Work Students in the Human Rights Reporting class taught by Prof. Lonnie Isabel learn the basic tenets of human rights law and international enforcement bodies. Global Citizens Press, their website, features stories on child brides, gender violence, workplace equality and a wide range of other global human rights issues. Since the Covering Religion class began in 2001, classes have gone to Russia, India, Jordan and Palestine, Italy, Israel, and Ireland and Northern Ireland. The trips build on reporting students have done in New York. Multimedia work done by the class of 2017 appears at Sangam: Reporting on the religions of India. The Covering Religion class of 2018 traveled to Israel, and its reporting can be found at Godland. In Australia, the government financed YouTube videos actively warning migrants in Indonesia to stay away from Australia. “Don’t waste your money or risk your life,” warns a stern-faced military general in one message. Kevin Sun, '17 M.S., analyzed Australia’s hard-nosed, multimedia effort in a story for Quartz. On primary election day September 2018, students in the Reporting section taught by Profs. Ann Cooper and Samir Patel spoke with immigrant voters across New York City. Their street reporting was published by Documented, a site devoted to immigration issues in New York founded by CJS '16 alums. See more student work Faculty Steve Coll Dean of Columbia Journalism School; Henry R. Luce Professor of Journalism Sheila Coronel Toni Stabile Professor of Professional Practice in Investigative Journalism; Director, Toni Stabile Center for Investigative Journalism Howard W. French Professor of Journalism Ari Goldman Professor of Journalism Giannina Segnini John S. and James L. Knight Professor of Professional Practice in Data Journalism Alexander Stille San Paolo Professor of International Journalism Kim Barker Adjunct Faculty Maria Fisher Adjunct Faculty Judith Matloff Adjunct Faculty Deborah Sontag Adjunct associate professor Sarah Stillman Adjunct Faculty; Project Editor, Global Migration Project See all faculty TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.