Attend an Information Session | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Admissions Where to Begin Meet With the J-School Meet With the J-School Attend an info session. Visit with alumni. Talk to J-School staff. Jump to: Information Sessions J-School in Your Area Stay Connected Admissions Events Information Sessions Fall 2021 Virtual Admissions Events This fall, we invite you to take part in an array of interactive virtual events about Columbia's degree programs. Please click here to learn more and to register for upcoming events. Friday Sessions Informal information meetings are held on Fridays from 3 to 4 p.m. Meetings are conducted by one of our admissions officers via Zoom and cover an overview of the school, programs and admission. RSVP for these sessions is required. Only those who RSVP will be provided with the zoom link for the meeting. Saturday Sessions Come and learn more about our degree programs and a career in journalism. Hear from faculty, current students and staff from admissions and financial aid and career services. Sessions are scheduled from 12:00 p.m. - 1:00 p.m. ET on Zoom. See the following dates to register. October 2 November 6 December 4 Sessions will be recorded and available for later viewing on the YouTube page under the Admissions section. To see English and Spanish Brochures please select from the options below: English Spanish Meet With an Admissions Officer As a result of complications related to COVID-19, we are staying vigilant and monitoring this challenging and unprecedented situation with our students’ safety and well-being at the forefront of everything we do. In lieu of in-person meetings, we are requesting that all prospective students please make appointments to discuss Columbia Journalism School with one of our admission personnel by emailing apply.journalism@columbia.edu or calling +1-212-854-8608. Directions to campus The Journalism School is located in Pulitzer Hall on Columbia University's Morningside Heights campus in Manhattan. Hotels near campus Columbia University deals on local hotels Teachers College Guest Housing Union Theological Seminary Hostel International New York J-School in Your Area Find the J-School on the Road Meet with a member of the admissions staff when at recruitment events around the country and internationally at graduate school fairs and professional association conventions. These sessions provide an opportunity to learn more about J-School programs and the admissions process. See events listings to find an event in your area. Alumni Meet and Greets You are invited to come and meet alumni in your area. Learn about J-School programs, admissions and a career in journalism in a casual setting. Prospective students can sign up and stay connected to receive invitations. Stay Connected Meet the Team In Person Pulitzer Hall, 2950 Broadway (at 116th Street), Room 203 (lobby) Email apply.journalism@columbia.edu Skype Columbia.Journalism.Admissions Phone 212-854-8608 Fax 212-854-2352 Postal Address Office of Admission and Financial Aid 2950 Broadway, Room 203 New York, NY 10027 TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.