International Programs | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Dual Degrees International Programs International Programs Global journalism in the 21st century We offer two prestigious dual degree programs and other international affiliations. Jump to: Dual Degree: Paris University of Barcelona Journalism Program Dual Degree: Johannesburg Contact Dual Degree: Paris The Journalism School and the Graduate Journalism Program at Sciences Po in Paris offer a dual degree program that allows students to study in two hubs of journalism and receive degrees from both institutions. The partnership reflects the global nature of journalism in the 21st century and offers students top‐tier training from both an American and a European perspective. It encourages mastery of journalistic techniques, bilingual training and the opportunity to develop a career with a unique international background. The Sciences Po School of Journalism is an integral part of France’s top‐tier university system. It offers a two‐year master’s program combining practical journalism training with advanced academic instruction in the social sciences. Columbia students are invited during the academic year to apply for a second degree, to be conferred by Sciences Po after two semesters of study and work in Paris. Students at Sciences Po should apply to Columbia during their first year. Each school controls its own admission process, though a representative from the partner institution attends the final selection process. Students pay regular tuition rates at each institution. Columbia Journalism School students at Sciences Po will study subjects such as international affairs, French and European history, economics, social dynamics and a wide range of journalism courses. They will also be placed in internships with Paris‐based news and media organizations while enrolled at Sciences Po. Sciences Po’s journalism school will oversee the placement of these internships. Students from Sciences Po who are admitted to Columbia will enroll in our M.S. program, the cornerstone program offered by the Journalism School. This is the first dual degree program between a French and an American journalism school. University of Barcelona Journalism Program × The Journalism School shares the management of the Universitat de Barcelona BCNY Journalism program in Spain and contributes faculty members who offer specialized short courses in Barcelona. Students enrolled in this program undertake a rigorous, one‐year curriculum, which in many ways resembles that of the Journalism School. The program is dedicated to producing journalists who demonstrate the same professional standards and sense of responsibility as their Columbia colleagues. The curriculum is taught in Spanish. Applicants who are fluent in Spanish and are unable to attend Columbia will regard this program as an interesting alternative. BCNY Journalism is strongly supported by Spanish news organizations, many of which provide internship opportunities for the students. Typically, the student body is highly diverse, with representatives from several European countries, Latin America, Africa and the U.S. For more information, contact program director, Frederic Vincent. Dual Degree: Johannesburg Witwatersrand University remains a partner of Columbia Journalism School. However, there are no programs in progress at this time. Please check back again in 2021. The Journalism School and the University of Witwatersrand in South Africa offer a dual degree program that allows students to study journalism in both New York City and Johannesburg and receive degrees from both institutions. The partnership reflects the global nature of journalism in the 21st century, offering students top‐tier training from both an American and an international perspective, and encourages mastery of journalistic techniques and the opportunity to develop a career with a unique international background. The University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg is one of the leading universities in South Africa. It consists of five faculties, which comprise 34 schools. Wits Journalism is a graduate program offering B.A. Hons and M.A. degrees. Students who participate in this program will be selected by a joint committee with representatives from each school that will choose a maximum of five students per year from each institution for the exchange program. After receiving an M.S. degree from the Journalism School, Columbia students may choose to attend the University of Witwatersrand to take courses towards a second degree or towards a graduate certificate program. While in Johannesburg, the university will place visiting students in internship programs with various news organizations in South Africa. Contact For more information on our international programs, contact Elena Cabral. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.