Data Journalism | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Areas of Study Data Data Tell stories with data. Journalism in the 21st century involves finding, collecting, analyzing and visualizing data for stories. The Journalism School offers foundational courses in data-driven journalism to students in its M.S. programs as well as a three-semester M.S. in Data Journalism. Jump to: Overview Classes Student Work Faculty Overview We are in the midst of a data explosion. It’s estimated that 2.5 quintillion bytes of data are created every day. Successful reporters must be equipped to make sense of data, critically assess its origins and limitations and use it to deliver accurate and compelling stories to a variety of audiences. The Journalism School’s data offerings continue to increase and advance, allowing students to take a variety of data and computation courses along with more traditional journalism classes. Foundational courses allow those with no data experience to hone their skills in data acquisition, extraction and analysis. More advanced courses include data visualization, journalistic computing and data‐driven journalism on specific topics, such as science, U.S. politics and cross‐border reporting. In addition, the journalism school offers an M.S. in Data Journalism for students who want deeper and more advanced training in data and computational skills. The school also has a dual degree program in Journalism and Computer Science in which students learn the fundamentals of reporting and writing while developing a working background in computer science and software design. And The Lede certification program equips students with the computational skills to turn data into narrative. Whatever their degree choice, students have many opportunities to incorporate data and data analysis into their reporting. M.A. students study statistics in Evidence & Inference and learn about data reporting in M.A. Essentials. The result is a strong grounding for all students to use data to advance their journalistic work. Explore degree programs. APPLY Classes In the fall, a foundational, seven-week Data I class teaches the basics of using spreadsheets and databases for reporting to students enrolled in the 10-month M.S. degree. For more advanced M.S. students, a Data II class explores various tools for accessing, manipulating and publishing data. The following are introductory classes for students in the 10-month M.S. program: DATA I This course teaches students how to evaluate and analyze data for appropriateness, context and meaning. Students leave the class knowing how to apply basic statistical methods to numerical data sets. They will also learn how to obtain, clean and load various types of commonly encountered data. They will be drilled on devising interesting, thoughtful and answerable questions to ask of data sets. They will also be taught how to translate the results of their data analysis into clear and concise findings. Visualization in this course will be used primarily for data analysis and story formation, not publication. Professors: Benjamin Lesser, Robert Gebeloff DATA II This course is designed to give students who have taken and passed (and hopefully enjoyed) an introductory course on Statistics a more advanced treatment of the process of storytelling with data. This includes: Frameworks and tools for finding, accessing, manipulating and publishing data (APIs, various databases, and some techniques for data "cleaning"); simulation-based approaches to statistical inference when data have special designs (surveys, A/B testing); "models" for data and the stories they tell (regression, trees); and advanced tools for visualization (to explore both data, the effects of data processing, and models). Throughout we will emphasize best practices for documenting your code and analysis ("showing your work"). Professor: Mark Hansen In the spring, M.S. students can choose from a selection of 15-week data journalism and computation workshops. In addition, several of the spring classes incorporate a data component in their coursework. The following are introductory data classes for students enrolled in the 10-month M.S. degree. Students in the data degree take a separate menu of classes throughout the three semesters they are enrolled in the School (see here for more information). Students in the dual degree program with Computer Science have a mandatory fall class, The Frontiers of Computational Journalism, a hands-on introduction to the areas of computer science that have a direct relevance to journalism. The following are 15-week data classes offered in the spring semester and open to all master's students: Please note: The classes listed here represent recent offerings at the Journalism School. Choices vary each semester depending on faculty availability and other considerations. Classes described now may change or be dropped to make room for new additions. Computational Journalism Professor: Mark Hansen Computational Journalism Mark Hansen This course unpacks the ways in which data, code and algorithms are reshaping systems of power in the world, training students to be better reporters and to hold the people and institutions behind these systems accountable. This critical view is made possible through rigorous training in data and computing, preparing students to use these tools in an expanded reporting practice that finds and tells new kinds of stories. Our main programming language for the class willl be Python. Each week, students will read and analyze examples of data and computing in service of journalism; and each week we will dig deeper into the technical skills behind such stories with small coding assignments that mix story and technology. The course will end with a final project, an "act of journalism," that might be a story, a data visualization or a new data set or algorithm. The course is not simply introducing a new web framework for pulling data from a PDF, or a even a new programming language. Instead, we aspire to a rich kind of literacy around data and computing. By “literacy” we mean a trio of concepts – a functional literacy that prepares students to be creative with data and computing; a critical literacy that encourages students to think about data and computing as cultural artifacts; and a rhetorical literacy that highlights the persuasive power inherent in any technology and that casts system design as a social, rather than a purely technical, act. The course will add a uniquely journalistic voice, one that responds to the needs and talents of reporters and helps them find and tell stories in new ways. Our goals in teaching this course are simple: 1) provide journalists with hands-on experience collecting, processing and analyzing data, 2) demystify the tools and methods behind computing, 3) supply sufficient background so that students might become creators of new technologies, transitioning from tool users to tool makers, and, perhaps most importantly, 4) teach students how to use data and computing, as both sources for finding stories, as well as platforms for telling new kinds of stories. As mentioned above, our main programming language will be Python, however, we assume NO PRIOR CODING OR DATA KNOWLEDGE. All we ask is that you bring the same journalistic curiosity you have learned in the first half of the program to these new ways of storytelling. We'll take care of the rest. Covering Education & Data Reporting Professor: LynNell Hancock Covering Education & Data Reporting LynNell Hancock The course combines diving into the rich landscape of education reporting and writing with in-depth data training in tandem with Brown Institute instructors. Each student will embed for the semester inside a New York City public middle, elementary or high school, cultivating sources, ideas, and knowledge. Seminar time will be devoted to history, ethics, ideas and debate with experts and working reporters in this expansive beat that can encompass policy, culture, inequity, youth justice and the science of learning, for starters. Students will write news, narrative features, an original long form story, as well as complete an ambitious data-focused group project on a topic to be decided. Data instructors will work directly with the class in the last half of the semester. NO PRIOR DATA KNOWLEDGE NECESSARY. The aim is to publish on our class websites as well as with our partner news organizations: NYC Chalkbeat, the New York Daily News,and others. Students in the course may qualify for a paid internship for the Hechinger Report. More Than Police & Thieves: Covering Criminal Justice in the U.S. More Than Police & Thieves: Covering Criminal Justice in the U.S. Despite the frequency with which it is bandied about on social media and in our news, the phrase “criminal justice system” is a misnomer. In truth, we as Americans deal with crime and its consequences through a patchwork of thousands of individual justice systems. They are archaic and opaque, difficult to navigate or even understand for direct, much less the journalists trying to cover them. By their very nature the police, courts and prisons are steeped in arcane procedures and language and locked behind closed doors. These systems resist inspection with great vigor. And yet criminal justice — investigating crimes on behalf of victims, identifying culprits and holding them to account — is one of the very core responsibilities of any government. Its success at this task, or failure, has enormous consequences for our communities and influence on our economy. The lives of roughly 2.4 million people are managed by various arms of the justice system at any moment; they’re on probation, in our local jails or in state or federal prisons. This class will systematically walk the students through each stage of criminal justice. Together, we will develop a holistic framework for reporting on the system as it functions and for identifying the gaps where it fails. We will explore and analyze the available data on crime, policing, courts and incarceration, and we will pursue reporting projects to start to fill some of the many holes in official data. We will look to other parts of the globe for stories that can serve as a comparison to how things operate here in the U.S. This course aims to inspire you to go beyond the cursory coverage that crime generally receives. Over the next 15 weeks, you will sharpen your ability to obtain and critically assess public information and data from the arms of the criminal justice system. With these tools, you’ll create unique and accurate stories on critical topics of public safety and the due process of law enshrined in the U.S. Constitution. Multimedia Storytelling: Data, Design and Animation Multimedia Storytelling: Data, Design and Animation This intensive production course covers the fundamentals of using data, design and animation to tell deeply-reported, compelling stories. Students will learn how to use industry-standard multimedia production tools, as well as advanced animation storytelling techniques. Students will be taught how to source data, storyboard, design, produce, and animate journalistic stories. Several short- and long-form projects will guide students through the process of conceptualizing, visualizing and producing animated stories. Multimedia Storytelling: Data, Design and Animation combines data sourcing, motion design and video production exploring the powerful potential of digital visualization methods for journalism. Students will be taught how to research, report, source data, storyboard, design, produce, edit and animate in-depth journalistic video content to acquire advanced industry-standard storytelling techniques. Using Data to Investigate Across Borders Professor: Giannina Segnini Using Data to Investigate Across Borders Giannina Segnini Exponential amounts of information about the world are being produced daily and journalists everywhere need to have a global mindset if they are to write about organized crime, corruption, human trafficking, global trade and threats to the environment. We live in an increasingly borderless world. Goods, money, people and ideas flow freely across borders thanks to technology and the liberalization of customs and money controls. We all benefit from globalization and the free flow of commerce that it makes possible. But there’s a dark side: A borderless world also makes it easier for crooks and criminals to do their work. Around the world, journalists are developing techniques to cope with the globalization of crime, corruption and environmental damage. They are adopting strategies that include the smart use of data and collaboration across borders. The volume and velocity with which information and data are being produced and the variety of open sources currently available make it possible to develop reporting strategies that are truly global. This course will prepare students to find global data, process and analyze it; and to report on it from New York while working with sources and possibly other journalists overseas. Students will learn skills like doing background checks on people and companies, mining the social web, tracking offshore entities and finding assets and cargo. They will be divided into reporting teams and will be able to find, scrape, consolidate, analyze and visualize data in the context of a big global story by the end of the semester. See all classes Student Work Columbia fellows and Toronto Star reporters reviewed thousands of pages of bankruptcy and other documents in three countries and interviewed dozens of people in Canada, the U.S., the U.K. and Israel to uncover "How every investor lost money on Trump Tower Toronto (but Donald Trump made millions anyway)." A six-month investigation by students in Prof. Giannina Segnini's cross-border investigations with data class resulted in a collaboration with Univision that showed how the cruise industry is one of the least regulated in the U.S., and how it shielded itself under the laws of tax havens from which it operates. Data and investigative students Manuela Andreoni and Inti Pacheco, '17 M.S., worked alongside Adam Davidson, a staff writer for The New Yorker, on his investigation into alleged corruption involving Trump's deals in places like Georgia and Azerbaijan. Four postgraduate fellows from the Class of 2017, contributed to the reporting by Propublica, WNYC and The New Yorker that revealed how Ivanka and Donald Trump Jr. were nearly charged with felony fraud for misleading prospective buyers of units in Trump Soho, the family's 46-story condominium in Manhattan. See more student work Faculty Mark Hansen David and Helen Gurley Brown Professor of Journalism and Innovation; Director, David and Helen Gurley Brown Institute of Media Innovation Dhrumil Mehta Associate Professor in Data Journalism; Deputy Director of the Tow Center for Digital Journalism Giannina Segnini John S. and James L. Knight Professor of Professional Practice in Data Journalism Andrea Fuller Adjunct Faculty Robert Gebeloff Adjunct Faculty Tom Meagher Adjunct Faculty Matt Rocheleau Adjunct Faculty Jonathan Soma Adjunct Faculty; Director, The LEDE Program Jonathan Stray Adjunct Faculty See all faculty TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.