Career Development | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Careers Career Development Employers Post Job Listings Attend Career Expo Current Students Access Career Info Alumni Exclusive Resources Career Development Start your career planning here. A team of experienced journalists guiding students to be competitive in the job market. Offering one‐on‐one advising, a full calendar of career workshops and events, an annual Career Expo, extensive resources and more. Jump to: Our Commitment Career Development Career Expo Columbia-Exclusive Opportunities For Employers For Alumni Meet the Team Contact Us Career Events Our Commitment The Office of Career Development trains, supports and advocates for every student regardless of race, gender, ethnicity, geography, religion, disability, academic and extracurricular interest, family circumstance, sexual orientation, gender-identity or socio-economic background. We believe that every Columbia student is unique and uniquely talented, and we are committed to helping each student launch and achieve their individual goals. Our personalized career guidance covers all facets of the job hunt, from writing resumes and cover letters, to developing interview skills, finding mentors and negotiating equitable salaries, to understanding news media companies and what they’re looking for in job and internship candidates. We encourage all efforts to end discrimination of any kind in hiring practices, promotions, beat assignments and other areas of newsroom management in the media. We promise to uphold principles of anti-racism, inclusion and equal treatment in our offices and to communicate these values to employers. #CJSInclusion Career Development Editors, producers and hiring managers consistently seek out J-School students and graduates to find the reporting and cutting-edge skills they need in their newsrooms. Advisors meet one-on-one and guide students through every stage of the job-hunting process so they can find jobs and internships that make the best use of their skills and interests. Students learn valuable career-building strategies including: How to write journalism-specific resumes and cover letters that best highlight skills and prior experience An understanding of the profile, structure and kinds of positions available in multimedia newsrooms Ways to showcase selected work through social media and online portfolios Strategies to mine job opportunities, develop contacts and network How to prepare for and succeed in a job interview Negotiating offers How to pitch freelance work to editors See where the class of 2021 landed Career Expo The annual spring Career Expo is open exclusively to graduating students at Columbia Journalism School. The Career Expo showcases the wide range of news organizations operating today, from legacy media to digital startups and international, national, regional and hyperlocal outlets, general news, single issue/topic-focused and investigative websites producing content in a variety of media, including text, video, photo, audio and data visualizations. The Career Expo takes place every spring and is limited to the graduating students of Columbia Journalism School. Following each year’s Expo, our advisors guide students as they build on their new contacts, manage follow‐up interviews, weigh offers and negotiate terms. The Expo is a once‐in‐a‐lifetime networking opportunity where professional relationships start and continue for years to come. Employers: Join our Expo Mailing List. Columbia-Exclusive Opportunities Every year J-School students have the opportunity to compete for a range of exclusive paid post‐graduate fellowships. These include reporting and editing fellowships based at the Journalism School and a number of shorter‐term fellowships at some of the most prestigious news organizations in the U.S. and overseas. Currently, Columbia sponsors several fellowships at Columbia Journalism Review and Columbia Journalism Investigations. Within the industry, students can apply for exclusive internships at ABC News, BBC, FRONTLINE and other companies. Opportunities evolve every year. See Columbia Exclusive Fellowships & Internships For Employers The Office of Career Development works throughout the year to connect employers with our students and alumni for paid internships, freelance opportunities and jobs. We offer several resources for employers including: Free accounts on JobNews: our password‐protected job listing database MEET THE MEDIA: brown bag sessions with students Interview days on campus and virtually Promoting jobs and internships to students and alumni Career Expo: the largest journalism job fair in the country Employers who would like to connect with the Office of Career Development or meet J-School students are encouraged to email Lauren Mack, Program Manager, Career Development, or call her at 212-854‐4422. We hope you will join us for our annual Career Expo. If you are an employer and would like more information, please contact us or join our mailing list. For Alumni Columbia students benefit from a vast and loyal alumni network like no other in journalism. J-school alumni occupy many top jobs in newsrooms and frequently “pay it forward” by reaching out to their alma mater to fill positions. More recent alumni are also generous in offering guidance and connections. Throughout your time at Columbia, you’ll develop career-building skills and networks that will help you for years to come. Alumni have access to a variety of career resources, which are listed here. The J-school's Office of Alumni Relations offers access to an alumni directory, events, and more. Additional benefits and resources are offered by the Columbia Alumni Association. If you are a hiring editor or producer and want to interview students of the Journalism School for jobs and paid internships, we welcome you to contact Career Development or see Information for Employers. Meet the Team × Julie Hartenstein joined the Career Development team after teaching broadcast journalism and video storytelling at the Journalism School for several years. Prior to coming to Columbia she spent 18 years at ABC News in a variety of positions, including field producer and story development editor at Nightline, World News, 20/20 and Good Morning America. She specializes in working with students focusing on broadcast journalism, video and digital production. Julie Hartenstein Associate Dean jh548@columbia.edu × Gina Boubion was a newspaper reporter and editor at the St. Paul Pioneer Press, Philadelphia Daily News and San Jose Mercury News, and has written stories, essays and fiction for Latina, Brides, The Antioch Review, 580 Split and others. She advises students on writing and reporting across platforms, including magazines, newspapers and online publications. B.A. Pomona College, M.S.J. Northwestern University, M.F.A. Bennington College. Member, National Association of Hispanic Journalists. Gina Boubion Director gb2219@columbia.edu × Lauren Mack '06 has been a freelance journalist for nearly two decades, Lauren writes about travel and food. She has lived and worked in Beijing, Taipei and New York and her work has appeared in dozens of outlets, including Seeker, The Daily Meal, Trip Savvy, Time Out, ThoughtCo, About.com, Newsweek International, and Zagat. She has contributed to more than a dozen travel guidebooks and apps, and she has traveled to 48 countries on five continents. She coordinates the annual Career Expo, oversees the office’s programming and events, serves as a liaison for students and employers and maintains job and internship databases. Lauren Mack Program Manager lem2111@columbia.edu × Jake joined the Career Development team in Dec. 2021. As Program Coordinator, he assists with a variety of tasks related to event planning, maintaining job databases, fellowship and internship program management, liaising with students and employers, and coordinating the annual Career Expo. Before joining Columbia, Jake was a Career Services Aide in NYU’s Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute for nearly two years, having graduated from Pace University with a B.A. in English Language and Literature. Jacob Holzman Program Coordinator jh4528@columbia.edu Contact Us Office of Career Development, Columbia Journalism School Email: cujcareers@columbia.edu Phone: 212-854-4422 Need help with JobNews, recruiting or registering for the Career Expo? Contact Lauren Mack, Program Manager: lem2111@columbia.edu. Employers: Join our Career Expo Mailing List. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.