Alumni Weekend | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Alumni Weekend 2022 Alumni Weekend 2022 Thank you to everyone who helped make Alumni Weekend such a memorable event! Jump to: Alumni Weekend 2022 Panels- April 29, 2022 - April 30, 2022 2022 Alumni Award Winners Alumni Weekend 2021: Virtual Alumni Awards Ceremony - May 13, 2021, 5 p.m. EDT Zoom Socials - May 13, 2021, 5:30 p.m. EDT Global Journalism Day - May 14, 2021 Alumni Weekend 2022 Friday, April 29: the morning panels are virtual only. You also have the option to attend the Saturday panels virtually, if you are unable to attend in person. No walk-ins will be allowed this year due to pandemic restrictions. Friday, April 29, 2022 8:00 AM - 9:00 AM ET Pandemic Pivots: How News Got Done - Virtual only 9:30 AM -10:30 AM ET Taking Your J-School Skills To Other Careers - Virtual only 4:00 PM ET Registration 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM ET Hearst Lecture: The featured speaker is Kevin Merida, executive editor of LA Times 7:00 PM - 8:00 PM ET Hearst Reception Saturday, April 30, 2022 8:00 AM ET Registration/ Breakfast- grab and go 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM ET Press Freedom and Democracy 11:45 AM - 12:30 PM ET Alumni Awards Ceremony 12:30 PM ET Lunch- grab and go 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM ET Freelancing and the Gig Economy 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM ET Covering Climate Change 5:00 PM - 6:30 PM ET 25th/50th Receptions (1997, 1972 and 1970) Panels- April 29, 2022 - April 30, 2022 Pandemic Pivots: How News Got Done (Virtual): Friday, April 29, 8:00 A.M. - 9:00 A.M. EDT The pandemic led to an unprecedented situation where people were forced to work offsite, under circumstances that required a lot of modification and juggling, including dealing with mental health issues. What have been the greatest challenges of reporting during the pandemic? How did managers and reporters pivot? Moderator: Ruth Michaelson '14 (@msrmichaelson), a journalist covering the Middle East whose written for The Guardian and other publications. Panelists: Alan Goldstein ‘85 (@alanmgoldstein), senior editor in New York for Bloomberg Today, the global mobile news service for the Bloomberg Professional app, Barkha Dutt ‘98 (@BDUTT), the Founder and Editor of MojoStory, an independent digital media platform that reports on current affairs, and We The Women, a community festival for women to engage in conversations with and seek mentorship from one another, Heather Khalifa ‘18 (@khalifaheather), an Emmy-award winning photojournalist at the Philadelphia Inquirer, and Larry Madowo ‘20 (@LarryMadowo), a correspondent for CNN International in Africa who has reported several stories on vaccine inequality during the COVID-19 pandemic. Taking Your J-School Skills To Other Careers (Virtual): Friday, April 29, 9:30 A.M.- 10:30 A.M. EDT The skills we learned at the J-School - critical thinking, listening, communicating effectively, assessing facts, the ability to tell a pointed story - can be used outside newsrooms and in other careers. Moderator: Fred Katayama '83 Panelists: Michael McAdoo ‘89, a Partner and Director for Global Trade and Investment at the Boston Consulting Group, Fred Katayama ‘83 (@freddiethekat), the Executive Vice President of the US-Japan Council, an organization that seeks to bolster the relationship between the two nations, Francine Parham ‘17 (@francineparham), the Founder and CEO of FrancineParham & Co., a professional development company that offers coaching and advice for career advancement, Alice Rhee ‘96, the Chief Global Partnerships and Communications Officer at the Skoll Foundation, an organization that invests in the work of social entrepreneurs in order to push for transformative social change, and Geoffrey Melada '14 (@GeoffreyMelada), director of communications for the Treatment Advocacy Center, a national mental health nonprofit headquartered in Arlington, VA. Press Freedom and Democracy (Hybrid): Saturday, April 30, 10:00 A.M. - 11:30 A.M. EDT With systemic threats to global press freedom, the very underpinning of democracy is being evaluated. There is a barrage of attacks on the very principles of democracy and the role of a free press, on uninhibited reporting, on reporters and a battle between the concept of fake news versus real news. Join this important discussion moderated by Dean Steve Coll. Moderator: Steve Coll, the Dean of the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism. Panelists: Malini Parthasarathy ‘82 (@MaliniP), chairperson of the Hindu Group, the publication company that oversees the publication of multiple newspapers in India, Gina Chua ‘88 (@GinaSKChua), recently named executive editor of a new media start up heralded by former Bloomberg Media, Justin Smith, and former New York Times media columnist, Ben Smith, Kimberly Atkins Stohr ‘01 (@KimElleen), a senior opinion writer and columnist at The Boston Globe, and lead columnist for The Emancipator, and Joel Simon, a research fellow at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at the J-School. Freelancing and the Gig Economy (Hybrid): Saturday, April 30, 2:00 P.M. - 3:00 P.M. EDT A discussion on the changed landscape of journalism, freelancing and challenges of the gig economy. Moderator: Jane Eisner '78 (@Jane_Eisner), director of academic affairs at the Columbia Journalism School. Panelists: Sara Clemence ‘02 (@saraclemence), a freelance journalist whose work has appeared in The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Bloomberg Businessweek, Vogue, Esquire, Fast Company, and many other publications, Anup Kaphle ‘08 (@anupkaphle), the executive editor at Rest of World, Alexis Clark ‘02 (@msabclark), an author and freelance journalist, and Melanie Eversley '88 (@MelanieEversley), who was named executive editor of the upcoming news organization, Black News & Views, in March. Covering Climate Change (Hybrid): Saturday, April 30, 3:30 P.M. - 4:30 P.M. EDT Climate change is systemic and global so how are news media responding? Are there lessons to be learned from covering the COVID-19 pandemic? What are the main operational and ethical questions that journalism is facing now in trying to cover the climate crisis adequately? Moderator: Andrew Revkin '82 (@revkin), environmental journalist and founding director of a new Initiative on Communication and Sustainability at Columbia University's Earth Institute. Panelists: Sarah Graham '01, a Senior Editor for Climate, at The New York Times, Justine Calma '15 (@JustCalma), a science reporter covering energy and the environment at Vox Media's The Verge, and Tik Root ‘17 (@tikroot), writer for The Washington Post, where he covers climate and climate solutions. Hearst Lecture: Friday, April 29, 6:00 P.M. - 7:00 P.M. EDT Speaker: Kevin Merida, executive editor of the Los Angeles Times. 2022 Alumni Award Winners Please read our interviews with the 2022 Alumni Award Winners here, as well as the press release. Alumni Weekend 2021: Virtual Alumni Awards Ceremony - May 13, 2021, 5 p.m. EDT On May 13th, our Virtual Alumni Awards Ceremony starts at 5 p.m. EDT. The honorees are Michelle Johnson '82, Donna Ladd '01, Natasha Lebedeva '94, Robert Fieseler '13 and Alexandra Bell '13. Read about them here. Zoom Socials - May 13, 2021, 5:30 p.m. EDT Right after the Awards ceremony, there will be three grouped Zoom socials. Check your inbox for details for your class! Global Journalism Day - May 14, 2021 Our Global Day of Journalism as part of our Alumni Weekend will be held on Friday, May 14. We are excited for you to connect virtually with alumni in four locations across the globe. The local time for each of these is between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. You can join one or more meet-ups to connect with J-Schoolers! Find links to register for our New Delhi, London, San Francisco & Washington D.C. zoned meetings in your April 15th email. Questions? Reach us at… Email: as1698@columbia.edu | Call: (212) 854-3864 TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.