Audio Journalism | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Areas of Study Audio In The Peter Project, Stevie Hertz, '18 M.S., uncovers the mystery of the Japanese-American child that left an internment camp to live with her family during World War II. Audio Learn to tell compelling stories using sound and clear, conversational writing. A good audio story takes you on a journey through sound. Learn to tell compelling stories using sound and captivating writing through offerings in the M.S. degree programs. Jump to: Overview Classes Student Work Faculty Overview With the growing popularity of podcasts and the continued reach of terrestrial radio, there has never been a better time to pursue a career in audio. The Journalism School prepares students to work in any of the finest public radio newsrooms or on the most successful shows and podcasts. M.S. students go through a brief audio training in August as part of their introduction to multimedia reporting. Even in those early classes, students receive technical instruction, one-on-one editing and constructive in-class feedback on their work. In the fall, students interested in audio can take Writing for the Ear and/or an Image & Sound class in audio reporting. In the spring, Radio Workshop provides real-world training that ensures students interested in pursuing a career in radio have the skills to quickly make themselves valuable in any work environment. Radio Workshop has been a staple of the spring schedule for nearly two decades. Its network of graduates work in many of the best public and commercial radio and podcast companies in the United States and beyond. Students interested in audio who meet the prerequisites can submit proposals for audio Master’s Projects. A hybrid audio-print project includes an 8-10 minute audio piece and a 2,500-word story. A full audio project is a 2,030-minute documentary or a series of three 7-9 minute related segments with no written component. Regular guest speakers in audio classes include: Robert Smith (NPR), Stacey Vanek Smith (NPR), Alex Blumberg (Gimlet), Tim Howard (Gimlet), Luis Trelles (Radio Ambulante), Zoe Chace (This American Life), Ailsa Chang (NPR) and Joe Richman (Radio Diaries). Explore degree programs. APPLY Classes In addition to these classes, many instructors encourage students to incorporate audio elements into their reporting. Please note: The classes listed here represent recent offerings at the Journalism School. Choices vary each semester depending on faculty availability and other considerations. Classes described now may change or be dropped to make room for new additions. Audio I Professor: Kristin Schwab Audio I Kristin Schwab This course teaches fundamental and advanced techniques of field reporting and writing in audio or radio media. Emphasis is on writing clearly and conversationally, with integration of recorded voices and natural sound. Students will pitch, report, write and produce compelling, public radio style pieces, including newscasts, news stories, features and interviews. They will be trained in state-of-the-industry recording equipment and editing software. Students will receive detailed, one-on-one editing and will publish their work in on-demand digital audio formats. The writing and technical skills taught in this course are intended to serve students well in any medium. This class is a prerequisite for those interested in pitching a full audio master’s project. Multiple instructors teach sections of this class. Radio Workshop Professor: Sally Herships Radio Workshop Sally Herships Radio Workshop develops the skills to tell compelling, sound-driven news stories as well as the fundamentals of long-form audio storytelling. The class operates as a working newsroom to produce a live, hour-long weekly news-magazine program, Uptown Radio. As reporters, students produce four enterprise stories of increasing complexity, a personal commentary, two day-stories, two newscasts, and two host interviews. On the production side, students rotate through key leadership positions and technical positions to ensure a high-quality, timely broadcast. The leadership team makes all of editorial decisions with support from the instructors as needed. Learning to write well for audio forces you to write clearly and concisely. As such, this course develops your reporting and writing in ways that will be useful in whatever career path you choose. Shoe Leather: Multi-Casting Investigative Stories Professor: Joanne Faryon Rachel Quester Peter Leonard Shoe Leather: Multi-Casting Investigative Stories Joanne Faryon Rachel Quester Peter Leonard This class is for students who want to take their long-form journalism beyond print. In it, students will work in small teams to produce episodes for an original podcast — SHOE LEATHER — and create a corresponding web page with text, photos, primary source documents and short videos. Students will take a deep dive into a specific news event from New York City in the 1980’s, and explore how it was covered at the time, and its impact decades later. Using online resources and old fashioned shoe leather reporting, the goal of each podcast episode will be to find the main newsmakers of the past event and reveal how the news coverage influenced their lives. Students might pursue crime stories, missing persons cases, the rise and fall of political figures, catastrophic events that impacted a neighborhood, natural disasters that swept through a community, or an act of heroism that received wide acclaim. The stories will take the listener back in time using clear narrative writing and archival tape, and explain the significance of the news event and the role the newsmaker played. Three seminars will be co-taught by professors Faryon and Maharidge. They will focus on the cross-over between long-form print narratives and storytelling for journalism-driven podcasts. Students will learn how to plan their reporting to ensure a three-act structure, and animate stories beyond talking heads. They’ll learn to think in scenes, and how those scenes translate into print, audio and video. This class prepares students to produce long form audio for a digital newsroom such as the LA Times, or podcast creation company. It will also train students to think like a “platform neutral” journalist — in other words — open to telling stories in different ways for different audiences. Telling True Stories in Sound Professor: Daniel Alarcón Telling True Stories in Sound Daniel Alarcón The goal of this course is to teach the skills of long-form audio journalism, and the techniques of nonfiction storytelling used in established shows like This American Life, Radiolab or Invisibilia, as well as newer podcasts like Reply All, or 99% Invisible. The style of storytelling used in the public radio style podcasts is a combination of in-depth reporting and long-form storytelling. This course will prepare students to tell complex stories using strong character-driven narrative. The workshop will be run as a newsroom. We'll have pitch meetings, where each student will have workshop edits (modeled on This American Life) and welcome guests from significant team members at WNYC Studios, Gimlet Studios, This American Life, Radiolab, as well as NPR shows like Code Switch, Planet Money and Radio Ambulante. See all classes Student Work For 77 years, the elevated 3rd Avenue El train rattled the windows of tenement buildings. Almost nothing remains of it today, except for the memories of New Yorkers who were there to see it come down. Camila Kerwin, ’17 M.S., reports. Cassandra Basler, '15 M.S., follows two students from the Bronx as they decide if an intrauterine device (IUD) is right for them, a device that has become the frontline recommendation for teens nationwide. U.S. presidents have extraordinary powers, including granting clemency. President Obama commuted the federal sentences of 348 people. Shandukani Mulaudzi, ’16 M.S., brings us one of their stories for Life of the Law. Read the Global Citizen Press article. Sara Aridi, '15 M.S., looked at Middle Eastern musicians who address events in the region from abroad. Listen to her master's project. See more student work Faculty Daniel Alarcón Assistant Professor Journalism Joanne Faryon Associate Professor of Professional Practice David Blum Adjunct Faculty Sally Herships Adjunct Faculty; Director, Radio Program Ellen Horne Adjunct Faculty Peter Leonard Adjunct Faculty Rachel Quester Adjunct Faculty Kristin Schwab Adjunct Faculty Ben Shapiro Adjunct Faculty Naomi Starobin Adjunct Assistant Professor of Journalism Richard Yeh Adjunct Faculty See all faculty TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.