Diversity, Equity and Inclusion | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Admissions Student Life Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Learn about steps we are taking to address systemic racism. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion #CJSInclusion Below is a compilation of the Journalism School’s work to date. We invite members of the Journalism community of faculty, staff, students and alumni to help us achieve our goals by sharing their ideas and partnering with us. Please share your thoughts and ideas here. Jump to: Our Mission New Messages from the Journalism School Dean Coll’s Letter on Diversity Report Anti-Racism Readings Resources for Reporting on Anti-Asian Violence Covering Protests Paul Tobenkin Memorial Award Partners Healing Events Career Development University Resources Next Steps Our Mission Columbia Journalism School’s purpose is to educate students from all over the world to become conscientious, accomplished professional journalists. The school equips them to perform a vital and challenging function: through evidence-based reporting, to find out the truths of complicated situations, usually under time constraint, and communicate them to the public in a clear, engaging fashion. The school also produces and disseminates research about the changing contexts — legal, economic, technological, social — in which journalism takes place, with the aim of helping to shape the future of the profession and of training leaders in scholarship about our field. Our Core Values Underlying the ethical, accurate journalism we strive to teach are some core values. We believe that all human beings have dignity, that cruelty is never justified, and that power must be held to account; that a multiracial, multicultural democracy requires vigilant and consistent reporting on the rights and experiences of all people; that verified and contextualized facts are the building blocks of truthful reporting; and that journalism’s obligation is to the public and that it must remain independent and transparent about its methods and affiliations and responsible for its errors. New A Report on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at Columbia Journalism School Changing the DEI Climate: Recommendations for Improving The J-School Environment “How We Got Here” Podcast In the J-School's new podcast, six professors take a step back to examine the historical context of today’s news, looking at how race, gender, class, immigration and American empire impact the stories we cover and how we tell them. The podcast is part of our larger Diversity, Equity and Inclusion course, which includes panels and talks on how we can recognize and overcome our implicit biases, who gets to tell whose stories and how to be critical of dominant narratives. Listen now. Messages from the Journalism School Changing the DEI Climate: Recommendations for Improving The J-School Environment Columbia Journalism School Names Inaugural Director of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Letter from the Deans: Standing with our AAPI Community NBCUniversal creates $1M scholarship fund for underrepresented students at Columbia Journalism School Update on the J-School's Work on Diversity and Inclusion A Message to the J-School Community Expression of solidarity to all our graduates who are reporting on the pandemic and the protest movement while confronting discrimination Faculty Denounce Police Attacks on Journalists Dean Coll’s Letter on Diversity Report Dear Members of the J-School Community, I write with important updates about our school’s ongoing actions to strengthen diversity, equity and inclusion across the Graduate School of Journalism. I am pleased to announce the public release of an independent report – including 21 key recommendations for action – that we commissioned in late 2020 from former faculty member Lonnie Isabel. The report reflects months of interviews and data collection and analysis, as well as the input of faculty, staff and alumni volunteers. Professor Isabel‘s report offers a landmark assessment of the school’s climate, deficits in representation, and patterns of student discipline and achievement – and some of it makes for disturbing reading. Some of the findings echo testimony and calls for reform we have heard from students and recent alumni of color during town hall and other meetings, starting in the summer of 2020. The report proposes a clear, nuanced and measurable path for change, one we have already embarked upon, aided by Professor Isabel’s decision to submit his action recommendations to the school and faculty at the start of this academic year, so that we could evaluate his findings and get to work while he completed his data analysis. As some of you know, this spring, after a rigorous search, we appointed the school’s first director of diversity, equity and inclusion, Pamela McKelvin-Jefferson, who is already making an impact – among other things, by identifying how we can rigorously measure change and hold ourselves accountable for achieving it. Pamela is working with our school leaders in student life, admissions, career services, academic affairs, human resources and on our faculty to strengthen our hiring, increase access for underrepresented students, and above all to focus hard on how to support students of color and foreign students from the global south who must navigate our short, intense degree programs – too often, as Professor Isabel’s report documents, while feeling excluded or experiencing unacceptable barriers to achievement. Faculty-and-staff committees on curriculum reform and criteria for student honors and prizes have already completed important work this academic year. Yet we are all aware that much remains undone and that the work will challenge us to renew our commitment to change – and to be accountable to our community – amidst many competing priorities. Please join me in welcoming Pamela and in thanking Lonnie Isabel for his lasting contribution to the J-School Best, Steve Coll Anti-Racism Readings Black Metropolis, by Horace Cayton and St. Clair Drake The Philadelphia Negro, by W.E.B. DuBois A Place on the Corner and The Cosmopolitan Canopy, by Elijah Anderson Villa Victoria, by Mario Luis Small "The Case for Reparations,"(The Atlantic) by Ta-Nehisi Coates Interview with James Baldwin, Vanity Fair (1968) I Am Not Your Negro by James Baldwin and accompanying film by Raoul Peck Baldwin School Segregation, the Continuing Tragedy of Ferguson for Pro Publica by by Nikole Hannah-Jones (with companion podcast from This American Life) 13th, a documentary by Ava DuVernay White Fragility: Why It’s So Hard for Whites to Talk About Race by Robin DiAngelo Unfinished: The Stories Left Untold in America’s Newsrooms - Columbia Journalism Review The Loving Story, documentary directed by Nancy Buirski Columbia Journalism School’s Paul Tobenkin Memorial Prize honors outstanding reporting on racial or religious hatred, intolerance or discrimination in the United States. Read the work of past winners Shocking the Conscience: A Reporter’s Account of the Civil Rights Movement by Simeon Booker and Carol McCabe Booker The Condemnation of Blackness: Race, Crime, and the Making of Modern Urban America by Khalil Gibran Muhammad The Substance of Hope: Barack Obama and the Paradox of Progress by Jelani Cobb Reproducing Racism: How Everyday Choices Lock In White Advantage by Daria Roithmayr George Floyd Could Have Been My Brother by Rita Omokha, J’20, for Elle Resources for Reporting on Anti-Asian Violence The following resources were compiled by Prof. Kia Gregory. The Stop AAPI Hate National Report (PDF), released on 3/16/21. The organization also has an online reporting tool. AAJA Encourages Newsrooms to Empower AAPI Journalists and Their Expertise AAJA Reporting Guidelines How the media covered the mass shooting in Georgia The rush to report on Atlanta-area shootings amplified bias in news coverage Stop the “lone wolf” narrative Nuanced coverage examples: Asian American residents of Seattle speak out after Georgia shootings Asian-Americans Are Being Attacked. Why Are Hate Crime Charges So Rare? Covering Atlanta shootings and anti-Asian hate crimes Addressing Anti-Asian Attacks With Transformative Justice Anti-Asian Violence Resources Police Officer Who Tried To Whitewash and Downplay Atlanta Shooting as a ‘Bad Day’ Turns Out To Be a Racist Covering Protests Safety tips for covering protests from the Committee to Protect Journalists Covering Protests Webinar with Prof. Judith Matloff U.S. elections 2020: Journalist safety kit Reporting Safely on Covid During a Pandemic: Guidelines for CJS Students Paul Tobenkin Memorial Award The Paul Tobenkin Memorial Award honors the late New York Herald Tribune reporter, and recognizes outstanding achievements in reporting on racial or religious hatred, intolerance or discrimination in the United States. See work of winners over the years: https://journalism.columbia.edu/tobenkin#Past_Winners Partners The Ira A. Lipman Center For Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Providing leadership for the journalism community by informing and shaping the ways in which we understand race, diversity, civil and human rights. For more information, visit: https://journalism.columbia.edu/lipman-center Dart Center for Journalism and Trauma Advocates ethical and thorough reporting of trauma; compassionate, professional treatment of victims and survivors by journalists; and greater awareness by media organizations of the impact of trauma coverage on both news professionals and news consumers. Educates journalists and journalism students about the science and psychology of trauma and the implications for news coverage. Provides a professional forum for journalists in all media to analyze issues, share knowledge and ideas, and advance strategies related to the craft of reporting on violence and tragedy. Creates and sustains interdisciplinary collaboration and communication among news professionals, clinicians, academic researchers and others concerned with violence, conflict and tragedy. For more information, visit: https://dartcenter.org/ Healing Prof. Kia Gregory compiled the following resources in the wake of the March 2021 Atlanta shooting: Examining Oppression in the Asian American Community #StopAsianHate, Resources for Taking Action and Taking Care Asian Mental Health Collective Asian Solidarity Workshop Our Experience Asian Lifenet Hotline The Columbia School of Social Work compiled the list of resources below in collaboration with the Black & Latinx Student Caucus at the Columbia Mailman School of Public Health. This list draws inspiration from an article written by Zahra Barnes titled 44 Mental Health Resources for Black People Trying to Survive in This Country. https://actionlab.socialwork.columbia.edu/content/mental-health-resources Events Race in America: Covering Far-Right Extremism, sponsored by the Ira A. Lipman Center Reporting during the rise of anti-AAPI aggression: Reporting and coping tips for Asian and Asian-American students and their allies, from the Dart Center for Journalism and Trauma Race in America: Covering Violence against Asians, sponsored by the Ira A. Lipman Center The New Journalism: Rethinking the News in the Wake of COVID and George Floyd, sponsored by the Columbia Journalism Review. Picturing Black Deaths: A conversation with Emily Bernard and Jelani Cobb Black Lives Matter, Protest, and Creating Change, hosted by the Office of University Life and moderated by the Journalism School’s Prof. Jelani Cobb, director of the Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights, which promotes research and reporting on race, diversity, civil and human rights. Covering Race and Criminal Justice: Ko Bragg, Sean Campbell and Eileen Grench in conversation with June Cross. Reporting on Race and Criminal Justice: Mark Rochester, Editor in Chief, Type Investigations in conversation with the Dart Center's Bruce Shapiro Career Development The Office of Career Development trains, supports and aggressively advocates for every student regardless of race, gender, ethnicity, geography, religion, disability, academic and extracurricular interest, family circumstance, sexual orientation, gender-identity, or socio-economic background. Our office is committed to helping all students navigate the job process, find mentors and negotiate equitable salaries. Our one-on-one counseling is tailored to each individual, and we aim to help every student discover their path, identify and explore a variety of opportunities and highlight their strengths and skills. We have gathered the resources here to help students confront the unique issues and career challenges they may face, evaluate the commitment of potential workplaces to diversity, equity and inclusion and to connect with affinity groups, allies and mentors. GENERAL RESOURCES JOURNALISTS OF COLOR RESOURCE GUIDE Comprehensive resources gathered by Lam Thuy Vo, Disha Raychaudhuri and Moiz Syed with support from The News Integrity Initiative at the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism at CUNY. Resources cover four key areas: Career growth: Grants and fellowships, mentor and peer programs, guide to navigating spaces and more. Salary and benefits: Data, tactics and strategies for negotiating salary. Accountability: Resources for improving newsroom diversity -- books, surveys, directories and more. Training: Sources for developing new skills. TIPS AND RESOURCES FROM THE COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY CENTER FOR CAREER EDUCATION (CCE) CCE provides tips, strategies and resources tailored to several groups of students, including: Students of color International students Students with disabilities LGBTQ students Women students JOURNALISM MENTOR PROGRAMS Programs that connect young journalists with mentors. BLACK MEDIA DIRECTORY A searchable database of media outlets that primarily serve Black communities. Compiled by the Center for Community Media at the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism at CUNY. MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS Many of these organizations host events, post job listings and offer resources and access to mentors. They are excellent starting points for networking. Several of the national associations have student chapters at the Journalism School. You can see more details on this page. Journalists of Color: A Slack community to share discussions, resources and opportunities. National Association of Black Journalists (NABJ) National Association of Hispanic Journalists (NAHJ) Native American Journalists Association (NAJA) Asian Americans Journalists Association (AAJA) South Asian Journalists Association (SAJA) The Arab and Middle-Eastern Journalists Association (AMEJA) The Association of LGBTQ Journalists (NLGJA) Trans Journalists Association (TGA) Alliance for Women in Media New York Women in Communications The Newswomen's Club of New York Women in Radio (WIR) JOB SEARCHING Most of the organizations listed above include job boards as part of their membership. Here are some additional resources, including several sites aimed at editors who are searching to hire a diversity of voices in their newsrooms. @culturedish: Jobs and discussion of diversity in science writing Binders Full of Writing Jobs: A community for women and gender non-conforming writers of all backgrounds and experience levels to connect, network, ask questions, and learn from one another. See also Binders Full of Digital Journalists and Binders Full of Women on Facebook. Disabled Writers: Increasing disability diversity in journalism, includes database of disabled writers. See also @disabledwriters Editors of Color: Includes searchable database of editors and links to multiple databases of diverse talent. EveryStylishGirl: Networking, job opportunities and events for Black and Brown women interested in working in media companies. JournalismNext.com: Job postings and community for minority journalists. Journalism Job and Media Newsletters: A general list of useful sources of information about jobs and general media news. Journalism Job Resources: Listing compiled by the Society of Professional Journalists of general job resources, including job boards for a range of companies. LADIO: A listerv for women who work in radio and podcasting. Jobs, freelance gigs, advice on radio/podcasting and more. POC in Audio: A searchable database. Sign up if you want to work in audio. Women Photograph: An initiative focused on women and non-binary visual journalists. Writers of Color: A searchable database. Follow @writersofcolor to track job openings and freelance opportunities. ORGANIZATIONS PROMOTING DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION IN MEDIA Emma Bowen Foundation: The organization focuses on undergraduates, but their job board may be of interest. Firelight Media: Promotes documentaries by and about communities of color. Support for emerging filmmakers of color. Ida B. Wells Society for Investigative Reporting: Focused on increasing and retaining investigative reporters and editors of color. Project Involve: Fellowships, grants and awards to minority filmmakers. Public Media for All: Raising awareness of the need for diversity, equity and inclusion in public media. The Maynard Institute for Journalism Education: Trainings and programs to promote newsroom diversity and fair and accurate reporting that reflects all segments of society. The National Multicultural Alliance: A group of organizations supporting production of content about diverse and undercovered communities. T. Howard Foundation: Promotes diversity in media and entertainment. University Resources COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, EDUCATION AND ASSESSMENT Graduate Initiative on Inclusion and Engagement is part of Columbia’s commitment to diversity and success of all graduate and professional students. Campus Conversations Initiative is a dialogue-based initiative from the Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging at Columbia centered on building community through conversation. Office of Multicultural Affairs provides open trainings and resources on diversity and inclusion for the Columbia Community. LGBTQ @ Columbia provides services and resources to the LGBTQ community including offering awareness trainings through the SafeZone Training program. Sexual Respect Initiative helps to create a campus community guided by sexual respect and committed to ending sexual gender-based misconduct. Center for Teaching and Learning has resources on inclusive teaching for graduate students and faculty including an online course Inclusive Teaching: Supporting All Students in the College Classroom. Taskforce on Inclusion and Belonging at Columbia works to identify issues and develop responsive strategies that address students’ experiences both in and outside of the classroom. The Provost's Office Statistical Abstract provides timely and accurate data pertaining to admissions, enrollment, degrees and certificates, tuition, financial aid, faculty, staff, and other institutional areas of interest. COMMUNITY ACCOUNTABILITY Reporting an incident (non-confidential resources) If you have experienced an incident of discrimination or harassment you can report it to any of the offices below and it will be rerouted to the appropriate office. The Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action for incidents involving staff, officers or faculty. Click here to report an incident. The Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards oversees incidents regarding Discrimination, Harassment and Gender-Based Misconduct between students. Click here to report an incident. CONFIDENTIAL RESOURCES Columbia has several offices that are confidential and will not file a report. Please reach out to the following offices if you would like to speak with someone confidentially. Sexual Violence Response Counseling and Psychological Services Columbia Health Office of the Chaplain Ombuds Office Next Steps We are having ongoing conversations with faculty, staff and alumni and committed to taking concrete action in the coming months, including: Publishing an annual Diversity Report Increasing the diversity of the student body, starting with providing scholarships for students from Historically Black College and Universities Increasing the diversity of our faculty and staff Stressing issues of diversity and inclusion in our teaching Addressing broader issues of climate TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School