Exclusive Fellowships and Internships | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Careers Exclusive Fellowships and Internships Exclusive Fellowships and Internships After graduation, students have the opportunity to land numerous special paid postgraduate reporting positions ranging in length from three months to a year. Some of the opportunities are based at Columbia. Others are located at news outlets in the U.S. and abroad. Opportunities evolve yearly. The companies listed here are those who participated recently. Application information will be available here. Jump to: Exclusive Opportunities through the Journalism School Exclusive Opportunities at News Companies Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting | Post-Graduate Reporting Fellows Institute for Nonprofit News | Internship Program Employers: Join Us Exclusive Opportunities through the Journalism School Columbia Journalism Review Three nine-month fellowships at Columbia Journalism Review. Cross-Borders Data Investigations Fellowship Several fellowships of at least six months with fellows focused on the collection and analysis of data to find patterns and explanations to complex globalized problems. The Cross-Borders Data Project is supervised by Kristen Lombardi, Columbia Journalism Investigations Editor and Post-Graduate Reporting Program Director, and Giannina Segnini, Knight Chair and Data Journalism Director. Global Migration Reporting Fellowship At least two reporting fellowships of at least six months on gender and migration, focusing on U.S. immigration law, border politics, international refugee policy, and more that contribute to the Global Migration Project. Supervised by Kristen Lombardi, Columbia Journalism Investigations Editor and Post-Graduate Reporting Program Director. Hidden Epidemics Reporting Fellowship Six- to 12-month-long fellowship with fellows reporting on climate change and communities of color. Columbia Journalism Investigations is supervised by Kristen Lombardi, Columbia Journalism Investigations Editor and Post-Graduate Reporting Program Director. Columbia Journalism Investigations Reporting Fellowship Several fellowships of at least nine months with fellows working on one or more investigative reporting projects and who are focused on the collection and analysis of data and documents and other investigative techniques to identify patterns and connect dots on complex problems. Columbia Journalism Investigations is supervised by Kristen Lombardi, Columbia Journalism Investigations Editor and Post-Graduate Reporting Program Director. Columbia Journalism Investigations Voter Access Project Fellowship Two six-month fellowships on voter access and disenfranchisement in the U.S. The Voter Access Project is supervised by Kristen Lombardi, Columbia Journalism Investigations Editor and Post-Graduate Reporting Program Director, and Stephen Stirling, Project Editor. Columbia Post-Doctoral Research Scholar One 12-month Columbia J-School fellowship assisting Dean Jelani Cobb in the completion of various writing projects. Exclusive Opportunities at News Companies AARP Editorial associate reporting fellowship; six months in Washington, D.C. ABC News David Jayne Fellowship Broadcast/digital reporting fellowship; 8 weeks in London. Airfare provided. ABC News Frank Reynolds Fellowship Broadcast/digital reporting fellowship; 8 weeks in Washington, D.C. Al Jazeera Media Network Provides an opportunity for two graduates to work at Al Jazeera's English headquarters in Doha, Qatar; three months, starting in September. BBC News At least one multimedia fellowship; three- to six-month summer multimedia fellowship in New York City. BBC News Video Fellowship At least one digital/video fellowship; six months in the Washington, D.C. bureau. Brown Institute | Stanford University Department of Political Science Criminal justice and media criticism reporting fellowship; 10 weeks, remote. Brown Institute in partnership with Consumer Reports Digital Lab Two research assistants focusing on data collection and volunteer data; 10 weeks, remote. Bustle Up to two reporting fellowships; 13 weeks in New York City. Cannabis Wire One 12-week, part-time reporting fellowship in New York City. Coda Journalism video fellowship; six to nine months in Tbilisi, Georgia. CoinDesk Reporting fellowship focused on blockchain technology and the cryptocurrency economy; three months in New York City. Connecticut Mirror One Investigative Researcher Fellow; one year in Hartford, Conn. Eurasianet Editorial associate with focus on reporting in Eurasia, including Russia, Ukraine, the South Caucasus and Central Asia; three to four months in New York City. Financial Times One CJS/SIPA Exclusive: Financial Times US Diversity Fellowship; six months in New York City. FRONTLINE Two enterprise journalism fellowships; one year in Boston. Grupo Clarín Up to two internships; 10 weeks in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Insider, Inc. At least one fellowship in reporting, video, editing or social media; six months in New York City. La Stampa San Paolo Fellowship Two to three reporting fellowships, which include weekly salary, housing and transportation; 12 weeks in Turin or Rome, Italy. McClatchy Video/Audio Fellowships Two full-time, temporary positions in McClatchy bureaus across the U.S.; six months (locations vary). NBC News Richard Engel Unit Three months in London (U.K. work authorization required). Nikkei Asia Reporting Internship; 8 weeks (summer) in New York City. Reuters Institute at the University of Oxford All expenses paid for two graduates to study at Oxford University and the Reuters Institute; three months in Oxford, U.K. Richemont North America + Brown Institute for Media Innovation Reporting Fellowship; 10 weeks (summer) in New York City. TELEMUNDO Fellowship in the News division; 12 months in Miami. THE 19th Reporting Fellowship; 10 weeks (summer); remote. Funded by The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School THE CITY Reporting Fellowship; 10 weeks (summer) in New York City. Funded by The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School. The Counter (formerly The New Food Economy) One 10-week reporting fellowship; remote. Funded by The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School The Marshall Project One Data Journalism Fellow; 10 weeks in New York. Funded by The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School. The Real Deal Two fellowships; 12 weeks in New York. The Trace One Accountability Reporting Fellowship; six months in New York City. Funded by The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise Business School. Transmitter Summer audio production internship in Brooklyn; 10 weeks. Funded by The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise/ Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting | Post-Graduate Reporting Fellows At a time when the economic crisis caused by the COVID-19 epidemic continues to affect students and employers across the nation, Columbia Journalism School is collaborating for a third year with the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting to provide graduating students with reporting grants to support their transitions to professional newsrooms. Columbia Journalism School established a $50,000 fund in 2022, 2021 and 2020, administered by the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting, to award individual grants to graduates so they can continue work on their theses or develop other freelance stories to be pitched for publication. These reporting grants have also funded local news reporting and international reporting. The Pulitzer Center is soliciting proposals from the class of 2022, and solicited proposals from the class of 2021 in Spring 2021 and from the class of 2020 in Summer 2020, to report on enterprising stories focused on crises anywhere in the world. Reporting Fellow selections are made jointly by the Columbia Journalism School and the Pulitzer Center based on applications that include project proposals. Fellows receive mentorship from the Pulitzer Center team, which also pairs each Fellow with an adviser who has a particular interest or expertise in the Reporting Fellow's proposed project. The reporting grants are funded by generous alumni of the school, and the international reporting grants are funded by the Simon and June Li Center for Global Journalism, a new center at Columbia committed to preparing journalists to work, think and report globally. Recipients of the international grants are known as the Li Center for Global Journalism Fellows. The Pulitzer Center, founded 15 years ago, is dedicated to raising awareness of underreported global issues through direct support for quality journalism across all media platforms and a unique program of outreach and education to schools and universities. The Columbia Journalism School is a member of the Pulitzer Center’s Campus Consortium, with an emphasis on support for the school’s documentary filmmaking students. In the inaugural year, 18 reporting grants were awarded to members of the Class of 2020. 2020 Post Graduate Reporting Fellows and Project Topics Stories included: Food Revolution in New York's Latino Community (Grub Street/New York Magazine) | Muriel Alarcón '20 A Quiet Revolution: Female Imams Taking Over an LA Mosque (The Guardian) | Amel Brahmi '20 Pandemic and Human Rights Abuses in Uganda: Deaths, Injuries, and Broken Promises (Pulitzer Center) | Musinguzi Blanshe '20 Non-Unanimous Juries in Louisiana (The Nation) | Zoe Chevalier '20 Environmentalists Target Mountains of Fertilizer Waste (Undark Magazine) | Bianca Fortis '20 Homeless in a Pandemic-stricken Chicago (Chicago Reader) | Sarah Gelbard '20 The Former Soviet Union Immigrant Vote (Pulitzer Center) | Anastassia Gliadkovskaya '20 Pills in the Post: How COVID Reopened the Abortion Wars (The Guardian) | Sarah Hurtes '20 Credit unions for formerly incarcerated persons in New York (in progress) | Kirsti Karttunen '20 Autism and ECT (in progress) | Astrid Landon '20 In Politically Torn Tbilisi, Transgender Sex Workers Fight to Survive (POLITICO Europe) | Chloe Lula '20 COVID-19 and Indigenous Communities in Latin America (Goats & Soda/NPR) | Sofia Moutinho '20 One Woman’s Quest to Defy the Odds of Addiction (Belt Magazine) | Aryana Michelle Noroozi '20 Sustainable Farming Revolution in Puerto Rico (Miami Herald) | Syra Ortiz-Blanes '20 The Olive Trees Apocalypse (Atlas Obscura) | Agostino Petroni '20 Special Needs and COVID-19 (in progress) | Sadia Rafiquddin '20 A Year of Pandemic Pivots: An Exhausted Fine Dining Industry Inches Toward Reopening After a Year of Unimaginable Losses (Eater) | Sara Sheridan Abuse, Neglect and Institutional Racism in Ireland: The O'Reilly Sisters (in progress) | Isobel Thompson '20 In the second year, 10 reporting grants were awarded to members of the Class of 2021. 2021 Post Graduate Reporting Fellows and Project Topics Stories included: Ghana’s new draconian anti-LGBT law (in progress) | Kwasi Gyamfi Asiedu '21 In Lockdown With Their Rapists (PassBlue) | Damilola Banjo '21 Land, Water, Blood (in progress) | Richard Brown '21 South Africa: PrEP and HIV/AIDS Interventions (in progress) | Shane Burke '21 COVID-19 in Nandi County, Kenya (in progress) | Anna Gordon '21 Reconstruction in Diyarbakır, Turkey (in progress) | Monica Hunter-Hart '21 Who Holds Halfway Houses Accountable? (in progress) | Rebecca Kelliher '21 Wall Street Is Coming for Your Tap Water (in progress) | Catharine Smith '21 The Dark Side of Italy's Rubber Valley (in progress) | Giulia Pozzi '21 Survivors of Unexploded Ordnance in Laos (in progress) | Matthew Reysio-Cruz '21 Read More: Reporting Fellow Stories and Projects: Articles, photography, multimedia, and field notes by Reporting Fellows, published by the Pulitzer Center and other news media outlets. Institute for Nonprofit News | Internship Program Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, responding to a news media job market in crisis due to the COVID-19 virus, collaborated with the Institute for Nonprofit News (INN) in 2020, in 2021 and in 2022 to provide graduating students with paid internships to support their transitions to professional journalism. The internship program provides 10- to 12-week paid internships at non-profit news media companies, through a partnership with the Institute for Nonprofit News. Recent graduates are placed at regional news outlets to cover local communities, as well as at national outlets, where they will work in international reporting. Graduating students work as reporting interns covering issues ranging from local to international, during the summer or fall months. In the collaboration, INN arranges for some of its 300-member news organizations to recruit and select graduates from the graduating class into paid editorial reporting jobs. Students in all of the school’s master’s degree programs, including international scholars, are eligible to apply directly to the employers who will oversee their work. The local news internships and reporting grants are funded by generous alumni of the school, including through the Dean’s Fund for Post Graduate Reporting Opportunities, a new multi-donor fund that honors outgoing Dean Steve Coll and anticipates the arrival of a new dean. The international reporting internships and reporting grants are funded by the Simon and June Li Center for Global Journalism, a new center at Columbia committed to preparing journalists to work, think and report globally. In 2022, there will be four Li Center for Global Journalism Fellows, two at PBS NewsHour, one at Coda Story, and another at Honolulu Civil Beat. The Scripps Howard Foundation supports three internships, two at Religion News Service and one at Jewish Telegraphic Agency, all to be administered through INN. INN was founded in 2009 as an investigative news consortium. It works to strengthen the trusted sources of news by growing a network of nonprofit, nonpartisan news organizations. With more than 2,000 journalists in the INN network now generating some 150,000 original reports a year, the network’s news footprint is now similar in scale to NPR and the NPR affiliate network. INN members share news coverage, editorial and business resources and function as an innovation network developing new models for news media. In the inaugural year, internships were awarded to members of the Class of 2020 at the following INN-member newsrooms. In 2021, internships were awarded to members of the Class of 2021 at the following INN-member newsrooms. In 2022, internships will be awarded to members of the Class of 2022 at the following INN-member newsrooms: Employers: Join Us Partner with us to create a post-graduate fellowship or internship position in your newsroom. For more information, please contact Lauren Mack, Program Manager, Office of Career Development: lem2111@columbia.edu. TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.