Investigative Journalism Specialization | Stabile M.S. Degree | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home Programs Master of Science M.S. Investigative Specialization Alex Daugherty, ’16 M.S. Stabile, From York, Pennsylvania He sold his Master’s Project to The New York Times. Learn how his project came together. M.S. Investigative Specialization The Toni Stabile Center for Investigative Journalism Jump to: The Stabile Program Impact & Opportunities Curriculum Classes Student Work Faculty The Stabile Program Since 2006, the Toni Stabile Center for Investigative Journalism has been training students for distinguished careers in investigative journalism. Candidates for the Master of Science degree are able to pursue this specialization, which is platform-neutral and is taken in addition to the traditional M.S. curriculum. Stabile students are required to take skills classes and seminars in investigative reporting. They spend the year learning investigative methods and are required to do an investigative report for their Master’s Project. The Stabile Center provides support for their research and reporting, including paying for travel costs. Stipends are available to allow students to pursue their reporting projects after graduation. In order to graduate with a specialization in investigative journalism, students must apply to the center as part of their application for admission to the Journalism School. Impact & Opportunities The Stabile investigative program turns out top-caliber graduates able to thrive in today’s fast-changing media environment. Stabile alumni are currently doing watchdog reporting for leading news organizations, including The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, ProPublica, 60 Minutes, Vice and Buzzfeed. They are reporting around the world – in the UK, India, Colombia, Hong Kong, Spain and other countries. Stabile graduates have won top journalism prizes, including the Pulitzer Prize, the Polk Award, the Livingston Award, the Scripps Howard and the Selden Ring Award for Investigative Journalism. Student work supported by the Stabile program has been published or aired by leading news organizations, including The New York  Times, National Public Radio, USA Today, Slate, ProPublica and PBS. These stories have prompted investigations of erring officials, policy reversals and the enactment of new laws. The Stabile Center helps support student research and travel for investigative projects. Over the summer, students who have a commitment to publish or air can apply for fellowships that will allow them to continue working on their projects. During the school year, Stabile students work in teams on investigative projects that they will pitch for publication. Team projects have been published by ProPublica, the Guardian, the Center for Public Integrity, the Huffington Post, Al Jazeera America and Caixin Magazine in China.   Curriculum View the full M.S. Stabile curriculum. These are required courses for the Investigative Specialization, open to Stabile students only. Fall: Investigative Tools   Professors: Sheila Coronel and James Mintz   The course will walk students through the investigative process – from the time a story is conceived to the formulation of an investigative hypothesis to the actual reporting and writing. It will stress the importance of documentary evidence and help students analyze both public and private, as well as paper and digital, records. Other forms of evidence, such as maps, social media feeds and images, will be discussed.  Spring: The Investigative Seminar   Professors: Sheila Coronel and James Mintz  This seminar will examine the shifts that are taking place in the media and challenge students to think about how they can produce, pitch and fund investigative stories in such a dynamic environment. It will also familiarize them with the investigative tradition and the traditional investigative narrative forms. Classes In addition to the required classes, Stabile students choose one of the many spring investigative classes that are open to all students. Please note: The classes listed here represent recent offerings at the Journalism School. Choices vary each semester depending on faculty availability and other considerations. Classes described now may change or be dropped to make room for new additions. How to Cover Armies and Spies Professor: Steve Coll How to Cover Armies and Spies Steve Coll Armies and intelligence services are among the most powerful and secretive of institutions, in democracies and authoritarian states alike. They are monopolists of the legitimate use of force, arbiters of war and peace and outsized consumers of national budgets. Covering militaries and spies well and revealingly is hard work that requires preparation and commitment. But it is vital journalism with a public purpose. And occasionally it is journalism that changes the world, from Sy Hersh’s My Lai massacre reporting to Abu Ghraib to Edward Snowden. This course will prepare students to cover militaries and intelligence services, whether in the United States or abroad. We will take a broad approach, understanding security issues to include human rights, migration and the environment. We will review diverse sourcing strategies, durable story genres and professional and ethical conundrums on the beat. The intention is to equip students to take on defense, intelligence and related human rights reporting as a subject area for daily reporting, longform investigation or as a recurring part of a diversified career, with the understanding that the best sourcing in this field can require years to develop. Each student will complete a significant piece of narrative reporting accessible from the United States. We will also undertake a class project about the war in Syria, incorporating data journalism methods and investigative reporting on public records, satellite imagery, user-generated content and confidential source development. The project should provide a strong, accessible body of collaborative work for each enrolled student to highlight in a portfolio. The class will satisfy workshop requirements for both investigative and data concentrators in the M.S. program. Investigating Health Care Professor: Charles Ornstein Investigating Health Care Charles Ornstein If the U.S. health care system were a patient, it would be undergoing treatment for whiplash. After years in which the number of Americans without health insurance dropped to historic lows, President Donald Trump is pledging to undo his predecessor's legacy while delivering "great health care" to the American public. Can that be done? Welcome to investigating health care. During this class, we will explore hospitals in disarray, exploding prescription drug prices, a mental health system in crisis and consumers struggling to afford their health insurance premiums. You will learn how to navigate one of journalism's most complicated beats, all with an investigative reporter's eye. Individual classes will focus on hospitals, health professionals, our aging society, controversies in medicine, insurance companies, health reform and the pharmaceutical industry. We also will dissect the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and what's taken place under Trump. The course will explore many issues beyond health care, including politics, consumer affairs, finances, the law, ethics and demographics. Along the way, students will become skilled in using public records, understanding bureaucratic agencies and querying databases that can be put to use on practically any beat. Class assignments will require use of investigative skills, interviewing techniques and interaction with bureaucracies. You'll work hard in this class but may leave with clips published in major U.S. media outlets. Investigating the Failures of the Mental Health System Professor: Meg Kissinger Investigating the Failures of the Mental Health System Meg Kissinger Mental illness is all around us. One in five Americans struggle with some form of it. We spend more than $300 billion a year on psychiatric care in this country. Still, these diseases are widely misunderstood and rarely discussed in non-judgmental, clear-headed ways. Care for people is often poorly managed and unavailable for those who need it most. We tend to blame the victims, shove them out of sight, into prisons and onto the streets. Increasingly, we are seeing the results of these flawed policies played out to tragic ends. This investigative reporting class will examine the failures of the system and their consequences for all of us. Students will produce stories about what is broken and consider what can be fixed. We will learn how to build an investigation of a mental health system by interviewing people with mental illness and hearing about their struggles and success. We'll go to where they live, talk to those who care for them, question policy makers and advocates. We'll mine for data, explore trends, analyze social policy and spending priorities. In short, we'll give light to what has been a very dark corner. Investigative Project Professor: Walt Bogdanich Investigative Project Walt Bogdanich We will explore the mission, methods and history of investigative reporting, as seen through a semester-long project examining a single subject. Our goal will be to build the foundation for a publishable, investigative article based on original research, not recycled government reports. You will learn how to find topics worthy of investigating, how to prove or disprove your investigative hypothesis through interviews, public records and data, and how to present your findings in narrative form.This class is much more than just learning the tools used in investigative reporting.It is also about developing the mindset to make the best use of those tools. Students will divide into teams, each focusing on a separate topic. Seminars will include a general lecture and an opportunity for teams to share their findings and agree upon reporting assignments for the upcoming week. Each student must write a weekly memo that includes: 1) a list of individuals you approached for interviews and records searched; 2) a detailed memo on each significant interview.You must exchange these memos with your team members before our seminar.At the end of the semester, each student will be required to write a 2,500-word investigative article based on team reports. Shoe Leather: Multi-Casting Investigative Stories Professor: Joanne Faryon Rachel Quester Peter Leonard Shoe Leather: Multi-Casting Investigative Stories Joanne Faryon Rachel Quester Peter Leonard This class is for students who want to take their long-form journalism beyond print. In it, students will work in small teams to produce episodes for an original podcast — SHOE LEATHER — and create a corresponding web page with text, photos, primary source documents and short videos. Students will take a deep dive into a specific news event from New York City in the 1980’s, and explore how it was covered at the time, and its impact decades later. Using online resources and old fashioned shoe leather reporting, the goal of each podcast episode will be to find the main newsmakers of the past event and reveal how the news coverage influenced their lives. Students might pursue crime stories, missing persons cases, the rise and fall of political figures, catastrophic events that impacted a neighborhood, natural disasters that swept through a community, or an act of heroism that received wide acclaim. The stories will take the listener back in time using clear narrative writing and archival tape, and explain the significance of the news event and the role the newsmaker played. Three seminars will be co-taught by professors Faryon and Maharidge. They will focus on the cross-over between long-form print narratives and storytelling for journalism-driven podcasts. Students will learn how to plan their reporting to ensure a three-act structure, and animate stories beyond talking heads. They’ll learn to think in scenes, and how those scenes translate into print, audio and video. This class prepares students to produce long form audio for a digital newsroom such as the LA Times, or podcast creation company. It will also train students to think like a “platform neutral” journalist — in other words — open to telling stories in different ways for different audiences. Using Data to Investigate Across Borders Professor: Giannina Segnini Using Data to Investigate Across Borders Giannina Segnini Exponential amounts of information about the world are being produced daily and journalists everywhere need to have a global mindset if they are to write about organized crime, corruption, human trafficking, global trade and threats to the environment. We live in an increasingly borderless world. Goods, money, people and ideas flow freely across borders thanks to technology and the liberalization of customs and money controls. We all benefit from globalization and the free flow of commerce that it makes possible. But there’s a dark side: A borderless world also makes it easier for crooks and criminals to do their work. Around the world, journalists are developing techniques to cope with the globalization of crime, corruption and environmental damage. They are adopting strategies that include the smart use of data and collaboration across borders. The volume and velocity with which information and data are being produced and the variety of open sources currently available make it possible to develop reporting strategies that are truly global. This course will prepare students to find global data, process and analyze it; and to report on it from New York while working with sources and possibly other journalists overseas. Students will learn skills like doing background checks on people and companies, mining the social web, tracking offshore entities and finding assets and cargo. They will be divided into reporting teams and will be able to find, scrape, consolidate, analyze and visualize data in the context of a big global story by the end of the semester. See all classes Student Work For her master's project, Tess Riski, '19 M.S. Stabile, investigated Nurx, an online app that allows women to order birth control pills. After connecting with two Times reporters also looking into the company, her story on the risks of using the “Uber of birth control” was published in The New York Times. Sriphaphob Thanthong-Knight, '18 M.S. Stabile, sent FOIA requests to 50 states to find out whether state prisons were providing medication to thousands of inmates with Hepatitis C. He found that roughly 97 percent of inmates with the disease are not getting the cure, risking their health and that of others. For Guardian US, Hibah Ansari and Lila Hassan, both '20 M.S. Stabile, reported on American Muslims preparing for Ramadan under COVID-19 lockdown. American Muslims face a lonely Ramadan during lockdown Aaron Leibowitz, '18 M.S. Stabile, examined how schools are using social media monitoring firms to monitor students in the hope of preventing mass shootings and suicides. His findings were published on the Times front page. See more student work Faculty Steve Coll Dean of Columbia Journalism School; Henry R. Luce Professor of Journalism Sheila Coronel Toni Stabile Professor of Professional Practice in Investigative Journalism; Director, Toni Stabile Center for Investigative Journalism Giannina Segnini John S. and James L. Knight Professor of Professional Practice in Data Journalism Kim Barker Adjunct Faculty Walt Bogdanich Adjunct Faculty Justin Elliott Adjunct Faculty Robert Faturechi Adjunct Faculty Sarah Fitzpatrick Adjunct Faculty Ellen Gabler Adjunct Faculty Kim Kleman Adjunct Faculty Michael LaForgia Adjunct Faculty Tamar Lewin Adjunct Faculty Tom Meagher Adjunct Faculty James Mintz Adjunct Faculty Ese Olumhense Adjunct Faculty Charles Ornstein Adjunct Faculty Matt Rocheleau Adjunct Faculty Deborah Sontag Adjunct associate professor Sarah Stillman Adjunct Faculty; Project Editor, Global Migration Project Kendall Taggart Adjunct Faculty Ginger Thompson Adjunct Faculty Christopher Weaver Adjunct Faculty Duff Wilson Adjunct Faculty See all faculty TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.