Dartmouth.Mental.Health.Student.Union@dartmouth.edu Instagram Instagram Home About Get Involved Mental Health Action Day “Taboo” Topics Discussion Series Peer Support Ambassador Program Mind the Gap Mental Health Resources Select Page Your Mental Health Matters. Welcome to the website of the Dartmouth Mental Health Student Union! We are student advocates of mental health who strive to create a campus in which mental health is regarded with the attention it deserves, free from any form of stigma. It is our goal to normalize mental health, promote existing college resources, and create new initiatives and programs for the benefit of Dartmouth students. Peer Support Resources Our Blog: Mind the Gap According to Wikipedia, the term “mind the gap” refers to “an audible or visual warning phrase issued to rail passengers to take caution while crossing the horizontal, and in some cases vertical, spatial gap between the train door and the station platform.” The problem with a gap is that if we’re not warned about it, then at any moment we could fall through the cracks. The most dangerous gaps are those that can’t be seen, and the mental health gap at Dartmouth is very real, but difficult to see… Read More Learn more Get Involved Mind the Gap – New Post Every Monday! All the Simple Things May 2, 2022 on melancholia April 25, 2022 Men: You Don’t Have to Suffer in Silence April 17, 2022 The Past and The Present: Reconciling Trauma with the Dartmouth Bubble April 4, 2022 Reflections on Peer Support: From the 21F-22W Cohort March 1, 2022 Subscribe to Our Blog! Please, insert a valid email. Thank you, your email will be added to the mailing list once you click on the link in the confirmation email. Your Email Leave this field blank Spam protection has stopped this request. Please contact site owner for help. This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Coping with the Crisis https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u-qctBOMMBA Instagram Dartmouth Mental Health Student Union