Skip to content About Fellows Community Impact Senior Alumni Become a fellow News Search for... Navigation Menu Navigation Menu About Fellows Community Impact Senior Alumni Become a fellow News Search for... JSK names U.S. journalism fellows for 2022-23 by JSK May 19, 2022May 19, 2022 7 min read News The John S. Knight Journalism Fellowships today named eight U.S. Fellows to join the five international fellows previously announced for the class of 2022-2023. It is the first cohort to return to a residential fellowship program on the Stanford University campus since the start of the pandemic. The U.S. fellows are veteran and emerging journalism leaders who will work on practical solutions to address the industry’s long-standing neglect of underserved communities. Their projects will address news and information gaps, systemic racism and the deterioration of legacy local news outlets. “We’re thrilled to be heading back to campus this fall with a diverse group of fellows who have taken the initiative to begin exploring ways to tackle some big issues facing journalism,” said JSK Director Dawn Garcia. “The class includes talented people from big and small newsrooms, entrepreneurs and public media journalists, whose growing organizations are offering alternatives to address expanding local news deserts.” Focus areas for this year’s cohort include developing sustainable mental health support for journalists; integrating equity in newsroom culture; expanding access to audio journalism for those with hearing impairments; providing systemic support for freelancers of color; exploring ways that video forensics and innovative technologies can increase access to local news and “town square” conversations, and empowering working-class communities of color with information they need to participate in civic life. The fellowship runs from Sept. 6, 2022, to May 31, 2023. The fellows will document their work publicly throughout the year, highlighting key strategies and lessons learned. Early in the pandemic, JSK pivoted from its long-standing on-campus fellowship and designed a remote program for U.S. journalists working to address news and information gaps in their local underserved and underrepresented communities. During the past two years, JSK supported 21 local journalism leaders with stipends, coaching and peer-to-peer learning via Zoom as they worked in their communities. “We learned so much from these two years piloting a new model of remote JSK Community Impact Fellowships and the fellows made great progress with their on-the-ground projects to listen, learn and serve the information needs of their local communities of color,” Garcia said. “We are excited to have JSK Fellows back on campus this fall, and we will also continue exploring ways in the future to help local journalists who serve the information needs in the communities where they live.” “We learned so much from these two years piloting a new model of remote JSK Community Impact Fellowships and the fellows made great progress with their on-the-ground projects to listen, learn and serve the information needs of their local communities of color. We are excited to have JSK Fellows back on campus this fall, and we will also continue exploring ways in the future to help local journalists who serve the information needs in the communities where they live.”Dawn Garcia, JSK director JSK provides fellows with several benefits, including a stipend of $95,000, a housing supplement and an additional supplement for fellows with children. JSK also covers Stanford health insurance for fellows, spouses and children. As part of a cohort of innovative journalism leaders, fellows receive individual coaching, participate in leadership workshops and can sit in on Stanford classes. They have access to the world-class faculty and other resources of Stanford. They will join five international fellows already selected for the 2022-2023 academic year. The international fellows are journalists from Ecuador, Guatemala, Kashmir, Philippines and Turkey who had previously committed to the program and could not participate due to the coronavirus pandemic. These international JSK Fellows will pursue a range of innovative ideas that seek to champion press freedom in a world where journalists and independent media are increasingly under attack. The Class of 2022-2023 joins a thriving JSK community. More than 1,000 people from over 80 countries have participated in journalism fellowships at Stanford since the program first began in 1966. The U.S. Fellows were selected by the JSK Program Committee, a group of Stanford faculty, staff and journalists, with review by JSK alumni and the fellowship directors. The Program Committee members are: Adam Banks, professor, faculty director, Program in Writing and Rhetoric and the Institute for Diversity in the Arts, Stanford University; Sara Catania, vice president of network strategy, Solutions Journalism Network; Dawn Garcia, JSK director; Sarah Stein Greenberg, executive director, Hasso Plattner Institute of Design, Stanford University; Tonya Mosley, co-host, NPR’s Here & Now; host, Truth Be Told; Marcia Parker, publisher and chief operating officer, CALmatters; Cheryl Phillips, Hearst Professional in Residence, director, Big Local News, Stanford University and Ricardo Sandoval-Palos, public editor, Public Broadcasting Service. U.S. fellows, JSK Class of 2022-2023 Alex Goldmark executive producer, NPR, New York, New York Exploring how local radio could use new technology to create podcasts that preserve the “town square” aspect of live call-in programs and are more inclusive. Martina Guzmán race and justice journalist, Detroit, Michigan Designing a journalism initiative that centers the needs of freelance Black, Latino, Asian, and Indigenous journalists to foster greater diversity in local reporting. Jake Nicol independent video journalist, San Francisco, California Exploring how local news organizations can use video forensic reporting and open-source intelligence techniques to produce engaging accountability reporting. Luisa Ortiz Pérez executive director, Vita-Activa.org, Montclair, New Jersey Developing practical tools to help newsrooms follow best mental health practices and build empathic and inclusive work environments. Michelle Faust Raghavan equity initiative manager, Solutions Journalism Network, Portland, Oregon Exploring ways to develop a true culture of belonging for journalists of color in public media newsrooms, which improves retention and advancement. Vinnee Tong managing editor and director of news, KQED, San Francisco, California Exploring ways to encourage journalism that gives attention to people who have less power and have been harmed by systemic racism and misogyny. Keiona Williamson founder, DRIP Espresso, Sacramento, California Working to meet the information needs of working-class communities of color in ways that empower them to participate in local civic life. Alicia Zuckerman editorial director/executive editor of on-demand audio, WLRN, Miami, Florida Finding ways to expand access to audio journalism and create a better user experience for people with hearing loss. jskfellowships@stanford.edu 650.723.4937 Support our work Make a Gift