Skip to Main Content Brown University Judaic Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Research Hebrew People News Events Hebrew Arthur B. and David B. Jacobson Fund BJS Monograph Series Elga K. Stulman Fund for Judaic Studies Ruth and Joseph Moskow Endowment Theodore & Shirley Libby Fund Tisch Family Fund Past Events Videos Awards & Funding Undergraduate Research Awards funded by Elie Hirschfeld '71 Modern Hebrew Award funded by Elie Hirschfeld ’71 Celia & Carl Michaelson Essay Prize Celia & Carl Michaelson Prize for Excellence in Judaic Studies Graduate Student Research Award Monograph Series Publication List For Authors About Open Access Search Judaic Studies Hebrew Hebrew If you are interested in learning Modern Hebrew in a dynamic, rigorous, and stimulating way, you are welcome to study this language in the Program in Judaic Studies. We offer a full six semesters of instruction in Hebrew language and literature, as well as independent study courses in Hebrew for students beyond the level of the sixth semester. All our courses are conducted in Hebrew. Our Goal Our goal is to develop your Hebrew language proficiency and cultural understanding. We connect your language skills of speaking, reading, writing, as well as listening and viewing comprehension, with literature of the biblical and rabbinic past as well as with contemporary Israeli literature and current events in Israeli society. We incorporate all forms of technology and media, including television, film, and the Internet, to enrich our classes with culture, news, and ongoing developments in Israel. Our advanced classes incorporate diverse topics related to Israeli identity, politics, and culture and how these are manifested in fiction, poetry, news reporting, and music. In our program, you will also acquire knowledge about the Hebrew language: its historical relationship with other Semitic languages, the differences between modern Hebrew and biblical and rabbinic Hebrew, and the differences between written and spoken Hebrew. Language Requirement Hebrew fulfills the language requirements in the Program in Judaic Studies and the Center for Middle East Studies at Brown. Courses Our courses are Elementary Hebrew (HEBR0100, HEBR0200), Intermediate Hebrew (HEBR0300, HEBR0400), Speaking and Writing (HEBR0500), and Issues in Contemporary Israeli Society, Politics, and Culture in Hebrew (HEBR0600). Contact For an assessment of which course is appropriate for you, contact Ruth_Adler_Ben_Yehuda@Brown.edu. Watch what students have to say about Hebrew at Brown https://www.youtube.com/embed/gpVf-xXkOkw Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook YouTube © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Research Hebrew People News Events Hebrew Arthur B. and David B. Jacobson Fund BJS Monograph Series Elga K. Stulman Fund for Judaic Studies Ruth and Joseph Moskow Endowment Theodore & Shirley Libby Fund Tisch Family Fund Past Events Videos Awards & Funding Undergraduate Research Awards funded by Elie Hirschfeld '71 Modern Hebrew Award funded by Elie Hirschfeld ’71 Celia & Carl Michaelson Essay Prize Celia & Carl Michaelson Prize for Excellence in Judaic Studies Graduate Student Research Award Monograph Series Publication List For Authors About Open Access This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Hebrew Open details for Hebrew Bookmark this Page