Skip to Main Content Brown University Judaic Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Research Hebrew People News Events Hebrew Arthur B. and David B. Jacobson Fund BJS Monograph Series Elga K. Stulman Fund for Judaic Studies Ruth and Joseph Moskow Endowment Theodore & Shirley Libby Fund Tisch Family Fund Past Events Videos Awards & Funding Undergraduate Research Awards funded by Elie Hirschfeld '71 Modern Hebrew Award funded by Elie Hirschfeld ’71 Celia & Carl Michaelson Essay Prize Celia & Carl Michaelson Prize for Excellence in Judaic Studies Graduate Student Research Award Monograph Series Publication List For Authors About Open Access Search Judaic Studies University and Humanities Courses in Judaic Studies University and Humanities courses in Judaic Studies. View undergraduate courses for Fall 2022. Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Requirements Honors Thesis Judaic Studies Courses Hebrew & Biblical Hebrew Courses University and Humanities Courses Department Undergraduate Group Religion from Below - HMAN 1975R Professor Michael L. Satlow - W 12pm-2:30pm There has always been a tension between "religion," as it is practiced by ordinary people and communities, and the prescriptions of those who see themselves, or who have more official roles, as religious "elite." What, though, does it mean to speak of this “lived” or “popular” religion? Primarily through the close readings of case studies, this course will explore how scholars approach and theorize actual lived religious practice, and whether through such a cross-disciplinary and transhistorical approach we might be able to think more broadly about the ways in which people approach religion, and the reasons they do so. Narratives of Racism: Lynchings, Miscarriages of Justice, and Internment Camps in America - UNIV 1005 Professor David C. Jacobson - MWF 10am-10:50am In this course, we will study narrative accounts of 20th-century American incidents in which racism led to the persecution of members of minority groups by means of lynchings, miscarriages of justice, or the placement of people in internment camps: the unjustly conducted trial and lynching of the Jewish factory manager Leo Frank accused of murdering a young girl in Georgia; the kidnapping and murder of African American adolescent Emmett Till in Mississippi; and the internment of Japanese descendants during World War II out of fear that they would aid America's enemy. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook YouTube © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Research Hebrew People News Events Hebrew Arthur B. and David B. Jacobson Fund BJS Monograph Series Elga K. Stulman Fund for Judaic Studies Ruth and Joseph Moskow Endowment Theodore & Shirley Libby Fund Tisch Family Fund Past Events Videos Awards & Funding Undergraduate Research Awards funded by Elie Hirschfeld '71 Modern Hebrew Award funded by Elie Hirschfeld ’71 Celia & Carl Michaelson Essay Prize Celia & Carl Michaelson Prize for Excellence in Judaic Studies Graduate Student Research Award Monograph Series Publication List For Authors About Open Access This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search University and Humanities Courses in Judaic Studies Open details for University and Humanities Courses in Judaic Studies Bookmark this Page