Skip to Main Content Brown University Judaic Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Research Hebrew People News Events Hebrew Arthur B. and David B. Jacobson Fund BJS Monograph Series Elga K. Stulman Fund for Judaic Studies Ruth and Joseph Moskow Endowment Theodore & Shirley Libby Fund Tisch Family Fund Past Events Videos Awards & Funding Undergraduate Research Awards funded by Elie Hirschfeld '71 Modern Hebrew Award funded by Elie Hirschfeld ’71 Celia & Carl Michaelson Essay Prize Celia & Carl Michaelson Prize for Excellence in Judaic Studies Graduate Student Research Award Monograph Series Publication List For Authors About Open Access Search Judaic Studies All News Sub Navigation In This Section Alumni News Faculty News Program News News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 64 Results based on your selections. News from Judaic Studies Prof. Olyan elected Beaufort Visiting Fellow March 14, 2022 Read Article Open details for Prof. Olyan elected Beaufort Visiting Fellow News from Judaic Studies Judaic Studies Student Research Awards February 9, 2022 The Program in Judaic Studies is accepting applications for undergraduate and graduate student research awards for spring 2022. Read Article Open details for Judaic Studies Student Research Awards News from Judaic Studies Prof. Teller’s book jointly wins the inaugural Rachel Feldhay Brenner Award in Polish-Jewish Studies January 27, 2022 Read Article Open details for Prof. Teller’s book jointly wins the inaugural Rachel Feldhay Brenner Award in Polish-Jewish Studies News from Judaic Studies Announcing the recipients of the Fall 2021 graduate student research awards November 17, 2021 The Program in Judaic Studies is pleased to announce the recipients of the Fall 2021 graduate student research awards. Read Article Open details for Announcing the recipients of the Fall 2021 graduate student research awards News from Judaic Studies Judaic Studies undergraduate essay prize November 11, 2021 The Program in Judaic Studies is accepting submissions for the Undergraduate Essay Prize. Read Article Open details for Judaic Studies undergraduate essay prize News from Judaic Studies Prof. Teller’s book receives Honorable Mention for this year’s Kulczycki Book Prize in Polish Studies October 12, 2021 Congratulations to Professor Adam Teller whose book, entitled "Rescue the Surviving Souls: The Great Jewish Refugee Crisis of the Seventeenth Century", has received an Honorable Mention for this year’s Kulczycki Book Prize in Polish Studies awarded by the Association for Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies for the best book in any discipline on any aspect of Polish affairs. Read Article Open details for Prof. Teller’s book receives Honorable Mention for this year’s Kulczycki Book Prize in Polish Studies News from Judaic Studies Graduate Student Awards September 21, 2021 Graduate Student Research Grants - fall 2021. Read Article Open details for Graduate Student Awards News from Judaic Studies Adam Teller elected a fellow of the American Academy for Jewish Research May 19, 2021 Professor Adam Teller, Professor of Judaic Studies and History, has been elected a fellow of the American Academy for Jewish Research (AAJR). Read Article Open details for Adam Teller elected a fellow of the American Academy for Jewish Research News from Judaic Studies Festschrift in honor of Prof. Saul Olyan, Samuel Ungerleider Jr. Professor of Judaic Studies and Professor of Religious Studies March 25, 2021 Professor Saul M. Olyan, Samuel Ungerleider Jr. Professor of Judaic Studies and Professor of Religious Studies has been recognized with a Festschrift. Read Article Open details for Festschrift in honor of Prof. Saul Olyan, Samuel Ungerleider Jr. Professor of Judaic Studies and Professor of Religious Studies News from Judaic Studies Prof. Teller’s book is named a finalist for a national Jewish book award in the history category January 27, 2021 Congratulations to Professor Adam Teller whose new book “Rescue the Surviving Souls: The Great Jewish Refugee Crisis of the Seventeenth Century” was just named a finalist for a national Jewish book award in the history category. Read Article Open details for Prof. Teller’s book is named a finalist for a national Jewish book award in the history category Association for Jewish Studies Karen B. Stern awarded Jordan Schnitzer Book Award from AJS December 17, 2020 Karen B. Stern of Brooklyn College, Brown Ph.D. 2006, has won a 2020 Jordan Schnitzer Book Award from the Association for Jewish Studies for her book Writing on the Wall: Graffiti and the Forgotten Jews of Antiquity (Princeton University Press, 2018). Read Article Open details for Karen B. Stern awarded Jordan Schnitzer Book Award from AJS News from Judaic Studies Prof. Teller’s new book launches virtually June 10, 2020 Professor Adam Teller launches (virtually) his new book entitled "Rescue the Surviving Souls: The Great Jewish Refugee Crisis of the Seventeenth Century." Read Article Open details for Prof. Teller’s new book launches virtually News from Judaic Studies Article and lecture on Prof. Rojanski's new book entitled “Yiddish in Israel: A History” May 18, 2020 Tablet magazine writer, Roklh Kafrissen, published an article on April 7, 2020 entitled “Rokhl’s Golden City: How a brawl in Tel Aviv changed the theater scene in New York, and why Israeli soldiers are speaking Yiddish to fight COVID-19.” Read Article Open details for Article and lecture on Prof. Rojanski&#039;s new book entitled “Yiddish in Israel: A History” News from Judaic Studies Saul M. Olyan elected a fellow of the American Academy for Jewish Research May 4, 2020 Professor Saul M. Olyan, Director of the Program in Judaic Studies and Samuel Ungerleider Jr. Professor of Judaic Studies and Professor of Religious Studies, has been elected a fellow of the American Academy for Jewish Research (AAJR). Read Article Open details for Saul M. Olyan elected a fellow of the American Academy for Jewish Research News from Judaic Studies New book from Professor Adam Teller April 29, 2020 Professor Adam Teller, Professor of Judaic Studies and History at Brown University, has published a new book with Princeton University Press. Read Article Open details for New book from Professor Adam Teller News from Judaic Studies BJS launches Open Access Books program April 28, 2020 Brown Judaic Studies (BJS) announces the launch of our Open Access Books program. Read Article Open details for BJS launches Open Access Books program News from Judaic Studies Prof. Teller speaks at Museum of the History of Polish Jews April 7, 2020 Professor Adam Teller presented a lecture, at the Museum of the History of Polish Jews in Warsaw, Poland, entitled "The Reconstruction of Jewish Life after the Chmielnicki uprising 1648" which tackled the question of how Polish-Lithuanian Jewry succeeded in overcoming so quickly the terrible devastation of the mid-seventeenth century uprising. Read Article Open details for Prof. Teller speaks at Museum of the History of Polish Jews Watson Institute Gender in Israeli and Palestinian Film conference March 6, 2020 Read the Watson Institute article about our February 9-10, 2020 conference entitled "Gender in Israeli and Palestinian Film" Read Article Open details for Gender in Israeli and Palestinian Film conference News from Judaic Studies Students discuss Hebrew@Brown February 27, 2020 Excerpts from the fall 2019 CLS Language Panel show students discussing what it means to study Hebrew at Brown University. Read Article Open details for Students discuss Hebrew@Brown News from Judaic Studies Prof. Nahme named as finalist in National Jewish book award January 16, 2020 Read Article Open details for Prof. Nahme named as finalist in National Jewish book award News from Judaic Studies New book from Rachel Rojanski January 9, 2020 Read Article Open details for New book from Rachel Rojanski News from Judaic Studies New book from Professor Lawrence M. Wills November 19, 2019 Read Article Open details for New book from Professor Lawrence M. Wills News from Judaic Studies Benefactor Elie Hirschfeld appointed to government agency November 4, 2019 We are delighted to announce that our generous benefactor Elie Hirschfeld, Brown class of 71, has been appointed to the U.S. Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. Read Article Open details for Benefactor Elie Hirschfeld appointed to government agency News from Judaic Studies New book from Professor Saul M. Olyan September 19, 2019 Professor Saul M. Olyan, Samuel Ungerleider Jr. Professor of Judaic Studies and Professor of Religious Studies, has published a book, with Oxford University Press, entitled “Violent Rituals of the Hebrew Bible." Read Article Open details for New book from Professor Saul M. Olyan News from Judaic Studies Prof. Teller speaks at University of London May 20, 2019 Professor Adam Teller (Brown University) presents a lecture entitled "From Amsterdam to Istanbul: Fundraising and Jewish Refugee Relief in the Seventeenth Century" as part of Birkbeck Arts Week 2019 on May 22, 2019 from 6:30pm - 8:00pm at Birkbeck, University of London, Clore Lecture Theatre, Clore Management Centre, Torrington Square, London WC1E 7JL. Read Article Open details for Prof. Teller speaks at University of London News from Judaic Studies Providence - Jerusalem Exchange Fellowship on Israel / Palestine April 11, 2019 The Providence-Jerusalem Exchange Fellowship Program will provide students from Brown University (Brown) and Hebrew University of Jerusalem (HUJI) with a year-long program of study focused on Israeli-Palestinian relations. Read Article Open details for Providence - Jerusalem Exchange Fellowship on Israel / Palestine News from Judaic Studies Brown Judaic Studies monograph series awarded Humanities Open Book Program grant March 21, 2019 With support from a new grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities, scholars from Brown University’s Judaic Studies program are set to begin digitizing much of the groundbreaking scholarship they have published in-house. Read Article Open details for Brown Judaic Studies monograph series awarded Humanities Open Book Program grant News from Judaic Studies Prof. Nahme awarded fellowship March 20, 2019 The Program in Judaic Studies is pleased to announce that Professor Paul Nahme has been awarded a Harry Starr Fellowship in Judaica from Harvard University to undertake his research project entitled "Jewish Racial Affect in Weimar Germany" Read Article Open details for Prof. Nahme awarded fellowship News from Judaic Studies Prof. Galor awarded grant March 15, 2019 The Program in Judaic Studies is pleased to announce that Professor Katharina Galor has been awarded a three-year grant from the Leo Baeck Foundation, Berlin (funded by the Schwarz-Schütte Foundation), to support research for her new book project: Gender and Temporality in Jewish Memory: A Visual and Material Cultural Analysis. Read Article Open details for Prof. Galor awarded grant News from Judaic Studies New BJS publication entitled “Strength to Strength: Essays in Honor of Shaye J. D. Cohen” (Michael L. Satlolw, editor) December 19, 2018 Essays that engage the scholarship of Shaye J. D. Cohen Read Article Open details for New BJS publication entitled “Strength to Strength: Essays in Honor of Shaye J. D. Cohen” (Michael L. Satlolw, editor) News from Judaic Studies Professor Saul Olyan delivered an invited lecture at the Collège de France in Paris November 15, 2018 On 9 November 2018, Saul Olyan delivered an invited lecture at the Collège de France in Paris entitled "Les droits des animaux existent-ils selon la Bible hébraïque?" Read Article Open details for Professor Saul Olyan delivered an invited lecture at the Collège de France in Paris News from Judaic Studies Prof. Adam Teller moderates the Ungerleider Haggadot Symposium November 6, 2018 Read Article Open details for Prof. Adam Teller moderates the Ungerleider Haggadot Symposium News from Judaic Studies New BJS publication entitled “The Aggada of the Bavli and Its Cultural World” (Geoffrey Herman and Jeffrey Rubenstein, editors) September 24, 2018 Brown Judaic Studies has published a new monograph entitled "The Aggada of the Bavli and Its Cultural World" (Geoffrey Herman and Jeffrey Rubenstein, editors), produced and distributed by the Society of Biblical Literature. Read Article Open details for New BJS publication entitled “The Aggada of the Bavli and Its Cultural World” (Geoffrey Herman and Jeffrey Rubenstein, editors) News from Judaic Studies New book from Professor Michael Satlow September 24, 2018 Professor Michael Satlow, Professor of Judaic Studies and Religious Studies, has published a book, with Routledge, entitled "Judaism and the Economy." Read Article Open details for New book from Professor Michael Satlow News from Judaic Studies Professor Katharina Galor returns! September 7, 2018 Professor Katharina Galor returns to teach Ancient Synagogues, Churches, and Mosques in Palestine, JUDS 1670, CRN17238, M 3pm-5:30pm in Sayles Hall 200. Come check it out. Read Article Open details for Professor Katharina Galor returns! News from Judaic Studies Welcome Professor Jonathan Decter, Hirschfeld Presidential Scholar September 7, 2018 Welcome Professor Jonathan Decter, Hirschfeld Presidential Scholar, fall 2018. He will be teaching Jews in the World of Islam, JUDS 1750, CRN 17044, Th 4pm-6:30pm in Friedman Hall 201. Read Article Open details for Welcome Professor Jonathan Decter, Hirschfeld Presidential Scholar News from Judaic Studies Brown Judaic Studies published new monograph, “Supplementation and the Study of the Hebrew Bible” (Saul M. Olyan and Jacob L. Wright, editors) April 17, 2018 Read Article Open details for Brown Judaic Studies published new monograph, “Supplementation and the Study of the Hebrew Bible” (Saul M. Olyan and Jacob L. Wright, editors) News from Judaic Studies Professor Olyan delivers a lecture at the Collège de France on May 22, 2017 November 10, 2017 Professor Olyan delivers a lecture entitled "Quelques associations culturelles positives de la vieillesse dans la Bible hébraïque" at the Collège de France symposium "Vieillir et être vieux dans le Proche Orient ancien" on May 22, 2017. Read Article Open details for Professor Olyan delivers a lecture at the Collège de France on May 22, 2017 News from Judaic Studies Prof Gluck to receive the Hungarian Studies Association Book Prize November 2, 2017 Mary Gluck, Professor of History and Professor of Judaic Studies, is awarded the 2015-2017 Hungarian Studies Association Book Prize for her book entitled “The Invisible Jewish Budapest”. Read Article Open details for Prof Gluck to receive the Hungarian Studies Association Book Prize News from Judaic Studies Brown Judaic Studies publishes new monograph, “When Texts Are Canonized” (Timothy H. Lim, editor) November 1, 2017 Brown Judaic Studies has published a new monograph entitled "When Texts Are Canonized" (Timothy H. Lim, editor), produced and distributed by the Society of Biblical Literature. Read Article Open details for Brown Judaic Studies publishes new monograph, “When Texts Are Canonized” (Timothy H. Lim, editor) News from Judaic Studies Judaic Studies welcomes Visiting Professor Lawrence Wills, Th.D. July 6, 2017 Judaic Studies is pleased to announce the appointment of Lawrence Wills as Visiting Professor of Religious Studies and Judaic Studies. Read Article Open details for Judaic Studies welcomes Visiting Professor Lawrence Wills, Th.D. News from Judaic Studies Judaic Studies announces 2017-18 Book Group selections June 27, 2017 A message from Professor Michael Satlow about Judaic Studies Book Discussion Group: Read Article Open details for Judaic Studies announces 2017-18 Book Group selections News from Judaic Studies Professor Jacobson offers a course which includes a study tour of Israel/Palestine January 25, 2017 Read Article Open details for Professor Jacobson offers a course which includes a study tour of Israel/Palestine News from Judaic Studies New book by Professor Saul Olyan November 16, 2016 Read Article Open details for New book by Professor Saul Olyan The Brown Daily Herald “Hirschfeld House” Named November 4, 2016 In recognition of a $3.5 million gift made by Elie and Sarah Hirschfeld to support the renovation and ongoing maintenance of Brown University's Judaic Studies Building, the University has renamed the building, at 163 George Street, the "Hirschfeld House." Read Article Open details for “Hirschfeld House” Named News from Judaic Studies New article by Professor Adam Teller October 27, 2016 Read Article Open details for New article by Professor Adam Teller News from Judaic Studies New book by Professor Adam Teller September 15, 2016 Professor Adam Teller, Associate Professor of History and Judaic Studies, has published a book entitled “Money, Power, and influence in Eighteenth-Century Lithuania: The Jews on the Radziwill Estates.” Read Article Open details for New book by Professor Adam Teller News from Judaic Studies Professor Jacobson offers Wintersession 2017 course which includes course and study tour to Israel and Palestine August 11, 2016 Professor David Jacobson is offering a Wintersession course, UNIV 1001 - The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict: Contested Narratives, which will include course study and travel to Israel and Palestine. Read Article Open details for Professor Jacobson offers Wintersession 2017 course which includes course and study tour to Israel and Palestine News from Judaic Studies Professors Adler and Jacobson host National Association of Professors of Hebrew at Brown June 27, 2016 Professors Ruth Adler Ben-Yehuda and David C. Jacobson co-chaired the National Association of Professors of Hebrew at Brown University this June 2016. Read Article Open details for Professors Adler and Jacobson host National Association of Professors of Hebrew at Brown News from Brown Dean of the College elected to the American Academy for Jewish Research April 28, 2016 In becoming an AAJR fellow, Maud Mandel joins nearly 100 of the most distinguished scholars in the field of Judaic studies in North America. Read Article Open details for Dean of the College elected to the American Academy for Jewish Research Previous 1 2 Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook YouTube © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Research Hebrew People News Events Hebrew Arthur B. and David B. Jacobson Fund BJS Monograph Series Elga K. Stulman Fund for Judaic Studies Ruth and Joseph Moskow Endowment Theodore & Shirley Libby Fund Tisch Family Fund Past Events Videos Awards & Funding Undergraduate Research Awards funded by Elie Hirschfeld '71 Modern Hebrew Award funded by Elie Hirschfeld ’71 Celia & Carl Michaelson Essay Prize Celia & Carl Michaelson Prize for Excellence in Judaic Studies Graduate Student Research Award Monograph Series Publication List For Authors About Open Access This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page