Skip to Main Content Brown University Judaic Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Research Hebrew People News Events Hebrew Arthur B. and David B. Jacobson Fund BJS Monograph Series Elga K. Stulman Fund for Judaic Studies Ruth and Joseph Moskow Endowment Theodore & Shirley Libby Fund Tisch Family Fund Past Events Videos Awards & Funding Undergraduate Research Awards funded by Elie Hirschfeld '71 Modern Hebrew Award funded by Elie Hirschfeld ’71 Celia & Carl Michaelson Essay Prize Celia & Carl Michaelson Prize for Excellence in Judaic Studies Graduate Student Research Award Monograph Series Publication List For Authors About Open Access Search Judaic Studies About Sub Navigation In This Section Publication List For Authors About Open Access About Brown Judaic Studies is a peer-reviewed series that publishes high quality, specialized books aimed primarily at a scholarly audience. We publish monographs, collections of essays, and translations of original sources in all fields of Judaic studies. BJS was founded in 1978 by the faculty of the Program in Judaic Studies at Brown University in order to address the dire need for an American venue for the publication of scholarly books in Jewish studies. At that time, with Jewish studies a nascent academic field, few publishers would consider such scholarly titles. Over time that has changed and, fortunately, Judaic studies is no longer a niche market in scholarly publishing. With almost 400 titles published, we continue to publish high quality works that make a scholarly difference. Our publications undergo rigorous scholarly review and are priced aggressively in order to encourage dissemination. Reflecting our history, our administrative structure is unusual. The tenured faculty of the Program in Judaic Studies at Brown University are uncompensated editors of the series. They coordinate the review of manuscripts and, if accepted, the revision process. Copyediting and typesetting is outsourced to a professional company and then the works are distributed and marketed through SBL Press. We are able to to focus on quality works without regard to commercial value, and to keep our prices low, due to our extremely low overhead. We see ourselves as a press by and for scholars. Editors Katharina Galor David C. Jacobson Paul Nahme Saul M. Olyan Rachel Rojanski Michael Satlow Adam Teller Jae Han Review Copies To request an SBL Press review copy, please complete this form. SBL Press Review Copy Request Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook YouTube © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Research Hebrew People News Events Hebrew Arthur B. and David B. Jacobson Fund BJS Monograph Series Elga K. Stulman Fund for Judaic Studies Ruth and Joseph Moskow Endowment Theodore & Shirley Libby Fund Tisch Family Fund Past Events Videos Awards & Funding Undergraduate Research Awards funded by Elie Hirschfeld '71 Modern Hebrew Award funded by Elie Hirschfeld ’71 Celia & Carl Michaelson Essay Prize Celia & Carl Michaelson Prize for Excellence in Judaic Studies Graduate Student Research Award Monograph Series Publication List For Authors About Open Access This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Open details for About Bookmark this Page