Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Justice Lab Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Mission Team Projects Updates Events Publications Donate Square One Emerging Adult Justice Incarceration Probation and Parole Reentry Youth Justice Initiatives Columbia Justice Lab Home Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 explore our projects learn more learn more learn more Previous Next Sign up for our email list. Contact information for press. Research May 17, 2022 The Women’s Center for Justice: A New Vision for Women in NYC Jails With the closing of Rikers Island, New York City has a unique opportunity to revolutionize the treatment of women and gender-expansive people who are currently at the Rose M. Singer Center on Rikers. Tags EventsResearch January 01, 2022 Dædalus special issue on Reimagining Justice: The Challenges of Violence & Punitive Excess Building on understandings of the violence, criminalization, and punitive excess within our current justice system, Bruce Western and Sukyi McMahon give an overview of essays in this issue of Dædalus that discuss eliminating mass incarceration and producing a new kind of community safety that strengthens social bonds and reckons with a history of racial injustice. Tags Research November 30, 2021 Inside the box: Safety, health, and isolation in prison Bruce Western discusses the social costs and benefits of prisons through close examination of the harmful effects of overcrowding, violence, risk of mortality and infectious disease, and the lack of rehabilitation programming. Tags Research More News Policy May 26, 2021 Justice Lab and JLUSA Release NYC Mayoral Race Criminal Justice Questionnaire Results Criminal justice issues are at the forefront in New York City and nationally. The justice policies NYC’s next mayor pursues and prioritizes will determine the future of safety for our city as well as justice for all of our residents. Tags Policy March 16, 2021 Illinois Raise the Age Testimony Written testimony of Lael Chester and Vincent Schiraldi regarding H.B. 111/133, on legislation to gradually raise the upper age of juvenile jurisdiction for misdemeanor cases Tags PolicyEmerging Adult Justice December 16, 2020 Justice Lab Joins Call to Give Correctional Staff and Incarcerated People Equal and Urgent COVID-19 Vaccine Priority The Justice Lab joined top university experts in calling on the CDC and states to prioritize incarcerated people and correctional staff in early-phase distribution of the coronavirus vaccine. Tags Policy More News News February 01, 2022 Emerging Adult Justice Project Submitted a Report Supporting Reforming and Expanding Colorado’s “Youth Offender System” to Include All Emerging Adults NEW YORK, NY – The Columbia Justice Lab’s Emerging Adult Justice Project (EAJP), with the support of the Colorado Department of Corrections, submitted a Report on February 1, 2022 to Colorado’s House and Senate Judiciary Committees making research-based recommendations to transform the state’s Youth Offender System (YOS). The report explains the impact of including young people up to age 25 who commit felony offenses in the YOS and how that expansion should be implemented. Tags NewsEmerging Adult Justice January 31, 2022 Philadelphia District Attorney's Office Announces Launch of Historic Emerging Adult Unit NEW YORK, NY – On January 31, 2022 Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner announced that his office will turn its Emerging Adult Initiative, which began operating in October 2020, into a permanent unit. Specially assigned prosecutors, paralegals, and a Victim Witness Coordinator will work together to review misdemeanor and certain felony cases involving 18-25-year-olds (to the 26th birthday), to determine their eligibility for prosecution tailored to their distinct developmental stage. Tags NewsEmerging Adult Justice June 02, 2021 [Press Statement] Columbia Justice Lab Reacts to $100M Biden Budget Request for Youth Incarceration Alternatives In the budget proposal that the White House released last Friday, President Joe Biden requested $796 million for juvenile justice programs and initiatives for fiscal year 2022, with $100 million to incentivize states to implement community-based alternatives to youth incarceration. Tags NewsYouth Justice Initiatives More News Events May 19, 2022 Pros and Cons of Receiverships as a Catalyst for Institutional Reform On May 19, the Columbia Justice Lab co-sponsored an important virtual forum on Fixing Rikers Island: A Federal Receivership? The federal monitor overseeing Rikers Island recently concluded that city jails are “trapped in a state of persistent dysfunctionality” with “imminent risk of harm to incarcerated individuals and staff.” This has led numerous knowledgeable city leaders to Tags Events May 17, 2022 The Women’s Center for Justice: A New Vision for Women in NYC Jails With the closing of Rikers Island, New York City has a unique opportunity to revolutionize the treatment of women and gender-expansive people who are currently at the Rose M. Singer Center on Rikers. Tags EventsResearch April 22, 2021 A Roadmap to Justice Reform: Key Elements of Specialized Courts, Probation and Corrections for Emerging Adults Building upon a groundswell of voices for change, jurisdictions across the U.S. are seeking new models for the treatment and care of emerging adults (ages 18 - 25) in the criminal justice system. Tags EventsEmerging Adult Justice More News ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">Tweets by CUJusticeLab Main Offices475 Riverside Drive, Suite 316 · New York, NY 10115 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close