Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University K=1 Project Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About News Explore Events People Contact us Support Mission History Letter from Founding Director FAQ Articles Films Interviews Publications Educational materials Podcasts Research K=1 Project Home Image Carousel with 11 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Slide 5 Slide 6 Slide 7 Slide 8 Slide 9 Slide 10 Slide 11 Our new nuclear dashboard with maps Bikini must be cleaned - our article in the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists Read about our recent research in the Marshall Islands French Polynesia, February 2020 Movie about Marshall Islands by two American high school students Why are we called the K=1 Project? Watch lecture about nuclear weapons and nuclear testing in the Marshall Islands Read about US Nuclear Modernization Plans Check out our educational materials! Prof. Emlyn Hughes on France 24 Simulation of nuclear weapons negotiations Previous Next Weapons Nuclear disaster: How prepared are we? Mushroom cloud. Illustration by Jennifer Feng Nuclear Weapons 101: Back to the Basics Illustration by Etienne Cipriani Hiroshima and Nagasaki: The Long Term Health Effects International From “Atoms for Peace” to “JCPOA": Iranian Nuclear Development How North Korea Got a Seat at the Nuclear Table (204) Illustration by Etienne Cipriani France: A Study of French Nuclear Policy after Fukushima Short Films Marshalling Peace Marshalling Peace [Documentary] Amalia Amalia [Animation] Hiroshima Girl Hiroshima Girl [Narrative] Energy Illustration by Etienne Cipriani Radioactive Accidents: The Forgotten Stories Illustration by Etienne Cipriani Fusion Power: An unkept promise or a dream about to come true Illustration by Etienne Cipriani Radiation and the Anti-Nuclear Movement Explore All Articles Students have been writing articles for K=1 since our inception. We cover everything from nuclear energy to the complicated politics around nuclear weapons. All Films From documentary to animation, we sponsor movies made by young people - all to raise awareness about nuclear issues. Happy viewing! more... Tweets by K1Proj Recent News August 06, 2020 Remembering Hiroshima and Nagasaki July 09, 2020 The US Government Plans to Spend Over a Trillion Dollars on Nuclear Weapons April 26, 2020 Chernobyl Anniversary and New Course at Columbia As we reflect on the 34th anniversary of Chernobyl and its relevance to the current public health crisis, Prof. Emlyn Hughes is making plans to teach a new course in Columbia's summer session. The course will be entitled Chernobyl. Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close