K-State Research and Extension search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in KSRE Online Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »K-State Research and Extension »Kansas PRIDE Program Kansas PRIDE Program Home Benefits About Us Communities Sponsors and Sponsorship Partners Staff Week of PRIDE 50 Years of PRIDE Enrollment and Reporting Promotion Education Community Folios News Newsletter Archives Annual Review Funding Outside Funding Resources Youth Engagement Emergency Preparedness Publications Organizations Statistical Information Business Development FAQ Feedback Kansas PRIDE Program 101 Umberger Hall Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-5840 PRIDE@ksu.edu Building Better Communities The Kansas PRIDE Program is a partnership of K-State Research and Extension, the Kansas Department of Commerce, Kansas Masons and Kansas PRIDE, Inc. Kansas PRIDE is dedicated to serving communities across the state to encourage and assist local government and volunteers in making their community a better place to live and work. Through the Kansas PRIDE program, local communities identify what they would like to preserve, create, or improve for their future. Then, working with the resources of K-State Research & Extension and the Kansas Department of Commerce, community volunteers pull together to create their ideal community future. The video below is an example of the some of the work being done by local Kansas PRIDE groups and Masonic Lodges in the state. This video was produced by the Kansas Masonic Foundation. For more information on how local Kansas PRIDE groups and Lodges can work together, contact us at PRIDE@ksu.edu. Kansas PRIDE, Inc. is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization dedicated to supporting volunteer-based community improvement efforts statewide. If you, your company, or organization would like to sponsor the program and directly benefit Kansas communities, visit our Sponsorship page for more details, or click on our PayPal donate button below: Thank you for your support of Kansas communities! Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 12/10/21