Skip to main content Main navigation Scholarly Programs International Fellowship This Year Apply FAQs Propose a Theme Academic Gatherings Past Years Archival Initiatives Collaborative Projects Summer Collaboratory Philanthropy Research Initiative Education For the Community For Students Grad Student Summer School Undergraduate Opportunities Jewish Studies @ Penn For Rabbis and Educators Create Your Own Program Resources Blog Jewish Quarterly Review Books Jewish Culture & Contexts Fellowship Volumes Library @ Katz Learn Online Recorded Programs MOOC Podcast Secondary Main Navigation Events Upcoming Events Past Events News What We Do From the Director Staff Current Fellows All Fellows Governance History Meet the fellows! 2022–23 Fellowship Theme: Jews and Modern Legal Culture The Katz Center is thrilled to announce the cohort for the 2022–23 academic year, engaging the theme of Jews and Modern Legal Culture. Learn More About Us Jewish History, Texts, Cultures, Ideas, and Experiences Katz Center research spans all periods of Jewish history, from distant antiquity through to the present day; it reaches into every part of the globe where Jews have lived, and it is grounded in a wide range of disciplines and approaches. Learn more JQR 112.2 now available. New Issue of the Jewish Quarterly Review The oldest English-language journal in the field of Jewish studies has a new issue, available online and in print. See the Table of Contents on our blog. Learn More In partnership with Penn’s Schoenberg Institute for Manuscript Studies New Virtual Course "In the Margins of a Medieval Jewish Prayer Book: What Can Physical Manuscripts Tell Us about History?" is taught by Elisabeth Hollender, Professor of Jewish History at Goethe University of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. Read More The Katz Center is a global leader in the study of Jewish civilization. Coming Up June 13 - 14, 2022 For the Academic Community The Jewish Home: A Volume Workshop > This two-day in-person workshop brings together Katz Center fellows from the 2019–2020 academic year, which was focused on the theme of The Jewish Home. Learn More June 15 - 17, 2022 For the Academic Community Creative Disruptions: Reimagining American Jewish Studies > This three-day retreat brings together the 2020–21 Katz Center fellows to explore a constellation of questions about the expansion and future of American Jewish studies. Learn More July 31, 2022 - August 4, 2022 For the Academic Community Summer School: Crises, Change, and Creativity in Jewish Experience > Over a week of intensive learning with a cohort of leading scholars from different subfields and disciplines, graduate students will explore the ways Jews, as individuals and as communities, contended with different sorts of crises over the course of history. Learn More See Full Calendar An Interview with Katz Center Fellow Marc Herman "Jews had a legal culture long before they came under the aegis of Islam, even before they were known as Jews. But the spread of Islam brought about many changes to Jewish societies." Read more... International Fellowship Program Rethinking Premodern Jewish Legal Cultures The 2021–22 fellowship program treats law in theory and practice, as both created by and imposed on Jews. Seeing law as constituted by and embedded within wider dynamics, the fellows see law’s impact on various historical, religious, intellectual, artistic, and political moments, for a wide variety of actors: Jews and non-Jews, men and women, the empowered and the marginal. Fellowship Info Meet the Fellows COVID Guidelines Blog June 1, 2022 New Books from Katz Center Scholars by Becky Friedman A collection of recently published texts authored by Katz Center fellows. May 26, 2022 New Issue of the Jewish Quarterly Review: Spring 2022 by The Jewish Quarterly Review The TOC in Brief view all blog posts © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Scholarly Programs Education Resources Events News What We Do Become A Fellow Support Contact Us Contact Us 420 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19106 (215) 746-1290sas-katzcenter@sas.upenn.edu Search Search © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania