Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Flickr USC Glorya Kaufman School of Dance University of Southern California About Our Visionary Founder Dean’s Message Board of Councilors Who We Are Location Los Angeles Programs Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance Dance Minors Classes for all USC Students Musical Theatre Partnership Apply How to Apply Admission Events Financial Aid & Scholarships Frequently Asked Questions Request Information Faculty Artists in Residence Guest Artists Students Student Blog Student Profiles Alumni Alumni Profiles Collaborations Partnerships Kaufman Connections New Movement Residency News and Events Support Annual Giving Founder’s Circle Naming Opportunities USC Kaufman Donors Give Now Subscribe Search The New Movement Announcements kaufman Student Blog: Being Immersed in the Berlin Arts Scene Hayden Rivas (BFA ’24) is currently in Berlin, Germany on a Maymester with the USC Glorya Kaufman School of Dance. This three-week long course is led by USC Kaufman professors Thomas McManus and Bruce McCormick. During the trip, BFA students will have the opportunity to attend dance classes, watch opera and avant-garde performance viewings, and take architecture tours, among other cultural experiences. kaufman Recap of the USC Kaufman Debut at The Wallis To close the spring semester, USC Glorya Kaufman School of Dance BFA students performed in a culminating event at the Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts in Beverly Hills, Calif. The show featured both highly-renowned and new choreography from artists including USC Kaufman lecturer Achinta S. McDaniel, guest artists Ohad Naharin and Justin Peck, and Artists in Residence Tessandra Chavez, Toyin Sogunro and Doug Varone. kaufman USC Kaufman hosts satellite ceremony for Class of 2022 On Friday, May 13, the USC Glorya Kaufman School of Dance hosted a satellite commencement ceremony at Founders Park to celebrate the Class of 2022. In addition to opening remarks from Dean Robert Cutietta, USC President Carol L. Folt and visionary founder Glorya Kaufman shared a few words with the graduating class. USC Glorya Kaufman School of Dance Glorya Kaufman International Dance Center 849 West 34th Street Los Angeles, CA 90089-3521 213-740-9327 uscdance@usc.edu Sign up for our newsletter Subscribe Prospective student? click here Give now! student portal · faculty portal · photo credits · notice of non-descrimination · privacy notice