Jump to navigation About Our House House History Traditions & Spotlight Programs Garden Club Alumni House Staff Academic Resources Academic Programs John Parker Fellowship Penn Authors Forum Collection Policies & Information Room Reservations Laundry Room Policy Quiet Hours Pantry Use Policy Poster and Flyering Policies Collection/Donation Box Policy Residential Handbook Program Communities Biosphere Huntsman Program Perspectives in Humanities Science & Technology Wing Women in Computer Science Upperclass Programs Services & Operations House Office Item Checkout Library Book Rentals Computer Lab Information Center Mirage Rooftop Lounge Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Upperclass Room Selection Room Rates & Policies Room Layouts FAQs Jobs & Involvement House Council Language Leaders In-House Clubs Program Communities House Managers Calendar PennKey Login You are here Front Page About The Photo The Kings Court English House Garden Club was established in 1998 to build the level of greenery in the courtyard between Kings Court and English House. Today the courtyard is a beautiful, budding garden equipped with tables and chairs. It is a favorite place among residents for studying, socializing, and enjoying nature. About The Photo Kings Court English College House is made up of two separate buildings that act as one house with common activities, facilities, and atmosphere. Residents enjoy various amenities including an in-house dining hall, a convenience store, and a rooftop lounge boasting remarkable city views. About The Photo With their wide bay windows and spacious, airy interiors, Kings Court English House’s rooms carry their reputation across campus. Students acclaim the sizes of the rooms as well as the tight-knit communities that form between them. About The Photo KCECH’s annual robotics fair, hosted by Science and Technology Wing, draws guest speakers from robotics groups across campus and involves games such as, pictured here, a Hebocon competition. About The Photo The courtyard between English House and Kings Court is home to the College House’s award-winning garden, one of the Penn community’s most beautiful and historic green spaces. The garden was founded by the KCECH Garden Club and is carefully tended by students and staff. Among the plants are vibrant murals designed by Isaiah Zagar, world-renowned artist and founder of South Philadelphia’s famous “Magic Gardens.” About The Photo During annual KCECH day, the floors of Kings Court and English House compete against each other in various physical, strategic, and knowledge-based games. About The Photo KCECH houses five remarkable living-and-learning residential programs: Science and Technology Wing, Perspectives in the Humanities, Biosphere, the Huntsman Program, and Women in Computer Science. Information for Incoming First-Year Students Interested in joining the KCECH community next year? We’d be delighted to be your new home away from home! Please check out our FRESHMAN FAQ PAGE, full of useful links about the House, including floor plans, info on our program communities, suggestions about what to bring and what to discuss with your future roommates, and a rundown of some of our traditional events. Be sure to check the links, and contact us any questions! Hope to see you in August!! Join KCECH '22-'23 Group Chat (GroupMe): https://groupme.com/join_group/86881958/kaaLzzP4 About Our House House History Traditions & Spotlight Programs Garden Club Alumni House Staff Academic Resources Academic Programs John Parker Fellowship Penn Authors Forum Collection Policies & Information Room Reservations Laundry Room Policy Quiet Hours Pantry Use Policy Poster and Flyering Policies Collection/Donation Box Policy Residential Handbook Program Communities Biosphere Huntsman Program Perspectives in Humanities Science & Technology Wing Women in Computer Science Upperclass Programs Services & Operations House Office Item Checkout Library Book Rentals Computer Lab Information Center Mirage Rooftop Lounge Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Upperclass Room Selection Room Rates & Policies Room Layouts FAQs Jobs & Involvement House Council Language Leaders In-House Clubs Program Communities House Managers Calendar PennKey Login PennKey Login Search Kings Court English College House Office Phone (215) 573-3574 In case of an emergency, call Penn Police at (215) 573-3333 or dial 511 from a campus telephone. Office Email Contact kce@collegehouses.upenn.edu Office Hours Monday-Friday, 10AM-6PM and 8PM-10PM Saturday-Sunday, 12PM-4PM House Address 3465 Sansom Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 View on Map Copyright ©2016 Office of College Houses & Academic Services | Privacy | Disclaimer | Send Feedback | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help