Skip to main content Keller Center at Princeton University Utility navigation People Stories Events Contact Main navigation What We Do Entrepreneurship Design & Design Thinking Innovative Education Societal Impact Courses Certificates Program in Technology & Society Program in Entrepreneurship Programs & Initiatives eLab Accelerator & Incubator Faith & Work Initiative Funding for Student Projects and Ventures Humanities in Entrepreneurship Innovation Forum Program in Institutional and Historical Racism Princeton Startup Immersion Program (PSIP) Tiger Challenge Opportunities Keyword Program in Institutional and Historical Racism A program for faculty, postdocs, and staff in the School of Engineering focused on the intersection of race and racism with engineering, technology, and innovation. Gain a foundational understanding of structural racism that will make you a better problem solver in any field or discipline. Tertiary navigation (do not reposition) Why are certain neighborhoods 5 to 20 degrees hotter than other neighborhoods in the same city? What are the considerations for public health officials when trying to vaccinate Americans against COVID-19? Why is traffic so bad in Atlanta? Why does life expectancy vary by 20 to 30 years within the same city based on the neighborhood in which a person lives? The answers to the above questions are rooted in an understanding of race and racism. "Trying to tackle any innovation or societal issue without understanding the impact of historical and structural racism is like trying to fathom the universe without knowing about carbon." If you're a faculty member, postdoc, researcher, or staff in the School of Engineering and want to know why, this program is for you. Participants will: Create better solutions by learning to assess and account for the ways structural racism impacts any field when creating an innovation or attempting to address a societal problem Gain a framework for revealing basic design flaws in their innovations Understand how racism hurts everyone, not just people of color Develop solutions that reduce rather than exacerbate racial inequity Expand their understanding of racism to be a structural issue beyond individual acts or biases Description A cohort-based program focused on the intersection of race and racism with engineering, technology, and innovation that runs from December 2021 to May 2022. It consists of three elements: Education Goal: Build common language and understanding of structural racism to work for change December 2021 to January 2022 Workshops by the Racial Equity Institute (REI) conducted over Zoom Groundwater (December 8, 2021 from 9 am to noon) - uses data to show racism is structural in nature Phase 1 (December 9 and 10, 2021 from 9 am to 5 pm each day) - shows how institutions, systems, and culture produce unjust and inequitable outcomes; helps participants recognize historical and root causes of disparities Note: The learnings from the above workshops are foundational to the program. If a participant is unable to attend when these workshops are brought to Princeton, they may alternatively pay to attend these workshops when offered to the public within the relevant time frame. Workshop by Janet Vertesi, Associate Professor of Sociology, Princeton University Values in Technology and Design (1-2 hours) - shows how societal values are often baked into technology Inclusive and Equitable Teaching workshops and resources by McGraw Center Community Goal: Build a supportive peer group to continuously interact around these issues January 2022 to May 2022 Guided 1-hour conversations on a reading, podcast, or video Examples: Technology and Race with Ruha Benjamin, TED Talk: Why we must confront the painful parts of US history Occur every month Program participants must attend at least 2 sessions Support Towards Action Goal: Participants identify and begin to implement structural solutions in their workplaces and classrooms; share best practices January 2022 to May 2022 Intake and project scoping meeting with experts who can coach and/or advise participants Followup progress meeting with expert(s) Private, 1-on-1 office hours with expert(s) (as needed) Participants will work individually or in small groups to develop structural solutions Who can participate? Faculty, postdocs, and staff in Princeton's School of Engineering and Applied Science (SEAS). Participants must commit to fulfilling the requirements of the six month long program with the goal of identifying and implementing at least one structural solution in their workplace or classroom. Each cohort will consist of up to 30-35 participants. Costs Free for eligible participants. How to apply The application period for 2021-2022 has now closed. The application period for the 2022-2023 cohort will open in summer 2022. That program will run from September 2022 to May 2023. Be notified when the 2022-2023 application period opens. Questions? Email us. Contacts Cornelia Huellstrunk Executive Director Greg Duncan Digital Media and Communications Manager Princeton University's hub for entrepreneurship, design and design thinking, social impact, and innovative engineering education. Our Mission Main offices Engineering Quad, Room ACE23 / Princeton University / Princeton, NJ 08544 Princeton Entrepreneurial Hub 34 Chambers Street / Princeton, NJ 08544 kellercenter@princeton.edu Subscribe to our newsletter Privacy Notice | Accessibility Social Media Facebook Twitter Instragram YouTube