Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box OSU KidSpirit Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home About Programs Health & Safety ACES Day Archery Cooking Academy Recipes Gymnastics Summer Day Camp Wellness Camps & Workshops Register FAQs General FAQ Summer Camp FAQ Scholarships Donate Scholarships/ Geoff Tomlinson Endowment Fund Wish List Why People Give Contact Email Us Parking Our Staff Join Our Team Positions Ask the Staff In the News Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home About Programs Health & Safety ACES Day Archery Cooking Academy Recipes Gymnastics Summer Day Camp Wellness Camps & Workshops Register FAQs General FAQ Summer Camp FAQ Scholarships Donate Contact Email Us Parking Our Staff Join Our Team Positions Ask the Staff In the News All Program Schedule Health & Safety FAQ Extension Services COVID-19 information KidSpirit Spring Programs Our Spring programs are now open for registration! Individual program information including pricing and schedules can be found for Spring Archery, Spring Gymnastics, Cooking Academy, and ACES no-school days. At KidSpirit we are always working to find creative ways to adapt our programming and stay connected and safe. Due to mixed-age classes we continue to practice caution, including maintaining some spaces where masks are still required. Read more about our spring COVID measures at our Health & Safety page. Lastly, we encourage each of you to continue following good personal hygiene practices and current guidance from public authorities as you make decisions about travel, social gatherings, and other matters in your personal life. If you or your student are sick, please stay home from class, and call to let us know. We all play a role in contributing to a safer Oregon. The actions we take, individually and together, are critical at this time. If you have any questions or need help with registration, feel free to call or email us. KidSpirit Summer Programs Our summer programs, including Summer Day Camp, are now open for registration! For program information, pricing and schedules, and to register, see our Summer Day Camp page. For updates on health and safety measures visit our Health & Safety page. For other FAQs, visit our Summer FAQ page. ACES Day Archery Cooking Academy Gymnastics Summer Youtube Playlist Gymnastics at Home with KidSpirit Check out the gymnastics videos for all levels from our homes to yours! Come roll, tuck, and leap with us each week on our Gymnastics at Home with KidSpirit YouTube channel! Be sure to subscribe to the KidSpirit YouTube channel to get the latest gymnastics classes! We are so excited to continue engaging with your gymnast online this term! al2a0359.jpg Check Out the News about Kidspirit on the OSU webpage! On July 17th, an article about Kidspirit was posted to the OSU webpage "Life at OSU". Want your kid to join and have fun doing many different activities? Click Here! Interested in joining our wonderful KidSpirit team? Then Click Here! patricia-prudente-qesmllxamws-unsplash.jpg We Build Resiliency to Unlock the Hero Inside! Check out the article, "We Build Resiliency to Unlock the Hero Inside," in the magazine Synergies from College of Public Health and Human Sciences about the Kidspirit program and how we build resiliency and teach campers how to get right tools to build for success. Click here for the full article. Contact Info OSU KidSpirit 2450 SW Jefferson Way 125 Langton Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 541.737.KIDS (5437) Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Twitter KidSpirit Thanks Our Sponsors