Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Kinesiology Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Master’s in Athletic Training Home> Graduate Students> Graduate Programs> Master’s in Athletic Training Master’s in Athletic Training Athletic trainers are health care professionals who collaborate with physicians. The services provided by athletic trainers comprise prevention, emergency care, clinical diagnosis, therapeutic intervention, and rehabilitation of injuries and medical conditions. Athletic trainers work under the direction of physicians as prescribed by state licensure statutes. Iowa State University’s athletic training program has transitioned to a professional master’s degree program. The program will offer two routes for admission: The first route would be for a student completing the third year of the 3+2 program. Incoming freshman or sophomore/junior transfers will enter the pre-athletic training program with an undergraduate curriculum in the Department of Kinesiology and must later apply for graduate admission during their junior year and be accepted into the program. The program is designed so you can earn both a bachelor’s and master’s degree in five years and be academically and clinically prepared to pass the Board of Certification examination upon completion of the program to seek employment in a variety of settings. The second route would be for a student with a completed B.A. or B.S. degree from an accredited institution and completion of prerequisite course work and other admission requirements. Pre-Athletic Training Program The pre-athletic training program prepares undergraduate students with foundational knowledge and prerequisite courses for application to the Master’s of Athletic Training program as well as university and departmental requirements needed for an undergraduate degree. Prerequisite classes are in biology, chemistry, physics, psychology, anatomy, and physiology. Students must also gain knowledge in statistics, biomechanics, exercise physiology, and nutrition, and at the graduate level in research design, epidemiology, pathomechanics, public health, and health care delivery systems. State of the art laboratories in sports medicine enhance the learning environment for athletic training students. Program faculty and clinical preceptors are experienced clinicians and engaging teachers. Students will get frequent interaction with team physicians, chiropractors, orthopedic surgeons, physical therapists, and other health care providers with an interprofessional focus in the coursework and clinical experiences. Students will also get the opportunity to participate in surgical and emergency room observation, clinical experiences with varied client and patient populations including pediatric, adult, elderly, and special populations, as well as competitive collegiate and high school athletes and those who are physically active in non-sport activities. Athletic training students will have opportunities to engage with patients in real-time or with simulation methods in the areas of prevention and wellness, urgent and emergent care, primary care, orthopedics, rehabilitation, behavioral health, pediatrics, and performance enhancement. Curriculum Download Athletic Training Curriculum Our Athletic Trainers… Volunteer yearly at the Iowa Special Olympics, Drake Relays, and the Iowa High School state wrestling tournament. Have opportunities to obtain numerous professional sports internships. Work in high schools, colleges, and universities, the military, performing arts, physical therapy clinics, and industry settings. CAATE Accreditation Status Iowa State University is currently accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE), 6850 Austin Center Blvd., Suite 100, Austin, TX 78731-3101. Iowa State University is proud of its long tradition of providing excellent athletic training services, academic coursework, and clinical experiences to its students. The athletic training program obtained initial accreditation from the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) in April of 2001. The program received continuing CAATE accreditation in 2006, 2012, and recently underwent a comprehensive review in 2021 and was granted continuing CAATE reaccreditation until our next comprehensive review in 2031-2032. Ready to Get Moving? Apply Now Visit Kinesiology Need More Information? Mary Meier 223 Forker 534 Wallace Rd Ames, IA 50011-4008 515-294-3587 mary@iastate.edu Graduate Programs Master’s in Athletic Training MATR Mission, Goals and Objectives Admissions Requirements Application Curriculum Information Clinical Education Clinical Education Experiences Sequence Clinical Education Expectations Technical Standards ATrack Tuition and Additional Costs Faculty and Clinical Preceptors Program Outcomes Facilities Program Handbook Kinesiology Programs Master of Science Program Requirements Doctor of Philosophy Program Requirements Physical Education Application Process Handbook Student Spotlight: Tanner Bos "People in the NFL know about Iowa State. They know we have one of the top athletic training programs.” View Close Video Player Facebook Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Kinesiology Office 235 Forker Building 534 Wallace Road Ames, IA 50011-4008 515-294-8009 kinesiology@iastate.edu Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility