Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Kinesiology Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Find Your major Physical Education Teacher Education The physical education teacher education option prepares students who are interested in the following (when appropriate coursework is completed): Coaching Coaching Authorization Endorsement Health endorsement Students who are interested in preparation for coaching or health endorsement areas can do so by completing appropriate coursework. Visit with an academic adviser if you are interested in additional endorsements. Related degrees: Physical education graduate degrees Program components The physical education teacher education program incorporates: Kinesiology department curriculum, teaching age-appropriate educational movement and fitness activities along with a multitude of teaching strategies. Teacher education curriculum from the College of Human Sciences, integrating courses in teaching methodology with professional skills, such as the ability to meet the needs of diverse learners. Licensure, as recommended by Iowa State University to the Iowa Board of Educational Examiners. Coursework Coursework includes: Motor learning and control Bio-mechanical aspects of human movement Physiology of exercise Sport psychology Methods of teaching physical education and dance Adapted physical education Physical education curriculum design and program organization Multicultural awareness and non-sexism in the classroom Professional activity/skills classes including team sports, individual sports, dance, and more PELH 4-Year Plan PEL 4-Year Plan School of Education admission and licensure The ISU School of Education (SOE) Educator Preparation Program monitors the progress of all teacher education students and coordinates the licensure process. Students must apply to the School of Education after they have begun their physical education teacher education coursework. School of Education process The School of Education Teacher Services guides students through three main steps in their teacher education: Admission to the Educator Preparation program. Students will not be able to progress to student teaching or licensure without first applying and being accepted. More » Student teaching. Teacher Services works with coordinators and students to arrange practicum and student teaching placements in K-12 settings. More » Licensure. Students should submit the Iowa Application for Licensure at the beginning of the student teaching semester when graduating that semester. The forms are processed in the Teacher Services office and then forwarded to the state. More » Admission requirements The first step toward teacher licensure is to apply and meet the criteria listed for Educator Preparation admission. Admission is not competitive. Students complete courses in the first stage of their education before applying to the program. When to apply: Students must be admitted into the program to be able to register for certain courses, to participate in field experiences/practicums and to student teach. Admission to the Educator Preparation Program is on a rolling basis (anytime throughout the year, including the summer). It may take up to four weeks for processing the applications. The ideal time to apply to the program is at the end of freshman year. Requirements: The School of Education has a list of requirements to meet before applying for admission. The Department of Kinesiology has additional requirements: Completion of KIN 280 or 281 approved 10 hours of pre-student teaching field experience. Completion of two or more of the following PETE fundamentals courses; KIN 231, 232, 236, or DANCE 211. Demonstrate character and desire to be a teacher – faculty will complete an evaluation form. Student teaching Student teaching is required for all students who wish to prepare as teachers. This internship experience, in which the student teaches in real physical education settings under the guidance of a licensed teacher, ranges from 12 to 16 weeks in length with opportunities in both smaller and larger school systems, rural, urban, and overseas settings. Ready to Get Moving? Apply Now Visit Kinesiology Need More Information? Heather Robinson 0205 Forker Building 534 Wallace Road Ames, IA 50011-4008 515-294-3427 hrobins@iastate.edu Close Video Player Facebook Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Kinesiology Office 235 Forker Building 534 Wallace Road Ames, IA 50011-4008 515-294-8009 kinesiology@iastate.edu Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility