Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Internships Contact Us Search Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Exercise Physiology - B.S. Sport Administration - B.S.E.d. Athletic Training - B.S. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Undergraduate Programs Bachelors Sport Administration - B.S.Ed. AAA Sport Administration - B.S.Ed. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The Sport Administration major at the University of Miami is an undergraduate education program designed to prepare students for careers in the sport industry. The program is committed to the professional development of students so that competencies and skills relevant to the Sport Industry can be acquired over time. Specific competencies in organization, ethics, marketing, leadership and legal issues are emphasized. Field experience and internships are an essential component of the major. The KIN department is actively engaged in placing students in visible sports settings and appropriate sport environments so that students acquire relevant competencies and gain pragmatic hands-on experiences that are necessary for success in today’s sport industry. Required Coursework Click here for Curriculum Requirements Suggested Plan of Study Click here for Suggested Plan of Study Sport Administration is a 45-credit major leading to a Bachelor of Science in Education. The major requires a 12-15 credit minor in any field. An exciting component of the program is student participation in field placements and internships in the collegiate, professional, recreational, and fitness industries. Through these pragmatic, hands-on experiences, students build the real-life skills necessary for success in the profession. Program Contact Undergraduate Advisor: Genene Applewhite Senior Advisor Undergraduate Academic Services Room: Merrick Building 312-CC gpa6@miami.edu 305-284-1728 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices