Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Internships Contact Us Search Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Applied Physiology M.S.Ed. Athletic Training M.S.AT. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Masters Applied Physiology M.S.Ed. AAA Applied Physiology M.S.Ed. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The Applied Physiology masters program is specifically designed to produce highly qualified practitioners for successful careers in sports and fitness. This uniquely designed program allows students to create their own path to reach their intended career goals. The program emphasizes practice-based instruction promoting proficiency in the areas of nutrition, human performance, and administration and operations of facilities. Student can take classes based on their intended career path including courses in functional assessment and corrective exercises, advanced strength training, Olympic weightlifting, sports conditioning and speed training, as well as coursework in sports nutrition and clinical exercise testing and programming. For those pursuing careers emphasizing competencies in the development of sports performance, much of the practical course work is performed in the University of Miami’s athletic facilities and interested students will have the opportunity to work directly with our NCAA Division I athletes and coaches. Those looking to become exercise physiologists will have the opportunity to take classes and do research in one of the clinical labs. The University of Miami Graduate program is officially recognized as an approved graduate strength and conditioning program by the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA). The “ERP” logo is a trademark of the National Strength and Conditioning Association in the United States and/or other countries. ERP Graduate Strength and Conditioning Program. Strength and Conditioning This path emphasizes practice-based instruction promoting proficiency in cutting edge programming and implementation; including practical requirements in functional and corrective exercises, advanced strength training, Olympic weight lifting, speed, agility and quickness training, as well as training for competitive endurance sports. Coursework is performed in the University of Miami’s athletic facilities and qualified students will have the opportunity to work directly with our NCAA Division I athletes and coaches. Clinical Nutrition for Performance This path is rooted in a scientific background in the applied sciences, which integrates the nutritional components of wellness programing and key elements of nutrition for optimal performance. The curriculum represents the biological synergy between nutrition and exercise physiology so that students can take leadership roles in clinical-based wellness programs, exercise physiological and nutritional research, as well as tailoring the optimal, evidence-based nutritional practices for coaches and athletes. Entrepreneurship and Fitness Administration This path is designed for individuals pursuing careers in Sports/Fitness administration or those looking to open their own business. Courses provide guidance to higher competency in business operations for supervisory positions. Common jobs include facility owner/operators, program or wellness director, and corporate paths in upper management such as a regional or national director of personal training. Clinical Exercise Physiologist This path prepares students for careers in cardiopulmonary rehabilitation, community or corporate wellness, and teaching. Additionally, it provides students who are pursuing careers in medicine, physical/occupational therapy, physician’s assistant studies, or higher education with a unique and valuable foundation in exercise science. Students have numerous applied physiological research opportunities in the program’s well-equipped laboratories of clinical and applied physiology, neuromuscular research and active aging, and sports medicine and motion analysis. Required Coursework One or Two-year Masters Accelerated Masters Required Coursework 1-year Program (30 credits) can be completed in an academic year. Fall/Spring or Fall/Spring/Summer 2-year Program (30 credits) recommended for careers in Strength and Conditioning as it provides for more intern experience Only available to University of Miami Undergraduate Athletic Training and Kinesiology students 2-semesters (24 credits) Curriculum Requirements Click here for Curriculum Requirements Suggested Plan of Study Click here for Suggested Plan of Study Program Contact Program Director Brian Biagioli Program Director, Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Room: Max Orovitz Building 230 b.biagioli@miami.edu 305-284-6672 For Application Process Questions, contact: Graduate Studies Office soegradadmissions@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices