Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Internships Contact Us Search Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Exercise Physiology Ph.D. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Doctoral Exercise Physiology Ph.D. AAA Exercise Physiology Ph.D. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The doctoral program is firmly based in research and prepares students for academic careers in exercise physiology. Graduate students in this program have numerous applied physiological research opportunities in the program’s well-equipped laboratories of clinical and applied physiology, neuromuscular research and active aging, and sports medicine and motion analysis. Additionally, there are numerous collaborative research opportunities bolstered by the department’s strong relationships with the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, College of Arts and Sciences, Health South Doctors’ Hospital, and the Varsity Athletics Department. The program is best known for its work in women’s health, obesity, pediatric physiology, aging, muscle, biomechanics, cardiovascular physiology, exercise biochemistry, and human metabolism. The Ph.D. in Exercise Physiology requires the completion of up 72 credit hours, depending on the student’s academic background, and takes approximately four to five years to complete. Admission Requirements M.A. or M.S. in exercise physiology or a related field. Pre-requisite courses including one year of chemistry with laboratory, and one course each in human biology, human physiology, and exercise physiology. Admission preference will be given to those that have completed courses in organic chemistry and biochemistry. Minimum 3.0 undergraduate and graduate GPA and a minimum 300 GRE score (verbal + quantitative) and 4.0 Analytical Writing Assessment score. Curriculum Requirements Click here for Curriculum Requirements Suggested Plan of Study Click here for Suggested Plan of Study Program Contact Program Director Kevin Allen Jacobs Associate Professor Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Room: Merrick Building 317-C k.jacobs@miami.edu 305-284-5873 For Application Process Questions, contact: Graduate Studies Office soegradadmissions@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices