Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Internships Contact Us Search Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply WELCOME Students in the Athletic Training program receive an outstanding clinical and academic background while having wonderful opportunities to work closely with our Division 1 Varsity Athletics program in the emergency care, treatment, and rehabilitation of athletic injuries. Students in the exercise physiology program receive a sound scientific education with opportunities for applied physiological research and hands-on clinical experiences. The sport administration program prepares students for administrative careers in both amateur and professional sport industries. Located in one of the country’s leading sports regions, the University of Miami is uniquely qualified to provide students at the University of Miami a dynamic educational experience. Warren Whisenant, Ph.D. In Their Own Words Department Chair's Perspective Warren A. Whisenant joined the faculty at the University of Miami in 2005 and currently serves as Chair of the Department of Exercise and Sport Sciences. Prior to his move to Miami, he was a faculty member and Sport Administration program coordinator at the University of Houston for five years. Dr. Whisenant shares his thoughts on the innovative curriculam of his department including online gaming and e-sports. FEATURED PROJECTS Our department has several research projects that our faculty and staff have developed. Below are just a few examples that we would like to highlight. Trees A joint collaboration between the Departments of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences, and Teaching and Learning Learn more Concussions in Sports Dr. Tywan Martin and Dr. Warren Whisenant from the Sport Administration Programs. Learn more Guardrails Guardrails is a service based research project based out of the University of Miami. Learn more Yoga, Power, and Movement Analyses for Parkinson’s Disease At the Max Orovitz Laboratories, Drs. Joseph Signorile and Moataz Eltoukhy and their graduate students Learn more KIN NEWS University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices