Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Internships Contact Us Search Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Athletic Training M.S.AT. Sport Administration - M.S.Ed. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Masters Sport Administration - M.S.Ed. AAA Sport Administration - M.S.Ed. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Option to take classes on campus or online The sport industry has been expanding rapidly, both in spectators and participants. As the industry grows, the need for administrators with specialized training becomes more complex and important. Sport Administration is an attractive field for young professionals. A degree in Sport Administration is widely recognized by industry professionals and gives graduates an important advantage when seeking employment. The University of Miami program in Sport Administration prepares individuals for a career in this field according to their personal and professional goals. On Campus Program The curriculum is designed to allow the completion of degree requirements in a 12- or 18-month period. The Sport Administration degree requires the successful completion of 30 credit hours. All students complete the Sport Administration core courses which accounts for 27 credit hours. Students can complete the remaining 3 credit hours through sport industry internships and/or elective courses. A thesis option is also available to students and information about the curriculum required for this academic track can be obtained from a faculty advisor. Sport Industry Program The University of Miami has developed the Sport Industry Program (SIP) to recruit high quality graduate students to the Sport Administration Graduate Program and provide these students with a unique academic experience. A limited number of these positions are available. Students interested in participating in the SIP must be accepted and verify their intent to enroll in the Graduate Program by May 1st and contact their advisor to request consideration. Benefits to Students Tuition assistance ($10,000) Placement in a 12 month internship – increased opportunity for professional development and mentoring Completion of the graduate degree in 12 months $1000 monthly stipend Online Program In addition to the on-campus Master’s in Sport Administration program, the School of Education and Human Development offers a Master’s in Sport Administration delivered 100% online. This program, taught by the same world-class faculty who teach in the on-campus program, enables you to earn the Master’s in Sport Administration no matter where you live and work. To be a successful sport business professional you need a well rounded set of skills, whether you work in the front office, as an agent or an performance analyst. The material taught in our program is constantly changing to stay relevant, topical, and current. Also, while many sport management programs require 36 credits or more, UOnline’s master’s of sport administration requires 30 credit hours and can be completed in 20 months. Become a well-rounded sport management leader with courses that cover: Marketing Administration Law Event Management Sport Communications Sport Analytics Ethical Decision Making Risk/Crisis Management Athletics Administration for Education Leadership Required Coursework Curriculum Requirements Click here for Curriculum Requirements Suggested Plan of Study Click here for Suggested Plan of Study Program Contact Program Director Windy Dees Associate Professor Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Room: Merrick Building 317-3 wdees@miami.edu 305-284-8345 For Application Process Questions, contact: Graduate Studies Office soegradadmissions@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices