Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Kinesiology Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Exercise Clinic Home> Outreach> Outreach Programs> Exercise Clinic Don’t be a Cynic. Get with the Clinic. The Exercise Clinic at ISU, in existence since 1974, is an on-campus adult fitness program sponsored by the department operating under the direction of faculty member, Amanda Anderson, Ph.D. Purpose The primary objective of The Exercise Clinic at ISU is to enable participants in having a program of lifelong physical activity that will reduce their risk for chronic diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and obesity. We achieve this objective by: Providing safe and effective exercise programs specific to each participant Creating an environment conducive to participants enjoying physical activity Administering physiological tests to identify fitness levels and areas needing improvement Facilities Our facility is located in Room 194 of the Forker Building. This 8700 ft², air-conditioned facility is equipped with an extensive array of cardiovascular and resistive exercise equipment. We have over 25 cardiovascular stations, including treadmills, elliptical machines, rowers, recumbent cycles and upright cycle ergometers. There are 13 Keiser resistive exercise stations, dumbbells ranging from 2 to 100 pounds, flat and incline benches, a TRX station, and other related exercise equipment such as resistive bands and medicine balls. This equipment was chosen for its ease of use, suitability for a diverse group of people, user friendliness and safety. Supervision Each class is supervised by an exercise leader. This leader is a graduate student in the Kinesiology Department. She or he is assisted by several senior undergraduate students with a similar major who are completing an internship required for their degree. Participants The program is open to the Iowa State community and the general public. It is not available to undergraduate students. To be considered for the program, the individual completes an application or registration form. If a new participant has significant health or medical concerns, then written permission by their personal physician is also needed. New participants are enrolled in a class of their choosing, which enables them to exercise in a structured environment. All new participants also undergo a fitness assessment. The assessment quantifies the participant’s current level of cardiorespiratory fitness, flexibility, muscular strength, muscular endurance, and body composition. From this, and in concert with the participant’s exercise goals, we develop and exercise prescription outlining what and how the person needs to exercise. The exercise leaders then work with the participants to facilitate their being successful in their exercise program. Outreach Outreach Programs Dance Outreach Programs Exercise Clinic Fitness Assessment Health and Wellness Coaching Exercise Classes and Schedule WellMile Incentive Program Fees ExerCYse Music Therapy for Persons with Parkinson’s Disease Physical Education Youth Programs Iowa State Summer Youth Fitness Swim and Gym Student Spotlight: Hannah Buscher “I think that if I can change one person’s life other than mine and dedicate my time to others, then I know that I’ve made a positive impact on this world." View Career Connections: Matt Bruder Major: Kinesiology and Health Organization: SISU Strength Academy View Close Video Player Facebook Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Kinesiology Office 235 Forker Building 534 Wallace Road Ames, IA 50011-4008 515-294-8009 kinesiology@iastate.edu Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility