Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Staff Research Students Internships Contact Us Search Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Internships Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Exercise Physiology - B.S. Sport Administration - B.S.E.d. Athletic Training - B.S. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Undergraduate Programs Bachelors Exercise Physiology - B.S. AAA Exercise Physiology - B.S. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The Undergraduate program in Exercise Physiology at the University of Miami, is designed for students to acquire a sound knowledge base in the sciences followed by the application of that knowledge base to human movement, exercise and sports performance. Clinical laboratory experiences supplement applied scientific theory in a rigorous academic setting. Students will also be given the opportunity to assist graduate students in research, data collection and clinical assessments in the Laboratory of Clinical and Applied Physiology. Established in 1983, the laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-science instrumentation enabling students to gain hands-on, clinical experiences in a sophisticated exercise physiology laboratory. Students will learn how to use the equipment and apply it to real-life situations, on-going research, and clinical studies. Undergraduate students majoring in Exercise Physiology should consider applying to the Accelerated Master’s Program in Exercise Physiology at the end of their junior year or during their senior year. Following completion of their bachelor’s degree, students will be able to obtain a Master’s degree within one year. For more details and a brochure, exercise physiology undergraduate majors should speak to their advisors. Students applying to the Master’s program must submit all application materials and meet the admission criteria established under the "Admissions, Financial Aid and Scholarship" section. Required Coursework Click here for Curriculum Requirements Suggested Plan of Study Click here for Suggested Plan of Study Students may pursue a pre-med track concurrent with the Exercise Physiology major and should inform their advisor if selecting this track. Exercise Physiology requires that students maintain a major GPA of 2.75. Students with a major GPA below 2.75 will have one semester to raise their GPA to meet the requirement. Failure to do so may lead to dismissal from the major. Students transferring from another college or university must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or above in order to be considered for admission to the major. A grade of “C” or better is required for each course applied toward the major. Students are allowed to retake a course one time. All 100 level courses and KIN 202, KIN 212, KIN 221 and KIN 232 are open to non-majors. All other courses are open to majors and minors only. KIN 202 is only open to science majors. All 300- and 400-level courses except those in a STEM cognate, are restricted to declared Exercise Physiology majors only. Seniors are required to participate in the General Education Assessment prior to graduation as part of the SACS accreditation review process. Program Contact Undergraduate Advisor: Dominic Castillejo Senior Advisor Undergraduate Academic Services Room: Merrick Building 312-N d.castillejo@miami.edu 305-284-5990 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices