Skip to content Give Newsletter Resources Contact Search for: Search University of Pennsylvania Kleinman Center for Energy Policy About What We Do Carnot Prize Annual Report People Research Research Areas Access & Equity Cities & Buildings Climate Electricity Emerging Tech Fossil Fuels Markets & Regulation Nuclear Renewables Transportation Publications Research Projects Visiting Scholars Education Certificate Program Student Grants Undergraduate Seminar Summer Fellowships Internships & Opportunities Events Upcoming Events Past Events News & Insights Podcast Kleinman Center for Energy Policy About show submenu for “About” What We Do Carnot Prize Annual Report People Research show submenu for “Research” Research Areas show submenu for “Research Areas” Access & Equity Cities & Buildings Climate Electricity Emerging Tech Fossil Fuels Markets & Regulation Nuclear Renewables Transportation Publications Research Projects Visiting Scholars Education show submenu for “Education” Certificate Program Student Grants Undergraduate Seminar Summer Fellowships Internships & Opportunities Events show submenu for “Events” Upcoming Events Past Events News & Insights Podcast Give Newsletter Resources Contact Search for: Search University of Pennsylvania Home Fossil FuelsClimate Net-Zero Nevada: From Pledge to Action Explore four custom pathways for Nevada to achieve net zero. Read the Digest Scroll Our Center The Kleinman Center fosters impactful research, develops the next generation of energy leaders, and provides a home for stakeholders to explore complex issues. We create the conditions for policy innovation that support a just and efficient transition to sustainable energy. What We Do Insight Energy Week 2022 See all insights Podcast Governing Net-Zero Emissions Targets See all episodes Past Event Net Zero Nevada: From Pledge to Action Webinar See all past events Mark Alan Hughes Founding Faculty Director Mark Alan Hughes leads the Kleinman Center as founding faculty director and publishes research on topics ranging from deep decarbonization to the future of Philadelphia's energy landscape. He is also a professor of practice at the Weitzman School. Meet Our Researchers Nicholas Pevzner Assistant Professor, Department of Landscape Architecture Nicholas Pevzner is a faculty fellow at the Kleinman Center for Energy Policy and an assistant professor in the Department of Landscape Architecture at the Stuart Weitzman School of Design. Meet Our Researchers Peter Psarras Research Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering Peter Psarras is a research assistant professor in chemical and biomolecular engineering at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Meet Our Researchers Arthur van Benthem Associate Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy Arthur van Benthem is an expert in environmental and energy economics, exploring the economic efficiency of energy policy. He is a faculty fellow at the Kleinman Center and an associate professor of Business Economics and Public Policy at Wharton. Meet Our Researchers Steve Viscelli Lecturer, Department of Sociology Steve Viscelli is a faculty fellow at the Kleinman Center and a lecturer in the Department of Sociology. His research focuses on work, labor market economics, and economic regulation, specifically in trucking industry. Meet Our Researchers Jennifer Wilcox Presidential Distinguished Professor Jennifer Wilcox is currently serving at the U.S. Department of Energy, on leave from the Kleinman Center. Her research expertise is in carbon capture and sequestration technologies, in order to minimize the negative impacts of fossil fuels. Meet Our Researchers Newsletter Stay current on Kleinman Center research, news, and events. Sign Up Kleinman Center for Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania Stuart Weitzman School of Design © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Footer Menu Copyright | Privacy | Disclaimer | Accessibility | Emergency Services Contact Getting Here kleinmanenergy@upenn.edu 215.898.8502 Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Footer Menu Copyright | Privacy | Disclaimer | Accessibility | Emergency Services