arrow grid linear view icon Jump to main navigation Jump to main content The College of Arts Sciences Search Courses Fall 2022 First-Year Writing Seminar Enrollment First-Year Writing Seminars WRIT 1370/80 ENGL 2880/90 Courses for International Graduate Students Current and Past FWS Offerings Programs First-Year Writing Seminar Program Writing Workshop Writing in the Majors Expository Writing Support for International Graduate Students Summer Programming Tutoring Cornell Writing Centers Tutoring for International Graduate Students Graduate Writing Service Health Careers Applications Tutoring Knight Writers Mentor Program Writing Resources Teaching Support KNIGHTLYnews FWS Instructor Workshops & Resources Indispensable Reference for Teachers of FWS Support for Graduate Instructors Support for Faculty Support for Teaching International Graduate Students Archive of Teaching Materials Teaching Multilingual Writers Library's Guide to Citations Recognizing and Avoiding Plagiarism Teaching Guides About Knight's Mission ELSO's Mission Administration & Contacts Faculty Profiles Prizes & Awards DISCOVERIES | Student Publication Job Opportunities at Knight Knight Spotlight Series Knight Writing Institute Cornell Writing Centers You are here Home » Tutoring » Cornell Writing Centers Spring 2022 Writing Center For spring 2022, starting Monday, February 7, the Cornell Writing Centers (CWC) will be offering both in-person and online, synchronous tutoring sessions by appointment or drop-in. However, as with all in-person services, we are prepared to shift all tutoring online should COVID-19 cases become high on campus. Our aim is to ensure the safety, health, and well-being of both Cornell writers and our CWC tutors during sessions. Writers will need to register for accounts and make appointments for all online appointments. The CWC provides support for individuals at any stage of the writing process. It is a free resource available to all of Cornell—undergraduate students, pre-freshman and high schoolers in summer programs, graduate students, staff, faculty, and alumni—for nearly any kind of writing project: applications, presentations, lab reports, essays, papers, and more. Tutors (trained graduate students in the summer) serve as responsive listeners and readers who can address questions about the writing process or about particular pieces of writing. They will ask questions that foster critical thinking about your writing, and they will also consider questions of confidence, reading, analytic thought, imagination, and research. All tutors have training in supporting multilingual writers, working with writers remotely online, and in supporting writers working on application materials. Spring Weekly Tutoring Schedule Sundays—Thursdays, 7:00-10:00pm 108 Uris Library (in-person & online) 403 Olin Library (in-person & online) Online Shifts, via WC Online Sundays, Tuesdays, & Thursdays, 7:00-10:00pm 103 Robert Purcell Community Center (in-person only) Mondays—Thursdays, 3:00-5:00pm Mann Library Consultation Area (in-person & online) 178 Rockefeller Hall (in-person & online) Spring 2022 Semester Schedule Tutoring Starts Monday, February 7 No Tutoring: February Break February 25-March 1 Tutoring resumes Wednesday, March 2 No Tutoring: Spring Break April 1-10 Tutoring resumes Monday, April 11 Last Day of Regular Tutoring Schedule May 10 Exams Tutoring *Only Online & In 178 Rockefeller Hall 3:00-5:00pm: May 11-13 May 16-20 How Online Tutoring Works Online tutoring is by appointment only, so to get started, writers need to register for an account and make an appointment. Our online appointments offer the option for video-conferencing or text-box chatting, and in order to “show up” for an appointment, you simply need to login to the schedule, click on your appointment, and then click the yellow link that says “START OR JOIN CONVERSATION.” Our tutors will be prepared to help you navigate technology issues—they will email you to check-in and offer help should you have any trouble “showing up.” Check-out this video demo for how to make and "show up" for an appointment: Though we work hard to ensure smooth online appointments, due to the regularity of technical and other unforeseen issues, we ask all writers to make hour-long appointments. If technology/internet issues do arise or you're struggling to "show up," don't worry--our tutors are trained to reach out and help and they all have a back-up plan! In order to get the best tutoring experience possible, we encourage writers to: Select 4-6 pages to focus on in one session Come with specific questions you have about your writing Bring the assignment prompt, if you have one Be prepared to engage in discussion and do some collaborative work Want to learn more about the Cornell Writing Centers and get some great writing tips? Follow us on social media! Twitter @Cornell_Writing Facebook @CornellWritingCenters Instagram @CornellWritingCenters Feedback & Questions Have you visited the Cornell Writing Centers recently? Would you like to offer us your feedback? Click here: WC Feedback For answers to questions about the WC or if you need special assistance, contact Kate Navickas, WC Director. See our Editing Policy for our approach to supporting writers with sentence-level issues. Important Links Make an Appointment! Writing Center Policies Meet the Tutors! Become a Tutor Writing Resources Health Careers Applications Tutoring Multilingual Tutoring Graduate Writing Service Tutoring for International Graduate Students WC for Teachers Related Stories A Letter to Multilingual Students Learn More The College of Arts & Sciences M101 McGraw Hall and 174 Rockefeller Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853607-255-2280 (McGraw office) • 607-255-6349 (Rockefeller office) • Email the Knight Institute ©2022 Cornell University COVID-19 & Reactivation Planning If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.