Knowledge at Wharton logo Knowledge at Wharton logo Wharton Business Daily logo The Wharton School logo Skip to content Skip to main menu A business journal from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania Mobile menu toggle Subscribe Menu Go to site search Mobile menu toggle TopicsToggle submenu View All Topics » Analytics Entrepreneurship ESG Finance & Accounting Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Markets & The Economy Public Policy Technology Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion COVID-19 Fintech Inflation SeriesToggle submenu View All Series » Beyond Business Series Dollars and Change Series Great Question Series Leading Diversity at Work Series Meet the Authors Series Nano Tools for Leaders Series Articles Podcasts Videos Faculty Bookstore Skip NavigationMenu Topics View All Topics » Analytics Entrepreneurship ESG Finance & Accounting Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Markets & The Economy Public Policy Technology What's Trending Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion COVID-19 Fintech Inflation Series View All Series » Beyond Business Series Beyond Business: Humanizing ESGDecember 13, 2021 How Corporate Governance Is ChangingNovember 23, 2021 Tackling the Climate Crisis: Can Business Lead the Way?October 25, 2021 How the Dialogue on Diversity Is Reshaping BusinessDecember 7, 2020 Dollars and Change Series Making the Business Case for ESGMay 3, 2022 Investing with Impact: Becoming a ‘Responsible Steward’March 22, 2022 How One Firm Has Baked Purpose into Its Business ModelFebruary 14, 2022 The Challenge of Measuring Impact PerformanceJanuary 24, 2022 Great Question Series Great Question: Witold Henisz on ESG InitiativesNovember 17, 2021 Great Question: Wendy De La Rosa on Personal FinanceOctober 15, 2021 Great Question: Dean Erika James on Crisis ManagementAugust 16, 2021 Great Question: Kevin Werbach on Cryptocurrency and FintechJuly 21, 2021 Leading Diversity at Work Series How Data Analytics Can Help Advance DEIJanuary 18, 2022 How Social Class Affects the Career LadderOctober 29, 2021 Protecting Your Mental Health at WorkAugust 24, 2021 Black Women Leaders: Navigating the Intersection of Gender and RaceJuly 6, 2021 Meet the Authors Series Meet the Authors: Wharton’s Peter Cappelli on The Future of the OfficeNovember 4, 2021 Meet the Authors: Mauro Guillén on How Businesses Succeed in a Global MarketplaceJune 21, 2021 Meet the Authors: Wharton’s Katy Milkman on How to ChangeMay 14, 2021 Meet the Authors: Wharton’s Jonah Berger on How to Change Anyone’s MindMarch 19, 2021 Nano Tools for Leaders Series Motivator in Chief: Getting the Most from Your TeamMay 17, 2022 Don’t Disappear in the Hybrid WorkplaceApril 19, 2022 Get It Done: Two Techniques to Fast-track Your GoalsFebruary 28, 2022 Giving Feedback That Works: Plant the Seeds of ConfidenceJanuary 24, 2022 Articles Podcasts Videos Faculty Bookstore Go to site search What I’ve Learned: Anita Summers May 13, 2022 • 8 min read In our new series highlighting Wharton faculty who have made a lasting impact on their fields, professor emeritus Anita Summers talks about her groundbreaking career in economics and public policy, and why integrity and evidence go hand in hand. Play the video for What I’ve Learned: Anita Summers Public Policy Author Angie Basiouny To describe Wharton professor emeritus Anita Summers as a trailblazer would be an understatement. Born in 1925 to a banker father and homemaker mother who always emphasized the importance of education, Summers embarked on a career in economics when few women dared and even fewer could. Her hard work and perseverance, even in the face of blatant sexism, landed her positions at John D. Rockefeller’s Standard Oil Co. and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. She’s also a researcher and highly cited scholar who has worked at universities around the world, served on numerous boards, and was a sought-after economic adviser to state and local governments. She joined the Wharton faculty in 1979, when she was asked by then-Dean Donald Carroll to start the first public policy program at a business school. Summers sat down with Wharton Dean Erika James for an in-depth conversation about her life and career. The talk is the first in a new series titled “What I’ve Learned,” which puts the spotlight on Wharton faculty who have made a lasting impact on their fields. Watch a video of the conversation above, or read the highlights below. Confronting Gender Discrimination: Summers was studying economics at Hunter College in the early 1940s when she took a course on Shakespeare and read The Merchant of Venice. She liked the character of Portia, who disguises herself as a male lawyer to plead a case in court, and wondered if she should become a lawyer. Summers took a constitutional law class with a female professor who told her, “You’ll get into a decent law school and you’ll get a job and you’ll be in the back room. You will never see a courtroom and you will never see your client.” “That was my first statement of [being] a woman,” Summers said. “So, I just dismissed law and went with [economics], but I had no idea what I was going to do.” After earning her master’s degree in economics from the University of Chicago in 1947, Summers began working as an economic analyst for Standard Oil in New York City. The male hiring manager offered her the salary by saying, “We decided we could get the same brains for less money.” Her husband, Robert Summers, was teaching at Yale University, so she commuted daily from their home in New Haven, Connecticut. The company required female employees to notify management if they became pregnant and to stop working at three months, or the start of the second trimester. When Summers learned she was pregnant with her first child, she obtained a signed letter from her doctor and persuaded the company to allow her to work for six months. Standard Oil executives were making a big decision on buying land for a refinery in South Africa, and Summers was tasked with crunching the numbers. She worked 50 hours over a weekend to prepare the report and handed it to her boss, who said she could not go with him to the C-suite because the male executive would not let any women into his office except his secretary. Summers waited by the phone as her boss called every 10 minutes with questions. “I felt like my brain was being insulted,” she recalled. Fed up, she waited until her boss returned at lunchtime and demanded to go back with him. He relented and took her to the executive office. “That was the most unbelievable thing from a person who’s supposed to be highly intelligent that, because I was a woman, I couldn’t come in and talk about all the work I had done in detail,” Summers said. “Anyway, it was never a problem after that.” “My inner feeling was, ‘Let me just speak and give the evidence.’” — Anita Summers After moving to the Philadelphia area in the mid-1960s, Summers joined the League of Women Voters in Lower Merion Township and became president of the organization. She began analyzing disparities in the real estate tax system and wrote a report advocating for changes that would bring greater equality to the county tax calculations. She was set to speak on the report at a town meeting when the man who was supposed to introduce her said, “Why don’t you go [to the] back and do your knitting.” Summers didn’t get angry or react beyond a nod of her head. “My inner feeling was, ‘Let me just speak and give the evidence,’” she said. “I always took this as more demeaning of me and my mind rather than me as a female.” Building Wharton’s Public Policy Program: Summers was working at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia in the late 1970s when she got a call from Wharton Dean Donald Carroll, who asked her to come start a public policy program because he believed students headed for the private sector should understand the public sector and vice versa. It would be the first business school in the nation to have such a program. With encouragement from her husband, who was a Penn economics professor at that time, she agreed and took a position as program director, developing courses from scratch. She focused on applying economic, mathematical, and political science principles to public-sector initiatives, and she helped business students see the importance of governmental regulation in capitalism to protect the vulnerable and hold wrongdoers accountable. The program, which had been tucked inside the Legal Studies department, became a full department within three years, attracting students from across disciplines. It’s a point of pride for Summers that students frequently told her they could not decipher whether she was a Democrat or a Republican. “I thought, ‘Good. That’s exactly what I want,’” she recalled. “I was there to teach the analytic tools. I was not there to give them values and ultimate decision values on that, but what the thought processes and techniques are for thinking it through.” Summers credits Carroll for his vision to launch the program. “I thought that is an extraordinary dean who had the courage, who thought that way, which is exactly the way one should be thinking. And today we should be thinking about it even more deeply,” she said. “I was there to teach the analytic tools. I was not there to give them values.” — Anita Summers Advocating for Efficiency in Education: While at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, Summers noted that efficiency studies were conducted on big-ticket items such as transportation and libraries, but not on education systems. Education costs were the biggest contributor to debt for city budgets, so she began conducting studies to find financial inefficiencies in that sector. Starting in Philadelphia, she gathered data by hand on the demographics of students and teachers, finding that the most disadvantaged students had teachers with the lowest grades on the National Teacher Exam, the highest absences, and the lowest student outcomes. “I came out advocating that, like the rest of the world, outstanding teachers should be rewarded and very poor teachers should be let go,” Summers said. “I think you can imagine the way the unions felt about it. The union invited me to give a talk and they were furious.” Her work garnered headlines and drew attention, making her husband worry that she should have an armed guard as she traveled to various school districts to speak in public about their budgets. She recalled one high-ranking union official in New York admitting to her that she was “absolutely right” in her analysis, but that her recommendation would never happen. “I came into education from a financial point of view,” she said. Some Key Advice: Focus on the integrity of the work. Summers believes this is particularly important in the digital era because disinformation is spread so easily. She encourages those working on public policy issues to “submerge their self-interests” and always remember the stakeholders who are directly affected. Public policy should be based on evidence, not values. Integrity and evidence go hand in hand, Summers said. The facts, the data, and the science should always lead. Government can learn from the private sector. Anyone entering a career in government, whether in social work or sanitation, should learn as much as they can from business about financial and managerial practices and apply those techniques. Push for corporate social responsibility. Summers said conversations around corporate responsibility toward issues such as climate change should be embraced and explored. She wants to see the work continue because returning profits to investors is no longer sufficient; companies have to do more for their employees and their communities. Related videos Public Policy Is the U.S. Economy Solid? Ask the Philadelphia Fed’s Patrick Harker August 20, 2019 • 23 min read Public Policy Want to Build a Smart City? Here Are Some Strategies That Work April 19, 2019 • 23 min read More From Knowledge at Wharton Finance & Accounting How Regulating Charlatans Could Hurt Consumers April 25, 2022 • 8 min read ESG The Benefits of the SEC’s Climate Disclosure Rule April 12, 2022 • 4 min read Analytics Why a Federal Gas Tax Holiday Won’t Tame Prices by Much April 12, 2022 • 5 min read Looking for more insights? Sign up to stay informed about our latest article releases. Email Subscribe Back to top A business journal from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania About Knowledge at Wharton The Wharton School Faculty Bookstore Shop Books About Wharton School Press Contact Wharton School Press Help Contact Us Report a Bug Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram ©2022 Knowledge at Wharton. All rights reserved. Knowledge at Wharton is an affiliate of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help