Skip to content Florida State University FSU | kNOw MORE Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Support, Response, and Prevention Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Home / The kNOw MORE Initiative / Green Dot / About Green Dot About Green Dot Picture an image in your mind, this image that has been displayed countless times on movies, TV shows, and commercials. The image of numerous tiny red dots populating a US map at an epidemic pace. The map begins with a few red dots initially but gradually the spread and coverage of the red dots quickens exponentially until the entire map is unmistakably red. Introducing Red Dots Now imagine a map of our home, Florida State University. Every single red dot is an instance when an individual chose to commit an act of power based personal violence (Power Based Personal Violence- an act of violence that primarily seeks to assert power, control, or intimidate someone. This includes relationship abuse, rape/sexual assault, stalking, etc). A red dot is a moment in time where an action, choice, behavior or word that contributes toward the culture of power based personal violence in any way, shape, or form. The time it takes to hit someone, make someone feel unsafe, or even walk away and chose to do nothing when someone is knowing being hurt are each red dots. Introducing Green Dots Now envision a single green dot on that same map of Florida State University. That single green dot is just an instance when someone performed an act, spoke a word, or made a choice that opposes the culture of power based personal violence. A green dot making sure a friend gets home safe, changing your email signature to make it known that power based personal violence is intolerable on campus, or simply talking with friends about the problem that power based personal violence poses in our community. Each green dot is simply that moment when anyone choses to say no to the current culture of power based personal violence. Little by little, the goal of Green Dot is to outnumber red dots on our envisioned map and effectively change campus culture. Are you ready? If so, add your green dot to our campus map. What Is Your Green Dot? Click on the map’s Green Dots to see what is happening right here at Florida State. Tell us about a Green Dot you have done in the form to the right (below on mobile devices). Make sure to provide a general location in the form so we can add your Green Dot to the campus map. Location of Green Dot: What was your Green Dot? Brief description of the event. Please leave out identifying details (i.e. names) Your Name (optional): Your Email (optional): Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Sidebar The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Get Help Now FSUPD (850) 644-1234 Victim Advocate Program (850) 644-7161 (24/7, including holidays) (850) 756-4320 (text) University Counseling & Psychological Services (850) 644-TALK (8255) * (24/7) Refuge House (Off-Campus Resource) (850) 681-2111 * (* Confidential) © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media