Skip to content Florida State University FSU | kNOw MORE Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Support, Response, and Prevention Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Home / kNOw More Team kNOw More Team Florida State University (FSU), located in Tallahassee, Florida, has a large and diverse college student population, with over 41,000 students. National statistics indicate that sexual assault is a harrowingly common experience among college students, and FSU is no exception. In 2017, the Victim Advocate Program responded to 424 cases of sexual battery, sexual assault, sexual misconduct, relationship violence, or domestic violence. As such, there is a clear need to implement innovative interventions to disrupt these troubling numbers. The kNOw Team is a collaborative answer to this critical need. Best practice and experience tells us that no one office or program can be the solution to preventing power-based personal violence. We must work together to better understand the complexities of this issue and provide the best possible care for our students, faculty, and staff. The purpose of the kNOw MORE is to ensure all members of our community, including underserved populations, have a voice and access to resources; while promoting a collective understanding that we are responsible for preventing power-based personal violence. The mission of kNOw MORE is to ensure a trauma informed approach across response, policy/implementation, and prevention through the utilization of the three teams. The effect of this model will decrease barriers for individuals to access services and build trust in our institutional resources. The vision of the kNOw MORE is to gradually decrease the amount of power-based personal violence acts committed in our community, while seeing a culture shift that values bystander intervention and a trauma informed institution. The kNOw MORE Team acknowledges that the processes of Criminal Justice, Title IX, and Student Rights and Responsibilities are essential to the mission, but are not the only components in the continuum of care. Many survivors of power-based personal violence may not choose to report or access the above mentioned reporting options therefore kNOw MORE must go beyond these structures to truly create a trauma informed institution. In an effort to create a more comprehensive approach kNOw MORE ensures multiple members from spaces across campus and the community are actively collaborating throughout the process. kNOw MORE Objectives Increase communication and transparency among all constituencies. Strive for a trauma-informed campus Decrease in the cultural acceptance of power based personal violence in our community. Sidebar The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Get Help Now FSUPD (850) 644-1234 Victim Advocate Program (850) 644-7161 (24/7, including holidays) (850) 756-4320 (text) University Counseling & Psychological Services (850) 644-TALK (8255) * (24/7) Refuge House (Off-Campus Resource) (850) 681-2111 * (* Confidential) © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media