Skip to content Florida State University FSU | kNOw MORE Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Support, Response, and Prevention Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Home / The kNOw MORE Initiative / Green Dot / What Can I Do? What Can I Do? Barriers Why don’t we always step in whenever we feel that an act of power based personal violence has either happened or might potentially happen? All of us have some sort of barrier that prevents us from taking action. Here are a few common ones to show that no one is alone in having barriers: Shyness Being non-confrontational Thinking someone else will step in and intervene Fear of physical retaliation Being unsure of the situation Fear of escalating the conflict The important thing is to acknowledge our barriers so we can identify ways to work around them and help others. In the moment When presented with a situation that has the potential of turning into an act of power based personal violence, here are some of the ways that you can intervene: If I hear someone yelling and fighting, I call FSUPD. If I see someone grab, push or verbally abuse another person, I say something to them or go get help or get someone else to. I make sure all of my friends get home safe from a party. If I see yelling or fighting, I distract them by spilling something between them. Note: it is always important to take into account your personal safety when deciding which intervention method you want to use. Proactive Green Dots The great thing about green dots is that they can be performed without waiting for a potential red dot to occur. These actions preventively turn the campus culture towards one of bystander intervention: Have a conversation with a friend or coworker about Green Dot and why ending the culture of power based personal violence is important to you. Write a paper or do a class assignment on violence prevention. Change your e-mail signature line to include the statement, “Proud to be a supporter of Green Dot” and include the link to Florida State University’s Green Dot website. Encourage friends and coworkers to attend violence prevention events. Attend a Bystander Training Session FSU Green Dot hosts Bystander Trainings periodically throughout the fall, spring and summer semesters. This interactive training seeks to empower participants to discover ways to be active bystanders and create a community that does not tolerate violence and recognizes that we all have a role to play in ending it. For information on the next scheduled training and how to sign up, contact Nell Robinson. Sidebar The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Get Help Now FSUPD (850) 644-1234 Victim Advocate Program (850) 644-7161 (24/7, including holidays) (850) 756-4320 (text) University Counseling & Psychological Services (850) 644-TALK (8255) * (24/7) Refuge House (Off-Campus Resource) (850) 681-2111 * (* Confidential) © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media