Knowledge at Wharton logo Knowledge at Wharton logo Wharton Business Daily logo The Wharton School logo Skip to content Skip to main menu A business journal from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania Mobile menu toggle Subscribe Menu Go to site search Mobile menu toggle TopicsToggle submenu View All Topics » Analytics Entrepreneurship ESG Finance & Accounting Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Markets & The Economy Public Policy Technology Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion COVID-19 Fintech Inflation SeriesToggle submenu View All Series » Beyond Business Series Dollars and Change Series Great Question Series Leading Diversity at Work Series Meet the Authors Series Nano Tools for Leaders Series Articles Podcasts Videos Faculty Bookstore Skip NavigationMenu Topics View All Topics » Analytics Entrepreneurship ESG Finance & Accounting Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Markets & The Economy Public Policy Technology What's Trending Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion COVID-19 Fintech Inflation Series View All Series » Beyond Business Series Beyond Business: Humanizing ESGDecember 13, 2021 How Corporate Governance Is ChangingNovember 23, 2021 Tackling the Climate Crisis: Can Business Lead the Way?October 25, 2021 How the Dialogue on Diversity Is Reshaping BusinessDecember 7, 2020 Dollars and Change Series Making the Business Case for ESGMay 3, 2022 Investing with Impact: Becoming a ‘Responsible Steward’March 22, 2022 How One Firm Has Baked Purpose into Its Business ModelFebruary 14, 2022 The Challenge of Measuring Impact PerformanceJanuary 24, 2022 Great Question Series Great Question: Witold Henisz on ESG InitiativesNovember 17, 2021 Great Question: Wendy De La Rosa on Personal FinanceOctober 15, 2021 Great Question: Dean Erika James on Crisis ManagementAugust 16, 2021 Great Question: Kevin Werbach on Cryptocurrency and FintechJuly 21, 2021 Leading Diversity at Work Series How Data Analytics Can Help Advance DEIJanuary 18, 2022 How Social Class Affects the Career LadderOctober 29, 2021 Protecting Your Mental Health at WorkAugust 24, 2021 Black Women Leaders: Navigating the Intersection of Gender and RaceJuly 6, 2021 Meet the Authors Series Meet the Authors: Wharton’s Peter Cappelli on The Future of the OfficeNovember 4, 2021 Meet the Authors: Mauro Guillén on How Businesses Succeed in a Global MarketplaceJune 21, 2021 Meet the Authors: Wharton’s Katy Milkman on How to ChangeMay 14, 2021 Meet the Authors: Wharton’s Jonah Berger on How to Change Anyone’s MindMarch 19, 2021 Nano Tools for Leaders Series Motivator in Chief: Getting the Most from Your TeamMay 17, 2022 Don’t Disappear in the Hybrid WorkplaceApril 19, 2022 Get It Done: Two Techniques to Fast-track Your GoalsFebruary 28, 2022 Giving Feedback That Works: Plant the Seeds of ConfidenceJanuary 24, 2022 Articles Podcasts Videos Faculty Bookstore Go to site search Why More Companies Are Standing Up on Social Issues May 10, 2022 • 4 min read From the war in Ukraine to anti-LGBTQ+ legislation in Florida, companies are increasingly speaking out on social issues. Wharton management professor Stephanie Creary explains why silence is no longer golden for firms. ESG Leadership Management Featured Faculty Stephanie Creary Author Angie Basiouny https://open.acast.com/public/streams/621d3ea487eba30014f27133/episodes/62796b06fcc96b001543034e.mp3 Wharton’s Stephanie Creary talks with Wharton Business Daily on SiriusXM about why companies are increasingly speaking out on social issues. Peer pressure is hard to resist, even for big corporations. Disney CEO Bob Chapek spoke out against Florida’s anti-LGBTQ+ legislation after criticism of his silence began trending on social media. Microsoft stopped sales and service in Russia after releasing a sharply worded statement condemning Vladimir Putin’s “unjustified, unprovoked, and unlawful” invasion of Ukraine. And Goldman Sachs pledged $10 million to address racial and social injustice after the 2020 police killing of George Floyd. “What we’re seeing right now in many companies is a really strong response to external advice, recommendations, pressure to engage more intently around social issues,” Wharton management professor Stephanie Creary said during an interview with Wharton Business Daily on SiriusXM. Creary, who studies organizational behavior, identifies this response as “social authorization” or a kind of permission granted by external groups for business leaders to take internal action. Executives are growing more aware of the close connections among societal issues, the company’s responsibility on those issues, and their bottom line, which makes them more likely to engage. External pressure isn’t the only mechanism that elicits a response from the C-suite, she said, but it is an effective one these days. Historically, most companies kept their eyes on business objectives and their noses out of the political or social fray. But that’s changed in the last 15 years — and especially in the last two years since Floyd’s death — with investors and consumers demanding greater transparency and authenticity. They want to know where companies stand and what they are doing on a broad range of big-picture issues, from reducing carbon emissions to closing the wealth gap. It’s one reason why ESG — environmental, social, and corporate governance — is at the top of many corporate agendas. “What I’m finding in my research is that companies are starting to see the linkages between their activities and what happens socially — that these are not separate entities,” Creary said. “These are things that are new and emerging but certainly promising.” “I think the Disney [episode] is the perfect example of the tension that still exists between business and policy.” — Stephanie Creary The case of Disney exemplifies the shift. When Chapek raised objections to the education legislation, which has been dubbed by critics as the “Don’t Say Gay” bill, the governor and lawmakers responded swiftly by stripping Disney of a special tax designation that it had maintained since 1967. The bitter battle between Gov. Ron DeSantis and the state’s largest private employer has made global headlines and spawned a lawsuit by taxpayers against the state, claiming they will have to pay more than $1 billion in bond debt for the company. “I think the Disney [episode] is the perfect example of the tension that still exists between business and policy,” Creary said. “The old way of doing things would be what many politicians would suggest — that business stays out of anything that has legal implications. But what we know is business can’t stay out of anything that has legal implications because, by their very nature, they are beholden to all the laws that everyone else is beholden to.” The George Floyd Effect The sequential police murders in 2020 of Breonna Taylor, a Black medical worker who was shot to death during a botched raid on her apartment, and George Floyd, an unarmed Black man killed on the street as bystanders watched, prompted thousands of companies to take a hard look at their own contributions to systemic racism. Many responded by pledging money to Black Lives Matter and community causes, increasing racial bias training, establishing cross-cultural peer groups, and hiring chief diversity officers. According to LinkedIn data, diversity roles rose 71% between 2015 and 2020. Creary also noted an expansion of hires with the unusual title of director of employee activism, which she found “absolutely fascinating.” “When you think about the history of business and the history of separating business from societal issues, the fact that companies are starting to hire someone called a director of employee activism helps us to understand that this is a tide that is turning,” the professor said. Whether it results in lip service or lasting change is still a question, she added. It’s easy for companies to lose sight of diversity and inclusion when so many other urgent problems are on deck. “Their job is to keep talking about it,” Creary said of chief diversity officers and others in similar roles. “When something else happens in the company and people get distracted, or when the business cycle turns and we’re focused on helping the bottom line to be increased, these directors of hybrid functions are there to make sure the company doesn’t take its eye off the issues.” Knowledge at Wharton Podcast Subscribe Wharton Business Daily Podcast Subscribe Related podcasts Management Your Manager Is Leaving: What Does That Mean for Your Career? May 24, 2022 • 10 min read ESG Making the Business Case for ESG May 3, 2022 • 20 min read More From Knowledge at Wharton Management Is Workplace Loyalty Gone for Good? May 31, 2022 • 7 min read Management Your Manager Is Leaving: What Does That Mean for Your Career? May 24, 2022 • 10 min read Management Motivator in Chief: Getting the Most from Your Team May 17, 2022 • 4 min read Looking for more insights? Sign up to stay informed about our latest article releases. Email Subscribe Back to top A business journal from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania About Knowledge at Wharton The Wharton School Faculty Bookstore Shop Books About Wharton School Press Contact Wharton School Press Help Contact Us Report a Bug Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram ©2022 Knowledge at Wharton. All rights reserved. Knowledge at Wharton is an affiliate of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help