Skip to content Florida State University FSU | kNOw MORE Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Support, Response, and Prevention Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Home / The kNOw MORE Initiative / Green Dot Green Dot Upcoming Trainings FSU Green Dot Bystander Trainings empower students to discover ways to be active bystanders and create a community that does not tolerate violence. Join us for a fun and interactive day of learning how we can be reactive and proactive in ending power based personal violence in our community. Prizes and lunch will be provided. There are no upcoming student trainings currently scheduled. FSU Green Dot Faculty and Staff Bystander Trainings are open to all university staff, faculty, and administration. This training will focus on ways that faculty and staff can help to eliminate power based personal violence in our community and support those who have experienced it. Wednesday, June 29th, 2022 (1pm – 5pm) Register Here for Faculty and Staff (For more information about upcoming trainings contact Nell Robinson.) Green Dot is a bystander intervention initiative that recognizes that most people care about the high prevalence of power based personal violence but don’t have the tools to know how to be part of the solution. Green Dot seeks to change the culture by activating people that may not have been directly impacted by power based personal violence. We recognize that power based personal violence prevention is everyone’s responsibility. The initiative uses the concept of Green Dots (actions taken to eliminate/prevent Red Dots) displacing Red Dots (potential/real acts of violence). Actions can be reactive-responding to a Red Dot in the moment, or proactive- preemptively demonstrating a Green Dot. According to the CDC, this program has a greater than 50 percent reduction in frequency of sexual violence perpetration and has been implemented at Vanderbilt, University of Virginia, and University of Kentucky. Source: Coker, Ann L., Cook-Craig, Patricia G., Williams, Corrine M., Fisher, Bonnie S., Clear, Emily R., Garcia, Lisandra S., & Hegge, Lea M., (2011). Evaluation of Green Dot: An Active Bystander Intervention to Reduce Sexual Violence on College Campuses. Violence against Women. 17(6): 777-796 What Is Your Green Dot? Click on the map’s Green Dots to see what is happening right here at Florida State. Tell us about a Green Dot you have done in the form to the right (below on mobile devices). Make sure to provide a general location in the form so we can add your Green Dot to the campus map. Location of Green Dot: What was your Green Dot? Brief description of the event. Please leave out identifying details (i.e. names) Your Name (optional): Your Email (optional): Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Sidebar The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Get Help Now FSUPD (850) 644-1234 Victim Advocate Program (850) 644-7161 (24/7, including holidays) (850) 756-4320 (text) University Counseling & Psychological Services (850) 644-TALK (8255) * (24/7) Refuge House (Off-Campus Resource) (850) 681-2111 * (* Confidential) © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media