Skip to content Florida State University FSU | kNOw MORE Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Support, Response, and Prevention Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Home / kNOw More Teams and Members kNOw More Teams and Members Response Team On April 4, 2011, the Office for Civil Rights (OCR) in the U.S. Department of Education issued a Dear Colleague Letter (DCL) regarding student-on-student sexual harassment and sexual violence. The DCL outlined a school’s responsibility to respond promptly and effectively to sexual violence against students in accordance with Title IX. In addition to the mandate given by OCR, the kNOw MORE Response Team is dedicated to creating and maintaining a culture of care and respect. The CCRT is committed to supporting the FSU campus community and anyone who reports experiencing power-based personal violence. The purpose of the Response Team is to provide a collaborative, multidisciplinary victim-centered approach to responding to sexual/power-based personal violence. The team seeks to improve and ensure access to service provisions, investigation, and confidential resources. The Response Team collaborates with other departments on and off campus who are providing care/support for those who have survived power-based personal violence. The Response Team is tasked with: 1) establishing a comprehensive guide for the campus community on how to access resources, support services, and initiate a complaint (file a report) and 2) creating a clear understanding of team members’ roles and developing a process for identifying survivor needs on campus and discussing barriers/issues that present during that process. Objectives Increase collaboration of campus services/supports to survivors/victims. Respond in a manner which is victim-centered and keeps needs of the victim as a priority. Establish guidelines for case review. Identify and/or create opportunities for victims to connect with alternative supports and resources (besides traditional counseling). Team members will use trauma-informed practice. Members Student Rights and Responsibilities Dean of Students Housing University Counseling & Psychological Services Victim Advocate Program FSU Police Department Tallahassee Police Department Human Resources Women’s Clinic University Health Services Athletics Center for Health Advocacy & Wellness Title IX Director Advisory Team The University is committed to providing programs, activities, and an educational environment free from Sex Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct. To accomplish this, FSU expects all members of its community to act in respectful and responsible ways towards each other. To do so, a unified Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy that sets forth resources available to all members of the University community, describes prohibited conduct, and establishes procedures for responding to reports of Sex Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct (including Sexual Assault, Sexual Harassment, and other unwelcome sexual behavior) must be enforced. As a recipient of Federal funds, FSU is required to comply with Title IX of the Higher Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq. (“Title IX”), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in education programs or activities. Sexual Misconduct, as defined in this Policy, is a form of Sex Discrimination prohibited by Title IX. The unified policy address complaints of Sex Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct where the accused is a student, faculty, staff member, third party contractor, or visitor to FSU. The University makes this policy and educational opportunities readily available to all students and other members of the University community. The purpose of the kNOw MORE Advisory Team is to implement (in coordination with the Board of Trustees and community partners) a unified Sexual Misconduct Policy that is clear, inclusive, and accessible to all members of the FSU community. Objectives Disseminating the unified Sexual Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Policy Ensuring all members of the FSU community are educated about the policy Develop and implement “best practices” procedures for the investigation and resolution of Sexual Misconduct complaints Members Vice President for Student Affairs Human Resources University Counseling center General Counsel Housing Legal Services of North Florida International Programs Victim Advocate Program Title IX Faculty Develop. & Advance Florida Counsel Against Sexual Violence FSU Police Department Registrar Ctr. for Leadership & Social Change University Health Services Center for Health Advocacy & Wellness International programs Student Rights and Responsibilities Provost & Academic Affairs Dean of Students Athletics Student Disability Recourse Services Prevention Team Effective prevention strategies address multiple levels and are based on the best available evidence, with emphasis on rigorous evaluation that measure changes in behavior. Prevention strategies that are consistent with best practices; are theory-based and include multiple skill-based sessions have the greatest potential to reduce rates of sexual violence. It is crucial that prevention efforts operate within the continuum of care model of kNOw MORE. The purpose of the Prevention Team is to actively engage the campus community in challenging cultural norms by encouraging bystander interventions and promoting healthy relationships. The Prevention Team strives for widespread attitudinal and behavior change among students, faculty, and staff. The Prevention Team has two overarching scopes of work. The first is the implementation of Green Dot across campus and the second is creating a strategic structure for engaging the campus community in conversations around healthy relationships. The Prevention Team will use input from both the Response and Advisory Teams to inform efforts and direction. Objectives Increase bystander intervention behavior. Decrease in rape myth acceptance. Increase in those who feel supported reporting power-based personal violence. Increase an individual’s capacity to set and maintain boundaries. Increase an individual’s ability to identify components of healthy and unhealthy relationship. Increase in knowledge of campus and off-campus resources. Members Dean of Students Housing University Counseling & Psychological Services Victim Advocate Program Campus Rec Department Of Health FSU Police Department Human Resources Center for Leadership and Social Change Athletic Coordinators New student Family Programs Fraternity and Sorority Life Student Government Association Student Activities Institute for Family Violence International programs Baptist Collegiate Ministries Refuge House Case Management Title IX Director Sidebar The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Get Help Now FSUPD (850) 644-1234 Victim Advocate Program (850) 644-7161 (24/7, including holidays) (850) 756-4320 (text) University Counseling & Psychological Services (850) 644-TALK (8255) * (24/7) Refuge House (Off-Campus Resource) (850) 681-2111 * (* Confidential) © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media