Skip to content Florida State University FSU | kNOw MORE Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Support, Response, and Prevention Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Home / The kNOw MORE Initiative / What is Power Based Personal Violence? What is Power Based Personal Violence? We recognize the impact and prevalence of power based personal violence including sexual violence/misconduct, interpersonal violence, domestic/relationship violence, stalking and sexual harassment. Power based personal violence can be committed by friends, partners, acquaintances, or strangers. Power based personal violence is rooted in the assertion of power, control and/or intimidation with the intent to harm another. We believe that prevention is about action, education, and the continuum of care for our students, faculty, and staff. Some Important FSU Stats: 2.9 % of FSU undergrads experienced sexual penetration without their consent 4.8% of FSU undergrads experienced stalking 7.4% of FSU undergrads experienced an emotionally abusive intimate relationship 2.4% of FSU undergrads experienced a sexually abusive intimate relationship 1.7% of FSU undergrads experienced a physically abusive intimate relationship Source: FSU NCHA Spring 2016 Title IX: Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 is a federal law that protects people from all forms of sex discrimination in education programs and activities receiving federal funding (including federal financial aid). Title IX states: “No person in the United States, shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” Sex discrimination includes sexual harassment, sexual violence (like rape, sexual battery, sexual assault), and other forms of sexual misconduct. All of these forms of misconduct are prohibited by Title IX. At FSU, the University’s Title IX Coordinators are responsible for ensuring Title IX Compliance. The Office for Civil Rights in the Department of Education is the federal agency responsible for enforcing Title IX. Consent: The Florida State University Student Conduct Code defines consent as the willing and clear participation in a sexual act. Consent is a process of getting or giving permission for sexual intimacy. Consent can be withdrawn at any time. Legally consent requires several key elements, and if any of these are absent and a sex act occurs, it is a sexual assault. Consent is defined under Florida Statute F.S.794.011 and in the Student Conduct Code. Sexual Battery (SB): Oral, anal, or vaginal penetration by, or in union with, the sexual organ of another or the anal or vaginal penetration of another by any other object. Sexual battery is committed without a victim’s consent, and may be committed with or without a weapon. (FSS 794.011) Sexual Assault (SA): Verbal or physical threat that the victim may be raped. Also includes unwanted touching of a sexual manner. (VAP definition; No Florida Statute exists for this particular situation – see Assault FSS 784.011) Sexual Misconduct (SM): Obscene or indecent behavior, which includes, but is not limited to, the display of sexual behavior that would reasonably be offensive to others. Specifically included in this category would be indecent exposure, public masturbation, sexual harassment, and displaying sexual materials in the company of others without their consent. (Based on the FSU Student Code of Conduct) Relationship Violence (RV): A relationship in which there is physical, emotional, economic, or sexual abuse, intimidation, threats, isolation, destruction of personal property by one person in a relationship (but not family or household members to the other. (VAP definition – no Florida Statute exists for this situation- see battery FSS 784.041 or 785.046) Domestic Violence (DV): Any offense inflicted by one family or household member including physical, emotional, economic, or sexual abuse, intimidation, threats, isolation, or destruction of personal property. “Family or household members” are defined as spouses, former spouses, persons related by blood or marriage, persons who are presently residing together as if a family or who have resided together in the past as if a family, and persons who have a child in common regardless of whether they have been married or have resided together at any given time. (FSS 741.28) Stalking (ST): The willful, malicious, and repeated following, harassment, or cyberstalking of another person. (FSS 784.048(2)) Harassment (HS): Unwanted contact with a person that causes them distress and serves no purpose. (FSS 784.048(1a)) Battery (BT): The offense of battery occurs when a person actually and intentionally touches or strikes another person against the will of the other; or intentionally causes bodily harm to another person. (FSS 784.03) Assault (AS): A verbal or physical threat to harm another person, coupled with an apparent ability to do so, and doing some act which makes the person fear that such violence is imminent. (FSS 784.011) Sexual Harassment (SH): Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature Sidebar The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Get Help Now FSUPD (850) 644-1234 Victim Advocate Program (850) 644-7161 (24/7, including holidays) (850) 756-4320 (text) University Counseling & Psychological Services (850) 644-TALK (8255) * (24/7) Refuge House (Off-Campus Resource) (850) 681-2111 * (* Confidential) © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media