Skip to content Florida State University FSU | kNOw MORE Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Support, Response, and Prevention Home Get Help Now Helping and Healing Support and Healing Helping Family Members Heal Helping Friends Heal Why Victims Stay I Want to Support Someone Title IX Title IX Signed Statement Frequently Asked Questions Meet the Office of Title IX Staff Title IX Policy Anti-Sexual Misconduct Policy Trainings Resources Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Office The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Safety Exit – quit website if in danger Home / The kNOw MORE Initiative / Healthy Relationships Healthy Relationships I. Foundations Relationships are an important part of our lives. Relationships can take many forms including family relationships, friendships, and romantic relationships. All relationships take work to build, maintain, and sometimes end. Below are some foundations for building healthy relationships. Communication: Talking honestly and respectfully about all partners’ likes, dislikes, wishes, hopes, dreams, etc. Compromise: Partners must have the willingness to compromise because of their commitment to the relationship. Compromise means working together to find an outcome that all partners can be comfortable with. Acceptance: Accepting who your partner is, not who you would like them to be. Commitment: Commitment is not synonymous with monogamous fidelity; it can mean a commitment to the agreements partners decide are fundamental to their way of being together. The decision to be in a relationship must come from all partners. Agreement: Agreeing on the fundamental rules of the relationship from the beginning is very important. The decision about what kind of relationship configuration to enter into must be mutually agreed upon by all parties. Source: The Male Couple Guide by Eric Marcus II. Types of Abuse Abuse is a pattern of behavior used to gain and maintain power and control, and it can come in many forms. Click on each type of abuse to learn more. Physical Emotional/Verbal Abuse Sexual Abuse Financial Abuse Digital Abuse Stalking Source: loveisrespect.org If you would like to talk to someone or would like more information please contact the Victim Advocate Program at 644.7161 or stop by Suite 4100 University Center Building A. III. How to Get Involved Join the kNOw MORE student advisory board and provide a student voice on power based personal violence prevention, response, and policy initiatives on campus. The goal of this board is to create programs and events that contribute to ending violence in our campus community. The board will collaborate with other student groups and campus departments to make a sustainable change at FSU. Contact Jose Carval for more information. Facilitate a healthy relationships conversation with your student group. Go to http://healthycampus.fsu.edu/for-students/request-a-presentation to request a presentation. Also register for a Green Dot training! Contact Nell Robinson to learn about upcoming trainings. IV. Resources The following resources come from Love is Respect: The Relationship Spectrum All relationships exist on a spectrum from healthy to abusive with unhealthy somewhere in the middle. Check out the Relationship Spectrum to see where your relationship falls. Setting Boundaries Talking about your boundaries with your partner is a great way to make sure that each person’s needs are being met and you feel safe in your relationship. Here are some things to think about when setting boundaries in your relationship. Communication Open, honest communication should be part of every healthy relationship. Use these guidelines to open up the channels of communication between you and your partner. Relationships Quizzes Test your knowledge of healthy relationships and dating abuse with quizzes Sidebar The kNOw MORE Initiative Support, Response, and Prevention kNOw More Team kNOw More Teams and Members What is Power Based Personal Violence? Green Dot About Green Dot Meet the Coordinators Request Overview Speech What Can I Do? Faculty and Staff Toolkit Healthy Relationships Sexual Assault Awareness Month Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Request Get Help Now FSUPD (850) 644-1234 Victim Advocate Program (850) 644-7161 (24/7, including holidays) (850) 756-4320 (text) University Counseling & Psychological Services (850) 644-TALK (8255) * (24/7) Refuge House (Off-Campus Resource) (850) 681-2111 * (* Confidential) © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media