Skip to content Skip to the content Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program Search Menu The Program Curriculum Medical Tutorial Internships MCAT Preparation Advising and Support Life at Johns Hopkins Acceptance to Medical School The Glide Year Medical School Linkages Where Our Students Go Eligibility and Admissions How to Apply Information Sessions Tuition & Aid People Student Testimonials Search Search for: Close search Close Menu The ProgramShow sub menu Curriculum Medical Tutorial Internships MCAT Preparation Advising and Support Life at Johns Hopkins Acceptance to Medical SchoolShow sub menu The Glide Year Medical School Linkages Where Our Students Go Eligibility and AdmissionsShow sub menu How to Apply Information Sessions Tuition & Aid People Student Testimonials Inspired to change your career and enter medicine? The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program can prepare you for your career as a physician through world-renowned science education, outstanding medical tutorial opportunities, and extensive advising. Our program includes courses that synthesize science coursework with practical applications to prepare you for medical school, while medical tutorials offer students exceptional clinical and research experiences with faculty from the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. A small group of peers set amidst the many resources and opportunities within the wider institution make this program unique. Get Started Apply Now Attend Info Session Admissions Update: Application closes April 8, 2022 at 5pm Eastern for 2022-2023 incoming class We will be closing the application portal on Friday, April 8th, 2022 at 5pm Eastern time. Applications may not be submitted once the portal has been closed. For applicants interested in applying for the 2023-2024 cohort, the application for that class will open in September 2022. If you need to send materials to our program, please email them to postbac@jhu.edu. Credentials are considered “official” if they are sent to us directly from the institution or letter writer. Hear from our Students View more of our student testimonials “If the postbac year doesn’t test your mental stamina, perseverance, time management skills, and academic work ethic, you’re not going to the right program! Medical school is challenging, and the Hopkins Postbac prepares you for the first year. The school and community have so much to offer.” Scott Pfirrman Contact Us If you have a question about the Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program, please email us at postbac@jhu.edu or fill out the form. Contact Us "*" indicates required fields Name* First Last Email* Please type your question here:* How did you hear about our program? Premedical or College Adviser Mailings Newspaper Internet Other CAPTCHA Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Accessibility Privacy Statement Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube TikTok © 2022 Johns Hopkins University, Zanvyl Krieger School of Arts & Sciences, 3400 N. Charles St, Baltimore, MD 21218