     About KS WELI Kendra Scott Kendra Scott Center Staff & Interns Advisory Boards Contact Us Curriculum Sponsored Courses WiE Specialization Portfolio Pieces Community For Students For Alumni Get Engaged Resources In the News Supporters FoundHERs Meet our FoundHERs Future FoundHERs Support our FoundHERs Programs & Events Upcoming Programs & Events Dream To Venture 2022 Pitch Competition Past Programs & Events Give Now em·bold·en Select Page Empowering women to lead. Encouraging the world to follow. Empowering women to lead. Encouraging the world to follow. The Kendra Scott Women’s Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute will strengthen the next generation of courageous, creative women leaders who will change the world. Kendra Scott Endowment Announcement Kendra Scott’s Philanthropic Investment in UT Austin Expands Support for Future Women Business Leaders “Kendra’s investment will transform the lives of thousands of future leaders, and all of society will reap the benefits,” said Jay Hartzell, president of UT Austin. “I am thrilled she is expanding her partnership with UT to attract top talent and leverage the strength of our city and university as an engine for entrepreneurship.” Read the Press Release May FoundHER – FLORAL SEA Introducing FLORAL SEA (or The House of FLORAL SEA), a conceptual fashion house and design studio founded in September 2019 by multidisciplinary artist, designer, and entrepreneur, Flora Tenille West. Get Inspired Signature Events Relive the inaugural Dream to Venture event experience – an evening filled with inspiring content shining a spotlight on what it means to be a FoundHER. KSWELIxDTV Programs & Events Join us for KS WELI sponsored programs & events designed to equip students with the tools needed to gain intentional skills and practice. Upcoming Programs Curriculum Learn more about the newly launch Women in Entrepreneurship specialization and KS WELI sponsored courses that offer interdisciplinary opportunities in management, design, and entrepreneurship. Sponsored Courses Community Become part of a vibrant, diverse, and supportive community to kick-start your future through internships, leadership training, mentoring, funding opportunities, and more. Learn about Student Board and Alumni Board. Get Engaged About // Kendra Scott Kendra Scott is a loving mom, a driven entrepreneur and a passionate designer who believes the truest form of success is giving back in a meaningful way. Kendra's Story kswelinstitute 506 3,147 Kendra Scott Women’s Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute @utaustintx | #KSWELIxUTAustin Empowering women to lead. Encouraging the world to follow. kswelinstitute View May 28 Open #Hookem for our KS WELI May Female #FoundHER Flora Tenille West, founder of FLORAL SEA!🤘💛 @shop_floralsea.co is a conceptual fashion house and design studio. The brand showcases sustainably- and ethically-made entry-luxury collections that prioritize fashion-forward aesthetics, artistic expression, and cultural inclusivity at the forefront of design and brand experience — exhibiting how both style and sustainability can coexist within high-end contemporary fashion. We can’t wait to see how Flora continues #empoweringwomentolead and #encouragingtheworldtofollow! #KSWELIxUTAustin #KSWELIxFoundHER #kswelinstituteUT #thenextgeneration #ifyoucanseeheryoucanbeher ... 13 0 kswelinstitute View May 25 Open The Kendra Scott Women's Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute (KS WELI) is hiring an Events Program Associate Intern! ✨ Are you or is someone in your network looking for a part-time position to empower women to lead and encourage the world to follow with an incredible community and team? As part of the KS WELI, you will be working closely with the Senior Events Program Coordinator and will be responsible for providing support through a variety of channels; including program & event support, marketing & communications support, and others to be assigned. The Events Program Associate will assist with the development and design of core KS WELI initiatives, and other strategic tasks as assigned! Applications are now open. Apply Today on Handshake in the link in bio! #KSWELIxUTAUSTIN #kswelinstituteUT #empoweringwometolead #encouragingtheworldtofollow #thenextgeneration ... 45 0 kswelinstitute View May 24 Open The Kendra Scott Women's Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute (KS WELI) is hiring a part-time FoundHER Program Coordinator! ✨ Are you or is someone in your network looking for a part-time position to empower women to lead and encourage the world to follow with an incredible community and team? As part of the KS WELI, you will be responsible for developing and leading the KS WELI FoundHER Program and maintain campus and community relationships that lead to additional opportunities for the KS WELI FoundHERs. Through resources, events, and marketing, KS WELI is able to connect these incredible FoundHERs to you and our KS WELI community. Through this program, 52 FoundHERs will be served from across 32 startups by the end of 2022. If you’re looking for a community of inspiring, courageous women leaders, then this position is for you! 🤘💛 Applications are now open and you can apply today using our link in bio! 🤘💛 #KSWELIxUTAUSTIN #kswelinstituteUT #empoweringwometolead #encouragingtheworldtofollow #thenextgeneration ... 32 0 kswelinstitute View May 23 Open Hook Em for our Student Board Member Highlight! Daija Esparza shares with us her favorite thing about the KS WELI!🤘💛 "SB allowed me to explore my interests and passions through our events and committees!" What is your favorite thing about the KS WELI? Let us know in the comments ✨ #KSWELIxUTAustin #kswelinstituteut #empoweringwomentolead #encouragingtheworldtofollow ... 19 0 kswelinstitute View May 19 Open We loved commemorating all our seniors, their accomplishments, and their post-graduation plans during our second annual Senior Celebration at the Kendra Scott Center! 🤘💛 Our senior celebration saw an amazing transition of leadership of the KS WELI Student Board, an inspirational speech by Kendra Scott, and a motivational Alumni Panel about a variety of entrepreneurship and post-graduation topics! Thank you to all of our seniors for using their inspiring voices to continue #empoweringwomentolead and #encouragingtheworldtofollow ✨ #kswelixutaustin #kswelinstituteut #thenextgeneration ... 273 4 kswelinstitute View May 19 Open Hook Em for our Student Council Member Highlight! Sydney Key shares with us her favorite thing about the KS WELI!🤘💛 "Being able to see my work posted to the KS WELI social media or used within SB or Student Council!" What is your favorite thing about the KS WELI? Let us know in the comments ✨ #KSWELIxUTAustin #kswelinstituteut #empoweringwomentolead #encouragingtheworldtofollow ... 44 0 kswelinstitute View May 14 Open #HOOKEM for our KS WELI Seniors! 🤘💛 We are so excited to recognize and celebrate our wonderful seniors Jasmine Lopez, Apoorva Chintalli, Rebecca Knott, and Tori Wiggins! We cannot wait to see how they continue #empoweringwomentolead and #encouragingtheworldtofollow post graduation! Congratulations on all of your accomplishments! ✨ #KSWELIxUTAustin #kswelinstituteut ... 39 2 kswelinstitute View May 13 Open Hook Em for our Student Council Member Highlight! Priscilla Olivarez shares with us her favorite thing about the KS WELI!🤘💛 "Being able to have a space where I can better my skills while also having fun with designing" What is your favorite thing about the KS WELI? Let us know in the comments ✨ #KSWELIxUTAustin #kswelinstituteut #empoweringwomentolead #encouragingtheworldtofollow ... 27 0 Load More Follow on Instagram About // KS WELI Newsletter Subscribe Give Now UT Austin Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Adobe Reader Facebook Twitter RSS © 2021 | Kendra Scott Women's Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute