Skip to main content Search The University of Kansas Utility Navigation KU navigation menu myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z   Main navigation About KU Academics Admissions Research Student Life Athletics Utility Navigation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z Directory Main navigation KU About KU Academics Admissions Research Student Life Athletics About KU In 1866, the University of Kansas welcomed the first class of 55 students to an unfinished building on a treeless ridge called Mount Oread. Today, our enrollment sits at 28,500. From that single building, we have grown to five campuses — the Lawrence campus, the Edwards Campus in Overland Park, and medical branches in Kansas City, Wichita, and Salina. The once barren landscape has grown into a wooded campus considered one of the most beautiful in the nation. We embrace our role as the state’s flagship university and a premier research institution, serving the state, nation, and world. We celebrate the energy and compassion that infuse the Jayhawk spirit. And we remain true to our historic values: the elevating force of education, the transformative power of research, and the healing power of service. Our Mission Quick Facts Lawrence, Kansas Main campus location 1865 Founded Jayhawk Mascot Crimson and the Blue Alma Mater (and school colors) About Lawrence Lawrence, a progressive city of about 90,000 in northeast Kansas, consistently rates as a Top 10 town for its college life, sports, arts, and live music scene. Explore Lawrence CAMPUSES KU has five campuses and several online programs. LawrenceCampus Kansas CityMedical campus Overland ParkEdwards Campus Other Campuses Wichita medical campus Salina medical campus Online » Leadership Douglas A. Girod Chancellor Barbara A. Bichelmeyer Provost & Executive Vice Chancellor Jeff DeWitt Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice Chancellor for Finance David Cook Vice Chancellor for Public Affairs and Economic Development Robert Simari Executive Vice Chancellor, Medical Center Brian A. White General Counsel and Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs Simon Atkinson Vice Chancellor for Research Give to KU  University of Kansas logo Map of KU 1450 Jayhawk Blvd., Lawrence, KS 66045 Call KU 785-864-2700 KU Facebook KU LinkedIn KU Twitter KU Instagram KU YouTube KU Facebook KU LinkedIn KU Twitter KU Instagram KU YouTube Read about our science-based approach to curbing the spread of the coronavirus on campus. Protect KU Footer Menu Campuses Lawrence Edwards KU Medical Center Wichita Salina Students Tuition Registrar Advising First Year Transcripts Career Planning International Services Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources IT Support Class Rosters News Holiday Schedule Alumni & Friends Alumni Association KU Endowment Explore Campus Map Parking Bus Schedule Memorial Union Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Jobs Events Public Safety Accessibility Free Expression Privacy Policy Consumer Information Mobile Footer Menu Campuses Lawrence Edwards KU Medical Center Wichita Salina Students Tuition Registrar Advising First Year Transcripts Career Planning International Services Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources IT Support Class Rosters News Holiday Schedule Alumni & Friends Alumni Association KU Endowment Explore Campus Map Parking Bus Schedule Memorial Union Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Jobs Events Public Safety Accessibility Free Expression Privacy Policy Consumer Information The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of The Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.