Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student Life Success Afford Select to follow link Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Costs Visit Select to follow link Special Events Group Visits Schools & Spaces Plan Select to follow link College Prep Curriculum Apply Select to follow link Major-Specific Requirements High School Equivalency Exams Need-Based and Military Fee Waivers Credit Transfer Select to follow link Appealing Credit Decisions Credit and Exemption for High School Work Community College Guides Transfer and KU Core Codes Update Your Application Enroll Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Deposit Transfer Enrollment Info for Transfers Students of color Military affiliated students High-achieving students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Visiting KU Visiting KU Watch a whirlwind tour of our beautiful hilltop campus, above. Then go further by scheduling a visit — we’d love to personally share with you why students choose KU. In-person campus visits The best way to experience KU is with a full campus visit. During our Jayhawk Days and Transfer Fridays events, we provide an admissions presentation, campus tour, and the opportunity for you to meet with academic departments and your other areas of interest. Summer visits begin on May 31 and registration is available. If you plan to visit the KU campus before May 31, stop by the KU Visitor Center, 1502 Iowa Street, or email visit@ku.edu and ask about visit options. Jayhawk Days Jayhawk Days Transfer Fridays Transfer Fridays Interactive info sessions General audiences and transfer students can bring their questions and excitement to one of our online events, where we virtually share our campus, its people, and the opportunities that await. Virtual visit options Jayhawk info sessions Transfer info sessions Virtual academic info sessions Use the following pages to find virtual opportunities to connect with representatives in the academic units that interest you. College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Click to expand Virtual Academic Information Sessions Applied Behavioral Science Art History Classics Philosophy Psychology Religious Studies Slavic & Eurasian Languages & Literatures Pre-Professional Virtual Information Sessions Pre-Health Special Virtual Information Sessions Transfer Students Legal Education Accelerated Degree Program (LEAD) Transfers Interested in meeting with our College Outreach team? Let us know! Email Samantha Montague to set up a one-on-one virtual meeting to explore what awaits you as you transfer to and join us the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences. School of Business Click to expand Virtual 1-on-1 Video Chats School of Education & Human Sciences Click to expand Virtual Information Sessions School of Engineering Click to expand Virtual Ambassador Appointments School of Health Professions Click to expand Virtual Information Sessions School of Journalism Click to expand Virtual Information Sessions Virtual Tour School of Music Click to expand Request for Information School of Nursing Click to expand Virtual Information Sessions School of Pharmacy Click to expand Virtual information sessions & one-on-one sessions Virtual tour Request for information School of Social Welfare Click to expand Virtual information sessions University Honors Program Click to expand Visit Options For a comprehensive index of campus units and their contact information, visit our Schools and Spaces page. Visit the Hill from wherever you are. Take a virtual tour of campus or explore KU on YouTube and Instagram. Virtual tour Virtual tour YouTube YouTube Instagram Instagram Get started Ready to apply? We often respond in less than a week to completed applications, which don’t require essays or final transcripts. If you want more information, join our mailing list or contact your admissions rep. Apply Apply Request info Request info Find your rep Find your rep KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 adm@ku.edu 785-864-3911 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Staff Admissions Reps Graduate admissions International admissions Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.