Skip to main content Search The University of Kansas Utility Navigation KU navigation menu myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z   Main navigation About KU Academics Admissions Research Student Life Athletics Utility Navigation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z Directory Main navigation KU About KU Academics Admissions Research Student Life Athletics Your browser does not support HTML5 video. We are a major research university with global reach. The University of Kansas is the state’s flagship university and one of just 65 invited members of the prestigious Association of American Universities (AAU). We consistently earn high rankings for academics and recognition as a premier research university. We push the boundaries of knowledge, transform the academic experience, and create solutions through innovative research. The Jayhawk community extends around the globe, united by more than 150 years of tradition and by our commitment to creating a better world. Request Undergraduate Info Request Graduate Info 14 Academic Schools 350,000+ Alumni Worldwide 400+ Degree and Certificate Programs Every Opportunity Imaginable We have hundreds of fields of study, so you can follow your academic and research interests wherever they lead. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS GRADUATE PROGRAMS Explore Life at KU KU is more than a university. It’s a community. Explore what it means to be a Jayhawk. Student Life When you’re a student at KU, you’re not just on campus. You’re home. Read more about Student Life Research KU research shapes our world and leads in innovation. Discover what sets it apart. Read more about Research Athletics The roar of a crowd. The rise of a chant. Thousands of Jayhawks drawn together by a legacy of athletics. Read more about Athletics Academics You'll find ranked programs, renowned faculty, and research opportunities at the undergraduate and graduate level. Read more about Academics About Lawrence With award-winning restaurants, a vibrant arts and music scene, and a beautiful downtown, Lawrence will become your new favorite town. Read more about About Lawrence Admissions Whether you’re a first-year student, transferring, or exploring options for graduate or international programs, your future at KU starts here. Read more about Admissions Become a Jayhawk Consider this your official invitation to begin. To become. To belong. APPLY TO KU News at KU KU Today keeps you informed of our latest news and events, with in-depth coverage of the research, academic achievements, and policy issues that shape our world. Read KU Today IMPORTANT ACADEMIC DATES MAR 14-20 Spring Break MAY 6 Stop Day (no classes) MAY 9-13 Finals Give to KU  University of Kansas logo Map of KU 1450 Jayhawk Blvd., Lawrence, KS 66045 Call KU 785-864-2700 KU Facebook KU LinkedIn KU Twitter KU Instagram KU YouTube KU Facebook KU LinkedIn KU Twitter KU Instagram KU YouTube Read about our science-based approach to curbing the spread of the coronavirus on campus. Protect KU Footer Menu Campuses Lawrence Edwards KU Medical Center Wichita Salina Students Tuition Registrar Advising First Year Transcripts Career Planning International Services Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources IT Support Class Rosters News Holiday Schedule Alumni & Friends Alumni Association KU Endowment Explore Campus Map Parking Bus Schedule Memorial Union Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Jobs Events Public Safety Accessibility Free Expression Privacy Policy Consumer Information Mobile Footer Menu Campuses Lawrence Edwards KU Medical Center Wichita Salina Students Tuition Registrar Advising First Year Transcripts Career Planning International Services Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources IT Support Class Rosters News Holiday Schedule Alumni & Friends Alumni Association KU Endowment Explore Campus Map Parking Bus Schedule Memorial Union Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Jobs Events Public Safety Accessibility Free Expression Privacy Policy Consumer Information The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of The Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.