Skip to main content Search The University of Kansas Utility Navigation KU navigation menu myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z   Main navigation About KU Academics Admissions Research Student Life Athletics Utility Navigation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z Directory Main navigation KU About KU Academics Admissions Research Student Life Athletics Academics 5,000 courses. More than 400 degree and certificate programs. And 2,800 faculty members, many of them at the top of their fields. In KU’s dynamic, cross-disciplinary research and learning environment, students exchange ideas, discover new ways of processing the world, and address society’s grand challenges. Quick Facts 200+ undergraduate fields of study 40+ languages taught every year 50+ ranked graduate programs Fields of Study Catalog Schools and Departments Schedule of Classes Classroom Experience Think critically Learn from faculty who are experts in their fields. Attend small, interdisciplinary classes. And study in high-tech collaborative spaces. Undergraduate Research Research your subject The Center for Undergraduate Research supports mentorship programs and opportunities to begin research or creative projects as early as your freshman year. Explore your opportunities Graduate Programs Go beyond Pursue a graduate degree on the Lawrence campus, at the KU Medical Center in Kansas City or the Edwards Campus in Overland Park — or with online and distance programs. Pursue a graduate degree Certificate Programs Gain firsthand experience Take what you learn in the classroom and use it in the real world. An experiential learning certificate on your transcript highlights your experience. Earn a learning certificate Study Abroad Expand your worldview The University of Kansas cultivates global citizens. For many Jayhawks, this means exploring the world through study abroad. Start your international experience 29% of KU undergraduates study abroad 160 programs in 50+ countries $200k in study abroad scholarships awarded every year Give to KU  University of Kansas logo Map of KU 1450 Jayhawk Blvd., Lawrence, KS 66045 Call KU 785-864-2700 KU Facebook KU LinkedIn KU Twitter KU Instagram KU YouTube KU Facebook KU LinkedIn KU Twitter KU Instagram KU YouTube Read about our science-based approach to curbing the spread of the coronavirus on campus. Protect KU Footer Menu Campuses Lawrence Edwards KU Medical Center Wichita Salina Students Tuition Registrar Advising First Year Transcripts Career Planning International Services Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources IT Support Class Rosters News Holiday Schedule Alumni & Friends Alumni Association KU Endowment Explore Campus Map Parking Bus Schedule Memorial Union Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Jobs Events Public Safety Accessibility Free Expression Privacy Policy Consumer Information Mobile Footer Menu Campuses Lawrence Edwards KU Medical Center Wichita Salina Students Tuition Registrar Advising First Year Transcripts Career Planning International Services Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources IT Support Class Rosters News Holiday Schedule Alumni & Friends Alumni Association KU Endowment Explore Campus Map Parking Bus Schedule Memorial Union Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Jobs Events Public Safety Accessibility Free Expression Privacy Policy Consumer Information The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of The Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.