Skip to main content Search The University of Kansas Utility Navigation KU navigation menu myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z   Main navigation About KU Academics Admissions Research Student Life Athletics Utility Navigation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z Directory Main navigation KU About KU Academics Admissions Research Student Life Athletics Student Life As students, we shine. As Jayhawks, we rise. Life on campus is more than academics. At KU, you will contribute to the tradition of artists, leaders, and innovators who inspire us — and you'll reflect the inclusivity and ambition at the heart of our legacy. And sometimes, you'll just have fun. Quick Facts 600+ student organizations 25 campus housing sites for KU students 80,000+ hours of community service performed by students last year Housing Dining Health Services Campus Safety Get Involved Each year, KU students create hundreds of clubs and organize hundreds of events. When you’re a Jayhawk, life is defined by a culture of collaboration. Clubs & Organizations Events Recreation The KU Fan Experience To experience KU fandom is to experience KU history. From the roar of Allen Fieldhouse to the haunting call of our Rock Chalk Chant as it rises over campus, you don’t just witness Jayhawk spirit — you feel it. KU Athletics KU Community We believe in building a community of Jayhawks, and that begins with student involvement and leadership on campus. Volunteer Diversity Leadership Sorority & Fraternity Life More to Explore Take a walk down the Hill — or take the bus — and you’re downtown in Lawrence, a progressive city at the intersection of culture, art, food, and shopping. About Lawrence #Explore KU Give to KU  University of Kansas logo Map of KU 1450 Jayhawk Blvd., Lawrence, KS 66045 Call KU 785-864-2700 KU Facebook KU LinkedIn KU Twitter KU Instagram KU YouTube KU Facebook KU LinkedIn KU Twitter KU Instagram KU YouTube Read about our science-based approach to curbing the spread of the coronavirus on campus. Protect KU Footer Menu Campuses Lawrence Edwards KU Medical Center Wichita Salina Students Tuition Registrar Advising First Year Transcripts Career Planning International Services Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources IT Support Class Rosters News Holiday Schedule Alumni & Friends Alumni Association KU Endowment Explore Campus Map Parking Bus Schedule Memorial Union Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Jobs Events Public Safety Accessibility Free Expression Privacy Policy Consumer Information Mobile Footer Menu Campuses Lawrence Edwards KU Medical Center Wichita Salina Students Tuition Registrar Advising First Year Transcripts Career Planning International Services Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources IT Support Class Rosters News Holiday Schedule Alumni & Friends Alumni Association KU Endowment Explore Campus Map Parking Bus Schedule Memorial Union Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Jobs Events Public Safety Accessibility Free Expression Privacy Policy Consumer Information The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of The Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.