Skip to main content Search The University of Kansas Utility Navigation KU navigation menu myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z   Main navigation About KU Academics Admissions Research Student Life Athletics Utility Navigation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z Directory Main navigation KU About KU Academics Admissions Research Student Life Athletics About Lawrence Founded by abolitionists in 1854, Lawrence, Kansas, has carried that tradition of freedom and individuality through the generations. Today, Lawrence remains a crossroads of culture, celebrating the artists and innovators that populate its history and create an unmistakable identity. Start on Mount Oread, where you’ll encounter a campus resonating with excitement. Walk down the Hill and mingle with the crowds of locals and visitors bustling through downtown Massachusetts Street. Broaden your reach and explore the open air and outdoor activities within the city limits — and beyond. That's Lawrence. Experience it with us. Quick Facts 90,000+ Lawrence population 100+ Miles of trails and paths 54 City parks 30+ Music venues Lawrence Life Rollicking corner performances and live music venues. Eclectic, locally owned shops. Buzzing al fresco lunch spots. Celebrated art spaces. You're home. Unmistakably Lawrence SHOP, SEE, EAT, STAY Lawrence Public Library READ, LISTEN, MEET, LEARN Lawrence Arts Center GALLERIES, PERFORMANCES, CLASSES Culture On the Hill Whether you're catching a live show or checking out the latest student exhibition, it's clear that at KU, we embrace culture that promises to leave a mark on the world. Lied Center of Kansas World-class performances, community engagement Spencer Museum of Art More than 45,000 objects in collection Natural History Museum Millions of specimens and archaeological artifacts Get out and explore Breathe the air, climb the hills, gaze at the stars. Go beyond the city life and see why Lawrence is a favorite among people looking to get out and get active. Rock Chalk Park Sports Pavilion Clinton Lake Fishing, boating, relaxation Parks & trails Bike, jog, picnic Getting Around In Lawrence, you’re never far from your destination. Our bus system can you get you almost anywhere in town, and we’re just a 45-minute drive to Kansas City International Airport. Lawrence Transit KCI Airport &amp;lt;/div&amp;gt; Give to KU  University of Kansas logo Map of KU 1450 Jayhawk Blvd., Lawrence, KS 66045 Call KU 785-864-2700 KU Facebook KU LinkedIn KU Twitter KU Instagram KU YouTube KU Facebook KU LinkedIn KU Twitter KU Instagram KU YouTube Read about our science-based approach to curbing the spread of the coronavirus on campus. Protect KU Footer Menu Campuses Lawrence Edwards KU Medical Center Wichita Salina Students Tuition Registrar Advising First Year Transcripts Career Planning International Services Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources IT Support Class Rosters News Holiday Schedule Alumni & Friends Alumni Association KU Endowment Explore Campus Map Parking Bus Schedule Memorial Union Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Jobs Events Public Safety Accessibility Free Expression Privacy Policy Consumer Information Mobile Footer Menu Campuses Lawrence Edwards KU Medical Center Wichita Salina Students Tuition Registrar Advising First Year Transcripts Career Planning International Services Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources IT Support Class Rosters News Holiday Schedule Alumni & Friends Alumni Association KU Endowment Explore Campus Map Parking Bus Schedule Memorial Union Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Jobs Events Public Safety Accessibility Free Expression Privacy Policy Consumer Information The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of The Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.