Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU History Building Community through Shared History - A KU Memorial Union Program Search form Search Home About Mission History Timeline Stories Athletics Events KU Life People Places Visit Kansas Union DeBruce Center Eat Shop Tours & Talks More Campus Exhibits People Staff Resources Artifact Donation Share Your Story Research Requests Other History Resources Menu Home About Mission History Timeline Stories Athletics Events KU Life People Places Visit Kansas Union DeBruce Center Eat Shop Tours & Talks More Campus Exhibits People Staff Resources Artifact Donation Share Your Story Research Requests Other History Resources Search Search form Search This Week in KU History Saturday, May 23, 1908 Fete Accompli First “May Fete” becomes the official substitute for the banned Maypole Scraps. Thursday, May 24, 2012 We Remember On this Memorial Day weekend we recall the students & alumni who died for our country. KU's campus war memorials date back to the 1920s when the Memorial Corporation was formed to construct Memorial Stadium and the Memorial Union in tribute to Jayhawks who died during WWI. Sunday, May 25, 1986 "Separating The War From The Warriors" KU dedicates its Vietnam Memorial in Marvin Grove, becoming the first university in the country to build such a monument. Thursday, May 25, 2017 New Leadership The Kansas Board of Regents announces the appointment of Dr. Douglas A. Girod as the 18th chancellor of the University of Kansas. Girod was previously executive vice chancellor of the University of Kansas Medical Center. Monday, May 26, 1913 Is There A Doctor in the House? Dan Dahlene, a contractor, lost his hand and received numerous injuries due to an explosion of a stick of dynamite while performing construction of the basement of Strong Hall. He was carried to Robinson Gymnasium where Dr. James Naismith and Professor C.H. Root administered first aid until a doctor and an ambulance arrived. 100 Years of the Memorial Union - A Timeline This online exhibit provides a pictorial timeline of the KU Memorial Union, as it celebrates its centennial. Search KU History Plan Your VISIT Full KU TIMELINE KU Today Give to KU » Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Contact KU History kuhistory@ku.edu 785-864-4651 Routes 10 11 29 30 36 38 43 Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 The University of Kansas Non-Discrimination Statement Information regarding non-discrimination and equal opportunity at the University of Kansas may be found by clicking here. Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login