Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts and Sciences School of Public Affairs and Administration myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Urban Planning Contact Us Events News Undergraduate Degrees Select to follow link Law & Society Select to follow link Law & Society Bachelor's Degree Options Minor in Law & Society Public Administration Select to follow link Minor in Public Administration Public Administration Bachelor's Degree Options Urban Planning Select to follow link Master of Urban Planning Accelerated Degrees Select to follow link How to Apply - MUP Accelerated Degrees Urban Planning Undergraduate Courses Graduate Programs Select to follow link Master of Public Administration Select to follow link How to Apply - MPA MPA Curriculum Careers Master of Urban Planning Select to follow link How to Apply - MUP MUP Curriculum Careers MPA City Management Fellowship Select to follow link How to Apply - MPA Fellows Fellows Curriculum Fellows Profiles Ph.D. in Public Administration Select to follow link How To Apply - Ph.D. Ph.D. Funding Dual Degrees Select to follow link How to Apply - Dual Degrees Graduate Certificates Select to follow link City & County Management Certificate Law & Society Certificate Performance Management Certificate Public Policy Certificate Public/Nonprofit Management Certificate Urban Planning Certificate What Can I Do With This Degree? Professional Development People Select to follow link Faculty Staff Ph.D. Students Alumni & Friends Select to follow link KUCIMATS Select to follow link KUCIMAT Board KUCIMAT Awards Select to follow link Edwin O. Stene Award for Managerial Excellence KUCIMAT Award for Intern Excellence KUCIMAT Award for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion KUCIMAT Lifetime Achievement Award Dena Laurent Sorenson Profile in Courage Award Alumni Connections Urban Planning Advisory Board Alumni Spotlights Give Select to follow link Give to SPAA Give to Urban Planning Give to KUCIMAT Support Fund Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts and Sciences School of Public Affairs and Administration Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Graduate Programs Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificates are a way to delve into specialized areas of public administration and urban planning. They are structured to provide a condensed version of the specific skills and knowledge to advance in particular professional fields. By successfully completing a prescribed group of courses encompassing twelve credit hours, you can earn a graduate certificate. Courses taken in a graduate certificate program and recognition of the earned certificate will be posted on your transcript. Graduate certificates may have additional prerequisites and admission restrictions. Certificate Programs There are currently six graduate certificate programs offered: City & County Management Law & Society Performance Management Public/Non-profit Management Public Policy Urban Planning Admission Requirements The School of Public Affairs and Administration accepts students on a rolling admissions basis. Students may apply to be admitted for either the fall, summer or spring semesters. Applicants for the certificate are required to have: Undergraduate degree with a GPA of 3.0 (if the undergraduate degree was awarded in the last three years). Experience or student status that meets any of the following: at least three years of managerial experience; or be already admitted to any graduate programs at KU; or already have a graduate management or leadership degree from an accredited institution. Non-native speakers of English must meet the University's English proficiency requirements. Application Requirements All graduate students and applicants must complete an application to Graduate Studies for admission into the certificate program and submit an application fee along with the following materials: A current resume. A statement of interest in the graduate certificate program. This 1-2 page narrative should summarize your education, employment history, career goals, and how the certificate will bolster your professional aspirations. Official transcripts of baccalaureate degree/s and any post-baccalaureate course work. The admissions committee may request additional materials if needed to assess an applicant’s ability to be successful in the coursework. Certificate Application Deadlines Spring Admission: January 1 Summer Admission: May 1 Fall Admission: August 1 Learn More KU Graduate Admissions Learn About Certificates in the MPA Curriculum Learn About Certificates in the MUP Curriculum Professional Program Careers Graduate Certificates FAQs Are certificates eligible for financial aid? Click to expand A SPAA certificate completed by itself, outside a full graduate degree program is not eligible for federal financial aid or VA benefit support. If you are enrolled in a graduate degree program at the University of Kansas, courses completed in the certificates are eligible for financial aid. Can I complete a certificate within one semester? Click to expand It is highly unlikely that all the courses needed to complete a certificate will be offered within a given semester. Certificates can traditionally completed within an academic year. Can I substitute a course in the certificate requirements? Click to expand The required courses listed for each certificate must be completed. Elective courses may be substituted with the approval of the MPA Faculty Director. Do the required courses in certificates run every year? Click to expand The required courses for our more popular certificates are offered every year, alternating campus locations and course delivery formats - City & County Management, Public/Nonprofit Management, Public Policy, and Urban Planning. The Law & Society and Performance Management certificate required courses alternate years in required course offerings. Can a SPAA certificate count toward the MPA or MUP even if I don't apply for the full degree until after the certificate is complete? Click to expand Yes! Connect with Us Meet with the MPA Program Manager Meet with the MPA Program Manager Request more information Request more information Questions? - MPA Program Details/Application Process Cari Ann Kreienhop, MPA Program Manager cak@ku.edu 785-864-3665 Issues Submitting Application KU Graduate Studies graduateadm@ku.edu 785-864-3140 Questions? - MUP Program MUP Program and Application Questions Bonnie Johnson, Urban Planning Program ubpl@ku.edu 785-864-4184 Issues Submitting Application KU Graduate Studies graduateadm@ku.edu 785-864-3140 Wescoe Hall, Room 4060 1445 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 padept@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin KU College of Liberal Arts & Sciences KU Edwards Campus Donate Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.