Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts and Sciences School of Public Affairs and Administration myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Urban Planning Contact Us Events News Undergraduate Degrees Select to follow link Law & Society Select to follow link Law & Society Bachelor's Degree Options Minor in Law & Society Public Administration Select to follow link Minor in Public Administration Public Administration Bachelor's Degree Options Urban Planning Select to follow link Master of Urban Planning Accelerated Degrees Select to follow link How to Apply - MUP Accelerated Degrees Urban Planning Undergraduate Courses Graduate Programs Select to follow link Master of Public Administration Select to follow link How to Apply - MPA MPA Curriculum Careers Master of Urban Planning Select to follow link How to Apply - MUP MUP Curriculum Careers MPA City Management Fellowship Select to follow link How to Apply - MPA Fellows Fellows Curriculum Fellows Profiles Ph.D. in Public Administration Select to follow link How To Apply - Ph.D. Ph.D. Funding Dual Degrees Select to follow link How to Apply - Dual Degrees Graduate Certificates Select to follow link City & County Management Certificate Law & Society Certificate Performance Management Certificate Public Policy Certificate Public/Nonprofit Management Certificate Urban Planning Certificate What Can I Do With This Degree? Professional Development People Select to follow link Faculty Staff Ph.D. Students Alumni & Friends Select to follow link KUCIMATS Select to follow link KUCIMAT Board KUCIMAT Awards Select to follow link Edwin O. Stene Award for Managerial Excellence KUCIMAT Award for Intern Excellence KUCIMAT Award for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion KUCIMAT Lifetime Achievement Award Dena Laurent Sorenson Profile in Courage Award Alumni Connections Urban Planning Advisory Board Alumni Spotlights Give Select to follow link Give to SPAA Give to Urban Planning Give to KUCIMAT Support Fund Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts and Sciences School of Public Affairs and Administration Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search University of Kansas School of Public Affairs & Administration The mission of the School of Public Affairs and Administration at the University of Kansas is to educate exceptional leaders for public service who provide solutions to the most pressing community challenges at all levels of governance. With roots in local government management and urban policy, we advance the public good, democratic values, and ethical public management practices. Undergraduate Programs We offer bachelor's degrees in public administration or law and society, and minors in each. Most coursework is completed at the KU Edwards Campus. About Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Some of the most versatile advanced degrees on the market, we offer master's degrees in public administration or urban planning, a fellowship in local government management, and a doctorate in public administration. About Graduate Programs Professional Development Programs Explore the professional development opportunities offered by the KU Public Management Center, the professional development arm of the School of Public Affairs and Administration. Professional Development Programs at the KU Public Management Center Why KU's School of Public Affairs and Administration? #1 In Local Government Management by US News and World Report since 1998 #11 In Public Management and Leadership by US News and World Report #25 Top 25 overall best Public Affairs programs in the country by US News and World Report 100% Placement rate within 6 months of graduation. What Can I Do With This Degree? What doors open for you with one of our degrees? Read about making a difference with a bachelor's, master's, or Ph.D. degree from our program. Alumni Spotlights Latest News Thu, 08/11/22 SPAA welcomes Professor Hye-Sung Han to Faculty LAWRENCE — The School of Public Affairs and Administration is delighted to welcome assistant professor Hye-Sung Han to the faculty. Wed, 06/05/19 Study finds proximity to employment not as important as previously thought in federal housing programs LAWRENCE — For decades, the federal government has used housing vouchers as part of a strategy to help low-income Americans obtain affordable housing as a way out of poverty. See all news Upcoming Events See all events Wescoe Hall, Room 4060 1445 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 padept@ku.edu 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin KU College of Liberal Arts & Sciences KU Edwards Campus Donate Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.