Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Political Science myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Why Study Political Science? Contact Annual News, Political Science Our History Academics Select to follow link B.A./B.G.S., Minors M.A., Ph.D. Washington D.C. and Topeka Internships Study Abroad » Admission Select to follow link Admissions Research Select to follow link Faculty Research Recent Faculty Publications People Select to follow link Political Science Department Directory Faculty Staff Graduate Students Hire A Ph.D. Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Graduate Student Alum Support KUPS Resources Select to follow link Undergraduate Student Resources Graduate Student Resources Misc. Resources Info for Current Students Visit campus Grad Alumni Give to the Department myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Political Science Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Welcome to KU Political Science Political science advances our understanding of politics, power, governance, and public policy in the United States and across the globe. Why should you choose political science? Almost every part of your life is affected by politics and public policy. Studying political science at KU provides a strong foundation for a professional and academic future. Why Political Science Political Science Programs Undergraduate With a B.A., BGS, and three minors, our degree options provide a strong foundation for professional and academic futures. Learn More Graduate Continue your political science research at KU. Learn More Internship Programs & Study Abroad Take your learning to the next level with internship and study abroad opportunities Learn More Swipe to see more Intelligence Intelligence & National Security Studies, Certificate or Minor! ICCAE students have awareness of, and preparation for entering, intelligence careers. See More Information Department Partnerships Center for Service Learning Fort Leavenworth Dole institute of Politics Intelligence Community Center for Academic Excellence Study Abroad and Global Engagement Admissions Meet with an Advisor Recent Faculty Publications Our People Contact Us Give to the Department On the Market Ph.D. candidates on the job market Take a look... Hire a PhD! Faculty Initiatives University of Kansas Representation Initiative (KUREP) University of Kansas Representation Initiative (KUREP) Anti Slavery & Human Trafficking Initiative (ASHTI) Anti Slavery & Human Trafficking Initiative (ASHTI) Faculty Blogs Advancing Pluralism - Paul Schumaker Advancing Pluralism - Paul Schumaker Protest and Coercion Data - Ron Francisco Protest and Coercion Data - Ron Francisco Consider the Politics - Mark Joslyn Consider the Politics - Mark Joslyn See our events and news on our social media! FacebookInstagramTwitterYouTubeLinkedIn Political Science Department Events William Hatungimana Dissertation Defense The Blurred Eyes that Perceive Immigrants: Investigating Attitudes towards Immigrants in Africa Friday, June 10 at 2 PM, Virtual Holly Rains Dissertation Defense Networks of Terror: The Role of Relationships in Insurgent Human Trafficking Tuesday, June 7 at 11 AM, Virtual Patrick Gauding Dissertation Defense The Politics of Criminal Diversion Programs Tuesday, June 14 at 1 PM, Virtual Blake Hall, 504 1541 Lilac Lane Lawrence, Kansas 66045 kupols@ku.edu 785-864-3523 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Contact Us Undergrad Graduate Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.