Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Program in Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Contact Us Latin.American.Latino.and.Caribbean.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Back to Top Nav Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Share Foreign Studies Scene from Havana Scene from Havana Scene from Havana PreviousNext LALACS Cuba Exchange Program Through the CASA Cuba Exchange, Dartmouth students will be able to enroll in a 15-week, semester length program based in Havana. Complete information on the program is available here: https://casa.education/havana CASA Cuba's principle institutional partners at this time are the Casa de Las Americas and the University of Havana. Courses are taught in Spanish—students select four courses offered through the Cuba study center by Casa de Las Americas OR a combination of courses offered through the Cuba Study center and direct-enrollment courses offered through the University of Havana. At the University of Havana, students will be able to choose from courses in literature, the arts, Afro-Caribbean studies and music through the University of Havana's Faculty of Arts and Letters, or courses in Cuban history, philosophy and religion, political sociology, and Latin American thought through the Faculty of Philosophy and History. Students can receive LALACS credit for up to three courses from the CASA Cuba Exchange Program for the LALACS major or minor. Applications for the program are due by February 1 to the Guarini Institute for International Education. For further information contact Professor Lisa Baldez, Guarini Institute for International Education or Laurie Furch, the Program Administrator at LALACS. General Information Students applying for this exchange must be in good academic standing and judicial standing. Students must be fluent in Spanish as all classes will be conducted in Spanish. Applicants must also demonstrate an interest in Cuba, preferably, by completing coursework pertaining to the region. Dartmouth has worked with our consortium partners in the U.S. to develop a program of study that will challenge students to achieve a critical understanding of the key issues facing Cuba today and enable students to interact with some of the country's leading academic experts in the social sciences, arts, and the humanities. Students will enroll in a program of study that will consist of four credit-bearing courses, each of which meet for a total of 60 hours. Students must complete the course requirements with a grade of "C" or higher. Students are expected to attend classes regularly, participate in group discussions, and keep up with all assignments and required readings. Students may choose from courses offered at Casa de las Américas OR a combination of courses at Casa de las Américas and direct-enrollment courses through the University of Havana. At the University of Havana, students will be able to choose from courses in literature, the arts, Afro-Caribbean studies and music at the University of Havana's Faculty of Arts and Letters, or courses in Cuban history, philosophy and religion, political sociology, and Latin American thought through the Faculty of Philosophy and History. Students participating in the Fall Semester depart for a three-day orientation in Miami in late August and then are in Cuba until mid-December. Students who participate in the Spring Semester depart for a three-day orientation in Miami in late January and are in Cuba until mid-May. Because the spring program bridges the Winter and Spring terms at Dartmouth, students participating in the program in the Spring will get credit for one term at Dartmouth and then take their off term in Cuba. Student Life Students share living accommodations in a safe, clean, and secure guest residence located within a short walking distance from the program headquarters at Casa de las Américas. Each residence is staffed 24 hours a day by a residence manager. Breakfast, dinner, and bottled water will be provided to students each day. Students will have access to a washing machine and other basic amenities. The students will be required to sign a written code of conduct for the use of the residence and, as part of the on-site orientation, will be provided with clear instruction as to the importance of adhering to Cuban cultural and societal norms and to strictly abide by any and all Cuban policies governing their conduct as visitors to Cuba. Students will not be allowed to secure independent housing. In addition to the academic program, students will participate in special topics-based lectures, exhibitions, recitals, and local field visits to expose students to the tremendous cultural mosaic of the country. Students will not be permitted to participate in the program without valid U.S. health insurance. Students will either need to demonstrate that they have health insurance independently or purchase continuing coverage through Dartmouth. Tuition and Fees Dartmouth students pay tuition and service fees to Dartmouth; room and board fees as well as transportation to and from the program site are the responsibility of the student. Because the exchange is an official program sponsored by the College, Dartmouth students do not need to pay the transfer term fee that the College charges to students who study on outside programs during leave terms. Financial Aid Financial aid is available for official exchange programs arranged through the College. Financial aid awards are adjusted to reflect the actual cost of the exchange term. However, students will receive no more scholarship assistance than they would have received for a term at Dartmouth. Any extra costs associated with the program will be covered by additional loan assistance. Financing Your Program Fall Budget Sheet for Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad: Cuba Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback