Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Program in Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Contact Us Latin.American.Latino.and.Caribbean.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Back to Top Nav Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Share César Chávez Fellowship Recipients 1994-2020 César Chávez Fellowships 1994-2020 Joanthan Cortez (2020) Brown University. Christine Castro (2019) PhD candidate, University of Texas, Austin. Mark Ocegueda (2019) Professor, California State University-Sacramento. PhD Univerity of California-Irvine. Orquidea Morales (2018) Assistant Professor, American Studies/Media & Communications, SUNY Old Westbury. PhD University of Michigan-Ann Arbor. Evelyn Soto (2018) Assistant Professor, Sam Houston State University. PhD University of Pennsylvania. Vanessa J. Diaz (2017) Assistant Professor of Chicana/o and Latina/o Studies, Loyola Marymount University. PhD University of Michigan. Elias D. Krell (2016) Assistant Professor of Women's Studies, Vassar College. PhD Northwestern University. Almita Miranda (2015) Professor, Chican@ and Latin@ Studies and Geography, Anthropology affilitate, University of Wisconsin-Madison. PhD Northwestern University Charlene Cruz Cerdas (2014) Faculty Fellow, NYU School of Culture, Education and Human Development. PhD University of Pennsylvania. Jessica De La Ossa (2013) PhD candidate in the School of Geography and Development at the University of Arizona. Ariana Ochoa Camacho (2012) PhD candidate in the American Studies Program at New York University in the Department of Social and Cultural Analysis. Christopher Loperena (2011) Assistant Professor, CUNY. PhD University of Texas, Austin in the African Diaspora Program. Robb Hernandez (2010) Currently a post-doctoral fellow at Center for Mexican American Studies, Univ. of Texas, Austin. PhD American Studies, University of Maryland, College Park. Graciela Monteagudo (2011) Currently the Associate Director for Social Thought and Political Economy at the Univ. of Massachusetts, Amherst. PhD in Anthropology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Albert Sergio Laguna (2008) PhD Assistant Professor of Ethnicity, Race & Migration and American Studies, Yale University. Rocío Magaña (2007) Assistant Professor of Anthropology, Rutgers University. Patricia Herrera (2006) Assistant Professor of Theater, University of Richmond. PhD in Theater, City University of New York Ph.D. in Anthropology, University of Chicago. William Orchard (2005) Instructor of English, North Central College, IL. ABD in English, University of Chicago. Rebecca Gordon (2004) Assistant Professor of English and Humanities, Reed College. PhD in English and American Studies, Indiana University. Lourdes Gutiérrez-Nájera (2003) Assistant Professor, Western Washington University. PhD in Anthropology and Social Work, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Roberto Tejada (2002) Associate Professor of Art and Art History, University of Texas, Austin. PhD in English, State University of New York, Buffalo. Mark Overmyer-Velazquez (2001) Associate Professor of History and Director of the Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies, University of Connecticut. PhD in Latin American History, Yale University. Emiliano Corral (2000) PhD in History from the University of Chicago; JD from the University of North Carolina School of Law. Alma Martinez (1999) Assistant Professor of Theater and Dance, Pomona College. PhD in Drama, Stanford University. Carlos Martin (1998) Senior Fellow, Urban Institute. PhD in Civil and Environmental Engineering, Stanford University. Gaston Espinosa (1997) Associate Professor of Religious Studies, Claremont McKenna College. PhD in History, University of California, Santa Barbara. Edmund Campos (1996) Visiting Assistant Professor of English, Northwestern University. PhD in Comparative Literature, Stanford University. Nancy Mirabal (1995) Associate Professor of Raza Studies, San Francisco State University. PhD in History, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Tiffany López (1994) Associate Professor of English, University of California, Riverside. PhD in English, University of California, Santa Barbara. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback