Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Program in Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Contact Us Latin.American.Latino.and.Caribbean.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Back to Top Nav Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Share Casa Cuba FAQs The CASA Cuba Program offers students with a unique opportunity to have direct access to Cuba’s leading institution of higher learning, the University of Havana, and to Casa de las Américas, the Cuban government’s premier research institution since its founding in 1959. Complete information is available here: http://lahabana.casa.education/. Contact Professor Lisa Baldez, the Dartmouth faculty director, with any questions. CASA Cuba 2021-22 COVID update Please note, to allow for more flexibility in light of continually changing circumstances the Guarini Institute has extended the application deadline for all off-campus programs scheduled for 2021X-2022S. To learn more about program offerings available for the upcoming year and to apply please visit: dartgo.org/ocp. Requirements? The main requirement is fluency in Spanish. Non-native speakers must have completed Spanish 20 or the equivalent. When Can I Go? The program runs twice a year for 15 weeks: late August to mid-December, and mid-January to mid-May. The CASA program doesn’t overlap perfectly with Dartmouth terms; how does that work? Fall term: students are required to leave for Havana a few days before the end of the summer term at Dartmouth. Students who go in the fall are generally “on” during sophomore summer and have to make arrangements to complete their coursework before they leave. If you go in January, you will have to take one term “on” and one term “off.” What Courses can I take? Dartmouth students take courses at the CASA headquarters in Havana and at the University of Havana; most students opt to take a mix. You can access course descriptions and syllabi at https://www.brown.edu/academics/college/special-programs/international-study/pinpoint-your-program/location/brown-cuba (Scroll down to “Related Files” at the bottom). The program also includes a week-long trip to Santiago de Cuba mid-semester and 2 weekend excursions. How many students go on this program? About 25-30 students participate in the program each term from a consortium of universities that includes Dartmouth as well as Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, Johns Hopkins, Northwestern, Trinity College Dublin, Penn, the University of Melbourne, and Vanderbilt. Where will i live? Students live together in apartments or with Cuban families; breakfast and dinner are provided. Who oversees the program in Havana? A Program Director and Associate Director oversee the program onsite. How do I receive credits for this? When you return from Cuba, submit Transfer Credit Approval (Form 2) and the syllabi for the courses you took in Cuba to registrar@dartmouth.edu. The credits for the courses you take in Cuba will not automatically show up on your Dartmouth transcript; you need to apply for transfer credits. Students may transfer up to a total of four credits to Dartmouth throughout their academic career. After you have completed your term in Cuba, CASA Cuba will send the official transcripts for your courses to the Dartmouth Registrar's Office, and they will record the credits on your Dartmouth transcript. They often send them several months after your return and the Registrar's Office will inform you once the credits are posted. You will get a letter grade from your Cuban professors, but Dartmouth records all transfer credits as TR, and these grades do not factor into your Dartmouth GPA. Transfer credits can, however, be used for distributive and world culture credit at Dartmouth, if approved by the relevant department or program. Which departments or programs accept transfer credits for courses on this program? LALACS will approve transfer credit for all courses that you take in Cuba. The Department of Spanish and Portuguese will give credit for up to one course to Spanish Minors, and up to two courses for Spanish Majors. The Government Department will approve credit for US-Cuba Relations, upon completion of additional reading and an additional five-page paper. The History Department will give credit for La Esclavitud, upon completion of the oral final for the course and the final paper, which must be 10 pages. (Note: The course's syllabus allows students to do either an oral final or a paper of up to 10 pages.) The 10-page paper must be reviewed by Dartmouth faculty. You should submit a copy to the HIST Department vice-chair as well as to your professor in Cuba. Comparative Literature will grant credit toward the major/minor for the course, Hispanoamerican Voices of the 21st Century. To request approval from other departments or programs, submit the syllabus and the program information packet from CASA. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback