Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies About the banner image Program in Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Contact Us Latin.American.Latino.and.Caribbean.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Back to Top Nav Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Cuellar interviewed in The Border Chronicle Todd Miller from The Border Chronicle speaks with Jorge Cuellar Dissertation Awards for Ramirez-Lopez LALACS congratulates Society of Fellows member Jorge Ramirez-Lopez who has received several awards for his completed dissertation. César Chávez Fellow Melanie Plasencia in Generations Today "Immigration status plays a significant role in how one navigates old age," says Melanie Plasencia Cesar Chavez Fellow in Generations Today. Professor Garcia Appointed to Advisory Committee for the National Museum of the American Latino Professor Matthew Garcia has been appointed to the advisory committee for the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Latino. An Evening with Nikole Hannah-Jones and the 1619 Project Today Nikole Hannah-Jones is the Pulitzer Prize-winning creator of the 1619 Project and a staff writer at The New York Times Magazine. She has spent her career investigating racial inequality and injustice, and her reporting has earned her numerous awards. Professor Bethany Moreton in The Washington Post and Boston Review Read Professor Moreton's article "The bond that explains why some on the Christian right support Putin's war" in The Washington Post, and "The U.S. Christians Who Pray for Putin" in the Boston Review. Casteñeda to attend Mamolean Dissertion Workshop Vanessa Castañeda, Ph.D. Mary Coffey on Orozco's American Epic Professor of Art History Mary Coffey says the Orozco mural "connects students to place and it connects them to a world beyond this place...It brings them back and it pushes them forward." Migrant Lives and Labor Mural at the Organic Farm Students created a visual representation of themes from their class. In Support of DACA and the 'Dreamers' President Hanlon addresses the Texas federal court ruling on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). Recent Publications view all I don't have much money, but I have a lot of friends': How Poor Older Latinos Find Tangible Support in Peer Friendship Networks Melanie Plasencia Social Problems Vital Minimums: El Salvador Between Youth and Old Age Jorge E. Cuéllar Latino Studies 19, Dec. 2021 How to Write a Winning Grant Appplication Melanie Plasencia Inside Higher Ed "Memory in Motion: UrbanTheater Company's Back in the Day and the Chicago Latinx Dance Crews of the 1980s." Israel Reyes Latin American Theatre Review, vol. 55 no. 1, 2021. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback