Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Program in Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Contact Us Latin.American.Latino.and.Caribbean.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Back to Top Nav Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Israel Reyes Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Spanish and Portuguese Director of Fellowships, Office of the Provost Israel Reyes is an Associate Professor of Spanish and Portuguese at Dartmouth College, the former Chair of the Latin American, Latino, and Caribbean Studies Program, and holds an Adjunct Appointment with the Comparative Literature Program. He also serves as the Director of Fellowships in the Office of the Provost and organizes mentoring and professional development for a cohort of pre- and postdoctoral fellows. Professor Reyes teaches and conducts research on Latin American, Puerto Rican, and US Latinx literature and culture. He received his BA in Creative Writing and English from the University of Illinois-Chicago and his Ph.D. in Comparative Literature from the University of Iowa. His publications include his 2005 book, Humor and the Eccentric Text in Puerto Rican Literature, published by University Press of Florida, and scholarly articles on Judith Ortiz Cofer, Lalo Alcaraz, Nemesio Canales, Cristina García, Ana Lydia Vega, and Manuel Ramos Otero. He is currently finishing a book manuscript titled Embodied Economies: Diaspora and Transcultural Capital in Hispanic Caribbean Fiction and Theater, which examines upward mobility and the material and bodily practices that emerge as part of the diasporic experience. Personal Website Contact Israel.Reyes@Dartmouth.EDU 6-3246 318 Dartmouth Hall HB 6072 Department(s) Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies, Spanish and Portuguese, Comparative Literature Education B.A. University of Illinois at Chicago M.A. University of Iowa Ph.D. University of Iowa Areas of Expertise Latinx Studies /Latin American and Caribbean Studies /Puerto Rican Literature and Culture /Gay and Lesbian/Queer Studies /Comparative Literature /Women and Gender Studies /Media Studies Selected Publications Book: Humor and the Eccentric Text in Puerto Rican Literature. Gainesville: University Press of Florida, 2005. "Memory and Culinary Nostalgia in Cuban American Performance and Memoir." Des/memorias: Culturas y prácticas mnemónicas en América Latina y el Caribe. Eds. Adriana López-Labourdette, Silvia Spitta, and Valeria Wagner. Barcelona: Linkgua (2016): 193-212. "Politics of Humor." Encyclopedia of Latinas and Latinos in Contemporary Politics, Law, and Social Movements. Eds. Deena J. González and Susanne Oboler. Oxford: Oxford University Press. (2015) "Barrio, Body, Beat: Tato Laviera and the Holistic Rhythm of Mestizaje." The AmeRican Poet: Essays on the Work of Tato Laviera. Eds. Stephanie Alvarez and William Luis. New York: Center for Puerto Rican Studies, 2014. 184-96. “La frontera que embizca: Las caricaturas políticas de Lalo Alcaraz” Revista Iberoamericana. 57.234 (2011): 195-211. “Migration and Ethnic Humor in Ana Lydia Vega’s ‘Pollito Chicken.’” Invited book chapter for Cross Currents: Building Bridges across American and Nigerian Studies. Ed. Judith Byfield. Ibadan, Nigeria: BookBuilders, 2009. 15-31. “Transnational Bodies, Queer Borders: The Challenge of Latin American and Latino/a Sexual Identities,” Latin American Studies Association Forum , 37:3 (Summer 2006) 18-20. "Recuerdos «parciales» y el closet de la literatura: Ficción y autobiografía de Judith Ortiz Cofer. La Revista Iberoamericana. Eds. Alberto Sandoval-Sánchez and Frances Aparicio. 71.212 (2005): 847-64. “Comedy and Humor.” Encyclopedia of Latinos and Latinas in the United States. Eds. Deena J. González and Susanne Oboler. Oxford: Oxford University Press (2005). “De-facing Cuba: Translating and Transfiguring Cristina García’s The Agüero Sisters.” Voice-Overs: Translation and Latin American Literature. Eds. Daniel Balderston and Marcy Schwartz. Albany: SUNY (2002) 224-34. “La sabiduría de la mujer en la obra de Nemesio Canales.” Revista de Crítica Literaria Latinoamericana. 26.54 (2001): 111-28. + View more Works In Progress Book manuscript: Embodied Economies: Diaspora and Transcultural Capital in Hispanic Caribbean Fiction and Theater Article manuscript: "Crisis, Colonialism, and Cultural Labor in Puerto Rican Fiction and Film" Article manuscript: "Gamaliel Ramírez: A Puerto Rican Artist Lost in a Sea of Flags" Courses SPAN 55.04: Humor and Politics in Latin American Literature, Film, and Culture SPAN 15: Latinx Writing and Composition SPAN 45.02: Diaspora and Economic Imaginaries in Hispanic Caribbean Literature Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback