Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Program in Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Contact Us Latin.American.Latino.and.Caribbean.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Back to Top Nav Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Alumni Resources Graduates Center for Professional Development Share Major For all major, modified major, and minor requests and questions, please contact the current chair, Matthew J. Garcia matthew.j.garcia@dartmouth.edu Prerequisites Language Competency-Demonstrated competency in Spanish or Portuguese equivalent to Spanish 3 or Portuguese 3. This requirement must normally be satisfied before the end of the sixth term. Students are strongly encouraged to study a second language, preferably Portuguese, Spanish, or French. Students planning to take a Foreign Study Program (FSP) must fulfill departmental requirements. Use the following worksheet to help plan and track your progress towards a major: lacs_major_worksheet.pdf lacs_major_worksheet.pdf Major Course Requirements For The LACS/LATS Major A. Two of the three survey courses: LACS 1, LACS 4, LATS 3, or LATS 5 B. Seven LACS and or LATS courses including associated courses from our list • Of the seven courses, at least two must be from the Social Sciences and at least two must be from the Humanities • Four of the seven courses must constitute a concentration that reflects a disciplinary or scholarly focus that can combine courses from one or more departments and programs. All four-course concentrations must be approved by the LALACS Chair C. A culminating experience, consisting of one of the following • A LACS or LATS Senior Seminar • An approved independent study with a LALACS professor • A senior honors thesis in LACS or LATS LALACS Modified Major The Modified Major consists of six courses in LALACS plus four courses above the prerequisite level in one or more other department(s) or program(s). Of the LALACS courses one must be an introductory survey and another must be a culminating experience. Students wishing to modify their LALACS major must submit a written rationale that makes clear the coherence and purpose of their modified major. This rationale must be received by and approved by the Chair, and must also be submitted to the Registrar. Prerequisites Language Competency-Demonstrated competency in Spanish or Portuguese equivalent to Spanish 3 or Portuguese 3. This requirement must normally be satisfied before the end of the sixth term. Students are strongly encouraged to study a second language, preferably Portuguese,Spanish, or French. Students planning to take a Foreign Study Program (FSP) must fulfill departmental requirements. Requirements Six LACS and or LATS courses including associated courses from our list. The six courses will include: A. One survey course: LACS 1, LACS 3, LATS 4, or LATS 5; B. A culminating experience, consisting of one of the following: A LACS or LATS Senior Seminar An approved independent study with a LALACS professor A senior honors thesis in LACS or LATS C. Of the six courses, at least one must be from the Social Sciences and at least one must be from the Humanities. Use the following worksheet to help plan and track your progress towards a modified major: lalacs_modified_major_worksheet.pdf lalacs_modified_major_worksheet.pdf Modifying Another Major with LACS/LATS Students wishing to modify another major with LACS/LATS must take one of our survey courses (LACS 1, LACS 4, LATS 3 or LATS 5) and four additional courses from at least two different disciplines. Use the following worksheet to help plan and track your progress towards a modified major: lalacs_modified_major_worksheet.pdf lalacs_modified_major_worksheet.pdf Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback