Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Program in Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Contact Us Latin.American.Latino.and.Caribbean.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Back to Top Nav Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Alumni Resources Graduates Share 2020 Juan A. Lainez Iscoa screen_shot_2020-05-21_at_7.58.08_am.png Although being on campus really sucked a lot of the time, going to Dartmouth allowed me to explore my interests, further define my identity, and form several long-lasting friendships. All in all, I'm very grateful for the outstanding education I've received, for all of the magnificent professors who've helped me achieve what I have, and for all of the peer support I've received as a campus DJ. However, I wish I had known that Dartmouth is a playground for rich kids before I enrolled. Faculty Support Juan's prose positively sizzles. It was always an absolute pleasure to read his papers. His thoughtful comments always moved the discussion in productive and unexpected ways. He is an iconoclastic thinker, and deeply committed to building vibrant intellectual communities. His fellow students appreciated and respected him, and sought him out for help on papers and projects. Pamela Voekel (LACS 50.13) Like many of the students who took Migrant Lives and Labor in the Upper Valley with me, Juan was apprehensive about "playing into white saviorism" to the members of the dairy farmworker community whom our course serves. By the end of the course, however, Juan articulated in his critical reflection essay that by collaborating with these farmworkers and their families, he came to understand the complexities of community engagement. He learned much about his community partners' past and present, as well as their individual characteristics and hopes for the future. Juan gained much insight into the hard realities that migrants face just beyond the privileged confines of the Dartmouth campus. Thanks to Juan's participation in this course, he helped to mitigate the social isolation that many dairy farmworkers experience in New Hampshire and Vermont. Israel Reyes (LATS 037) Madelyne J. Mayer screen_shot_2020-05-21_at_8.01.06_am.png My professors have by far been the most meaningful part of my Dartmouth experience. Because of them, I've been able to expand my worldview and gain the skills I need to partake in social activism in and out of academia. Because LALACS is a relatively small department, I feel that each and every one of my professors genuinely cares about their students and the material they teach us. My professors have guided me to understand and reclaim my own social identities. And, in many different ways, they have taught me that everything is connected. Thanks to my LALACS professors Mary Coffey, Matt Garcia, Richard Wright, Sebastián Díaz-Duhalde, Jorge Cuéllar, Sina Rauschenbach, Peter DeShazo, Douglas Moody, Desirée Garcia, and Marcela Di Blasi. Shout out to Leah Torrey and Professors Jennifer Sargent, Kianny Antigua, Trica Keaton, and Bill Hudenko for your profound impact on my college experience. And finally, all my love to Nick and Gustavo for supporting me through it all. Thank you for everything. Faculty Support Maddie is a joy to work with. We have been meeting remotely this term to cover our Crossing Over: Latino Roots and Traditions course. All of our course meetings have been in small groups. In response to our readings as well as her course-mates, Maddie has been kind, generous, and emotive. She is sharp, organized, and focused. Most impressive to me, though, has been her ability to credit her course-mates' ideas even in course discussion. She never misses an opportunity to give credit and praise to the thoughtful ideas of others. Marcela Di Blasi (LATS 44) Maddie was a standout even as a second year student when she took my course on Twentieth Century Art from Latin America. As an enthusiastic voice all term, Maddie helped to elevate class discussion about even the most esoteric propositions. Her incisive questions and sharp eye kept me alert to how gender/sexuality, and non-binary expressions in particular, could be better centered in our discussions. Her passion for the world-making potential of art really came through when she led her exhibition group in an outstanding presentation of the exhibition Mundos Alternos: Art and Science Fiction in the Americas for their final project. Mary K. Coffey (LACS 78.1) Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback