Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Program in Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Contact Us Latin.American.Latino.and.Caribbean.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Back to Top Nav Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Jorge E. Cuéllar |Lecturer and Research Associate Academic Appointments Faculty Fellow & Assistant Professor, Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Faculty Fellow, Consortium of Studies in Race, Migration & Sexuality (RMS) Connect with Us Twitter Instagram Jorge E. Cuéllar is an interdisciplinary scholar of politics, culture, and daily life in modern Central America. Cuéllar's research and teaching focus on Central American Studies, Cultural Studies, and Critical Social Theory. His current book project, Everyday Life and Everyday Death in El Salvador, traces the practices of peoplehood, community formation, and everyday life-making amongst varied groups in El Salvador since the end of the Salvadoran Civil War. This work explores the quotidian modes of living, thinking, and being produced by historical inequality, the postwar Salvadoran state, and by structural shifts in the transnational system. A multi-sited study, Cuéllar's research attends to the cultural and political strategies employed by in-country Salvadorans that, despite living in conditions of extreme marginality, economic abandonment and routine violence, engage in practices of refusal, survivance and critique that motion towards restored and dignified social futures. Recently, he has written on cryptocurrency in Latin America, COVID-19 and migration, as well as rising authoritarianism in El Salvador. Cuéllar's scholarly work has appeared in the American Indian Culture and Research Journal, Comparative American Studies, Diálogo, Revue française d’études américaines, Soccer & Society, Latino Studies, and Radical History Review. Works forthcoming will soon appear in Central American Literature in a Global Context, Geopolitics, and others. His public essays and columns can be found in El Faro, NACLA, Social Text's Periscope, Los Angeles Review of Books, NLR's Sidecar and Radical History Review's The Abusable Past. Cuéllar regularly offers comment and analysis on contemporary Central American society and politics across a variety of media outlets. + View more Contact jorge.cuellar@Dartmouth.edu Raven 219 HB 6026 Department(s) Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Education Ph.D. Yale University M.Phil. Yale University M.A. University of Southern California B.A. University of California, Santa Barbara Areas of Expertise Central American Studies /Cultural Studies /Critical Social Theory /Media Studies Selected Publications "Vital minimums: El Salvador between youth and old age" Latino Studies, 19, Issue 4, 2021. "How to Read Equipo Maíz: Cartooning the Political in El Salvador" Radical History Review, 141, 2021. "Waterproofing the State: Migration, River-Borders, and Ecologies of Control" Comparative American Studies: An International Journal, Vol. 18 (1), 2021. "Decolonial Groundwork: On Geo Maher's Anticolonial Eruptions" NACLA, April 29, 2022. "The Value of a Volcano" NACLA & El Faro, November 1, 2021. "Bitcoin Sanctuaries" New Left Review: Sidecar, September 15, 2021. [Español] [Italiano] "There Is No Democratic Tradition in El Salvador" El Faro, May 8, 2021. [Italiano] "Why Should the U.S. Election Matter to Central Americans?" El Faro, Oct. 30, 2020. [Español] [Italiano] "El Salvador's Hydrosocial Crisis" NACLA: Report on the Americas, Vol. 52, Issue 3, 2020. [Español] "Endless Coup, Permanent Struggle: On Nina Lakhani's Who Killed Berta Cáceres?" Los Angeles Review of Books, Sept. 3, 2020. "Pandemic statelessness in Mesoamerica" Routed Magazine, June 20, 2020. [Español] [Italiano] "On Waving the White Flag" Social Text: Periscope, June 5, 2020. "El Salvador's Two Pandemics: Maximum Insecurity" ReVista: Harvard Review of Latin America, May 8, 2020. [Español] [Italiano] "El Salvador Needs More than Savvy Messaging" El Faro, April 9, 2020. "Deportation Contagions" NACLA: Report on the Americas, March 26, 2020.  "Nayib Bukele and the Punitive Option in El Salvador" The Abusable Past, March 2, 2020. "Salvadoran Militarism and Bukele's Post-Postwar" El Faro, February 13, 2020. Speaking Engagements "The CAFTA Template: Understanding Central American Migration in a Time of Dispossession, Repression, and Environmental Crisis" The Border Chronicle, May 26, 2022. "Social Control in El Salvador" Latino Rebels Radio, April 7, 2022. "Interview on El Salvador's Bitcoin experiment" The Crypto Syllabus, Dec. 20 2021. "Entrevista sobre criptomonedas en América Latina" El Salto Diario, Dec. 20, 2021. "El Salvador: a legalização da Bitcoin e a fragilização da Democracia" Shifter, Nov. 29, 2021. "Jorge E. Cuéllar on El Salvador and Bitcoin" A Correction Podcast, Nov. 23, 2021. "Hasta Encontrarles: The Caravan of Mothers of Missing Migrants and Root Causes of Migration" Mahindra Center for the Humanities, Harvard University, Oct. 21, 2021 "El Salvador Becomes First Nation to Make Bitcoin Legal Tender Amid Growing Authoritarianism" Democracy Now!, Sept. 16, 2021. "El Salvador's Bitcoin Law" Al-Jazeera English, Sept. 7, 2021. “How the Pandemic Made Us Even Less Equal: Challenges and Opportunities in Africa and the Americas,” Drexel University, Feb. 26, 2021. "On Disaster and the Future of Central America" Greater Philadelphia Latin American Studies Consortium Distinguished Lecture at Villanova University, The College of New Jersey, University of Pennsylvania, and Temple University, Feb. 22-26, 2021. "As Pandemic Epicenter Shifts to Latin America, Gov’ts Use COVID-19 as Pretext for Police Repression" Democracy Now!, May 29, 2020. Courses Politics and Culture in Transnational Central America Land, Belonging, and Social Change in Latin America Global Race x Global Migration Related Links Google Scholar ResearchGate Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback