Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Program in Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Contact Us Latin.American.Latino.and.Caribbean.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Back to Top Nav Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Melanie Plasencia Chavez Fellow, 2021-2023 Melanie Z. Plasencia is a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Comparative Ethnic Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, and the incoming César Chávez Fellow at Dartmouth College for 2021-2022. This year, she was nominated to serve as the graduate student representative for the Aging and Lifecourse section of the ASA. Her research is committed to improving older immigrants' social, economic, and health conditions by learning about the role social support and place have in shaping their health and well-being. Drawing on more than two years of ethnographic fieldwork in a community of older Latinxs on the East Coast and 72 open-ended interviews, her dissertation, "Con Suenos Que Ya Son Viejos: How Aging Latinx Immigrants Confront Inequality in Later Life," examines how older Latinx immigrants negotiate the challenges of aging in the context of extreme poverty, deteriorating health, and diminishing government support. Her research shows that older Latinx immigrants face enormous financial, familial, medical, and health challenges when they decide to grow old in the United States. As a result, older Latinxs must learn new ways of managing healthcare, adapting to fixed incomes, and finding spheres of personal and even moral worth in their retirement years. Her project has been supported by a multi-year University of California (UC) fellowship, the New York Metro Fellowship, the Institute for the Study of Societal Issues, UC Berkeley's Center for Race and Gender, and the Ford Foundation. Melanie's research is forthcoming, in the journal of Social Problems and The Gerontologist, respectively. Personal Website Contact Melanie.Z.Plasencia.GR@Dartmouth.edu Raven 216 Education B.A. Rutgers University M.A. University of California, Berkeley ABD, University of California, Berkeley Selected Publications PEER-REVIEWED PUBLICATIONS "Age-Friendly as Tranquilo Ambiente: How Cultural Perspectives Shape Older Latinos' Lived Environment," The Gerontologist, Special Issue on Age-Friendly Environments, forthcoming. "'I don't have much money, but I have a lot of friends': How Poor Older Latinos Find Tangible Support in Peer Friendship Networks," Social Problems, https://academic.oup.com/socpro/advance-article-abstract/doi/10.1093/soc... Julia Sizek with Isabel G. Valdivia and Melanie Z. Plasencia, "Addressing Latinx Social inequality in Later Life." Written interview. Social Science Matrix, December 10th, 2021. BOOK CHAPTERS " 'La Iglesia Es Mi Comunidad': A Union City Latinx Destination From Arrival to Old Age," in Latino New Jersey, edited by Ulla Dalum Berg and Aldo Lauria Santiago (New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press), forthcoming. ENCYCLOPEDIA ENTRIES "Antonio Ibarria (1935-) and El Especialito (Union City, NJ) (1985)," in Latinos in the American Political System: An Encyclopedia of Latinos as Voters, Candidates, and Office Holders, edited by Jessica Lavariega Monforti (Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO), 2019, 172-173. "Robert 'Bob' Menendez (1954-)," in Latinos in the American Political System: An Encyclopedia of Latinos as Voters, Candidates, and Office Holders, edited by Jessica Lavariega Monforti (Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO), 2019, 319-320. REVIEWS Review of Theresa Delgadillo, Latina Lives in Milwaukee, in Latino Studies 15, no. 3 (Fall 2017): 386-388. OTHER WRITING "Why Latinas Do IT: A Qualitative Exploration of Women in Information Technology," NCUR Conference Research Proceedings for University of North Carolina, (Spring 2011). + View more Works In Progress "Reimagining Care for Latinx Senior Survival" (draft available upon request) Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Undergraduate Major Overview Minor Honors and Independent Study Courses Courses in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Alumni Alumni Stories Resources Graduates Foreign Study Overview Casa Cuba FAQs Fellowships César Chávez Fellowship César Chávez Fellowship Past Recipients Guarini Dean's Postdoctoral Fellowship News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback