Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Experts Weigh In on Hurricane Ida and Deadly Flash Floods in New York City Climate Experts Weigh In on Hurricane Ida and Deadly Flash Floods in New York City Experts from the Columbia Climate School have provided their insights and perspectives to journalists across the country trying to make sense of Hurricane Ida. By Elise Gout September 10, 2021 Hurricane Ida is seen in this image taken aboard the International Space Station. Credit: NASA On August 29, the 16th anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, Hurricane Ida made landfall in Louisiana as a Category 4 storm. More than one million people across the state were left without power, including the entire city of New Orleans. The storm then moved to the Northeast, where it brought record-setting windspeeds and rainfall. In New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Maryland, at least 10 tornadoes ripped through local communities. In New York City, water inundated subways and basements in a matter of hours. So far, at least 82 storm-related deaths have been reported. Journalists and government officials across the country are now trying to make sense of Hurricane Ida, its damages, and just how unexpected they were. In response, experts from the Columbia Climate School specializing in extreme weather, disaster resilience, and climate science have provided their insights and perspectives. Here are some of the questions they are helping to address. How did climate change contribute to Hurricane Ida? The strength and intensity of Hurricane Ida has underscored the ways in which climate change interacts with severe weather. As Jason Smerdon, a climate scientist at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, told ABC News, Hurricane Ida is just the latest in a series of devastating extreme weather events across the Northern Hemisphere this year that have been “impacted by global warming.” The Earth’s atmosphere is currently about 1.2 degrees Celsius warmer than before the Industrial Revolution, Kate Marvel, a climate scientist at the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and professor at the Columbia Climate School, told NJ.com. She explained that when the air heats up, it can hold more water, resulting in “an increase in very heavy rainfalls, especially in the Midwest and on the East Coast.” In an interview with the New York Times, hurricane expert Suzana Camargo from the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory pointed out that heavy rainfall is also not unique to Hurricane Ida. “We are seeing this increase in extreme rainfall for all types of events,” she said. Why do New York City’s subways keep flooding? Flooding in the Bronx the day after Ida passed through New York City. Credit: Jim Griffin The rainfall from Hurricane Ida overwhelmed the New York City subway system and temporarily shut down all rail lines. Klaus Jacob, a geophysicist at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, told Gizmodo that the number of subway lines that were closed down due to Hurricane Ida is “definitely the highest” that he has seen since 2012, when a storm surge brought on by Hurricane Sandy broke through subway defenses. In an interview with VICE, Jacob attributed the storm-induced failures of the subway system to repeated political failures to prioritize funding for the Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA). “It’s not that the MTA is sleeping,” he said. “You should point more [of] a finger at the governor, the assembly, and the federal government, and say, ‘Help the MTA to do its job; they want to do it.’” Adam Sobel, director of the Initiative on Extreme Weather and Climate at Columbia University, relayed a similar point in an email to the Associated Press. After nearly ten years of post-Sandy resilience planning at the state and local level, he said “one might have hoped, in an alternate reality—where, for example, the MTA weren’t chronically under-funded —that we might have seen a bit more progress on keeping water out of the subways.” Preparing New York City for future extreme weather events will require both mitigating the overflows of the city’s sewer system, which can cause the subway stations to flood, and developing solutions to sufficiently block subway entrances in the event that overflows occur, Jacob told City Limits. Are storms like Hurricane Ida the “new normal”? As the atmosphere continues to warm, extreme weather events are expected to be more frequent and more intense. In an email to The Hill, Camargo said that multiple climate science studies have analyzed historic data and found that “we are already seeing an increase in the occurrence of the most intense storms.” Hurricane Ida is the latest example of how these projections are playing out in real time. Speaking to the Verge, Radley Horton, a climate scientist at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, said, “What we’re learning is that the unthinkable may have always been more likely than we wanted to admit—and with climate change, it becomes much more likely.” This is not to say that it is too late to address the increasing impacts of climate change. Writing for CNN, Camargo underscored that “we cannot continue to delay taking significant action” to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. “The time to act is now,” she wrote. Sobel, in his opinion piece for CNN, agreed: “Speak out, organize, give money, vote. Let’s all get to it, however we can.” Tags flash floods hurricane ida Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory National Center for Disaster Preparedness natural disasters NYC Natural Disasters News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close