Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News News News September 21, 2020 We Must Do Better at Managing the Wilderness that Remains Humanity is failing at preserving biodiversity. But a book from 2006 offers inspiration and instructions on how to preserve what’s left of it. September 18, 2020 Lamont Alumna Receives Prestigious Prize Susan Trumbore, who earned her Ph.D. at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, is among the recipients of the 2020 Balzan Prize, one of the most prestigious international awards in natural science and humanities. September 16, 2020 Seismic Monitoring May Improve Early Warnings for Glacial Lake Outburst Floods A new study finds that real-time monitoring of ground motion could have detected a sudden and catastrophic flood in Bhutan five hours before it destroyed a village. September 14, 2020 Ancient Volcanoes Once Boosted Ocean Carbon, But Humans Are Now Far Outpacing Them A new study of the closest ancient analog to modern carbon emissions finds that massive volcanism was the main cause of high carbon at the time. But nature did not come close to matching what humans are doing today. September 10, 2020 New Project Will Create ‘The Internet of Samples’ iSamples will digitalize scientific samples to enable more discoveries and information-sharing. September 09, 2020 Deep Channels Linking Antarctic Glacier’s Underside to Ocean Could Hasten Melting Newly discovered seabed channels beneath the Thwaites Glacier may be pathways for warm ocean water to melt the ice’s undersides and contribute to sea level rise. September 04, 2020 A Summer Immersed in the Hudson: Next Generation of Hudson River Educators Interns developed skills in science communication by creating educational materials about the river’s colorful stories, myths, and misunderstandings. September 02, 2020 Interns Find Links Between Climate and Arsenic Levels in Rice The research, from students working with the Center for Climate and Life, also identifies ways to potentially limit arsenic contamination in rice. August 31, 2020 Environmental Justice Through the Eyes of The Next Generation of Hudson River Educators In a summer program, students learned about and discussed the science of the Hudson River watershed, as well as the social issues present in their daily lives. August 28, 2020 Academics and Activism: Where Global Warming and Racism Meet A new student-driven course explores race, climate change, and social justice. August 28, 2020 Our Focus Has to Be on the Victims of Hurricane Laura Atmospheric scientist Adam Sobel writes that yes, Hurricane Laura is about climate change, but first it’s about people. August 26, 2020 Antarctic Ice Shelves Vulnerable to Sudden Meltwater-Driven Fracturing, Says Study A new study says that many of the ice shelves ringing Antarctica could be vulnerable to quick destruction if rising temperatures drive melt water into the numerous fractures that currently penetrate their surfaces. August 25, 2020 E.I. Teach Arms Educators With Climate Change Lesson Plans and Confidence The training programs connected teachers with renowned scientists and other educators eager to inspire a new generation of environmental stewards. August 21, 2020 Fleeing the Climate: the ‘Great Migration’ Ahead A new model finds that areas where humans can barely survive, which currently cover about 1 percent of the planet, will grow to about 20 percent within the next 50 years August 20, 2020 Greenland Ice Sheet Saw Record Loss in 2019 An international team of polar researchers says that the Greenland ice sheet experienced record loss in 2019. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹ Previous Page 1 Current page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page Next › Last page Last » Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close