Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Future of Technology in Higher Education Summit Events Past Event Future of Technology in Higher Education Summit Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 8, 2021 10:00 AM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online Event You are invited to join Columbia University, HP and AMD for an exclusive one-day virtual event, The Future of Technology in Higher Education Summit. Hear from university and industry leaders on the impact emerging technologies will have over the next 5 years and how higher education institutions can leverage these technologies to innovate within their institution. Engage with thought leaders on their perspective on the future of IT in higher education and meet academicians and practitioners advancing pedagogy with the use of new technologies. Agenda Highlights Include: Welcome from Columbia University CIO, Gaspare LoDuca Ron Guerrier, CIO of HP, on how HP and AMD’s roadmap and research labs impact the future of higher education. Hear from Dr. D. Christopher Brooks, Director of Research of EDUCAUSE, on how lessons learned in the current crisis will shape higher education digital transformation strategy of the coming 3 to 5 years. Participate in breakout sessions led by industry and academic experts. Professor Soulaymane Kachani Vice Provost for Teaching, Learning, and Innovation, will kick off as we deep dive on cutting-edge research projects, enabled by the Emerging Technology Grant/HP - AMD Campus of the Future program, exploring innovative use cases of VR, XR and Data Science. Professor Brent Stockwell, Dept of Biological Sciences - Teaching biochemistry in VR Associate Professor Courtney Cogburn, School of Social Work - XR for Good: Exploring Extended Reality + Social Work + Social Justice Lecturer Kytt MacManus, Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology - Utilizing drones and 3D ARC GIS for spatial data collection and analysis Lecturer Seth Cluett, Music - Augmented Reality for Accessible and Inclusive Technical Studio Education Witness the success of collaborative partnerships of educational institutions and corporations to foster change. At HP, we believe that a high-quality education is a modern education. One in which students, teachers and administrators can create deeply individualized and connected learning experiences, anywhere, anytime. AMD strives to accelerate learning, creation and collaboration for students, teachers, and administrators everywhere. Investing in technology to build better solutions which deliver superb user experiences, through improved performance, security, manageability, and connectivity. With healthy growth in all our key markets, and a roadmap of game-changing innovations coming to market, the future looks bright for schools, colleges, and communities who embrace open-minded thinking and choose AMD. HP and AMD are committed to solutions for education, creating a brighter future for our whole society. Contact Information CUIT Emerging Technologies [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close