Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events [ClimateWeekNYC] Climate Risk Summit: Compound dry-hot extreme ev... Events Past Event [ClimateWeekNYC] Climate Risk Summit: Compound dry-hot extreme ev... Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo September 30, 2021 6:15 AM - 7:45 AM America/New_York Online The impacts of climate change are now being felt in communities around the world, with extreme weather resulting in loss of life and devastation. Continued global temperature rise brings the threat of crossing climate tipping points with catastrophic implications. And there is now an increased understanding of the systemic nature of climate risks and the danger of amplification through cascades of interacting risks propagating through global society. It is therefore imperative to properly characterise the full extent of climate risks and to identify effective strategies to build resilience to climate hazards. The Climate Risk Summit will provide a forum for discussion of these climate risk topics. It aims to bring key climate risk information to the attention of a wide audience in advance of COP26, including policy makers and negotiators, both nationally and internationally. In addition, the summit will build capacity in the community of climate change academic experts in communicating risk effectively to different audiences. Compound dry-hot extreme events – enablers and barriers to individual and community preparedness and response Thursday, September 30, 2021 6:15 AM - 7:45 AM (New York) 11:15 AM - 12:45 PM (London) This session will discuss the impacts of compound dry-hot extreme events, and individual and community preparedness and response approaches, as well as enablers and barriers to action. Considering different global contexts, it will focus on measures that can be implemented before and during an event to reduce impacts across diverse socio-economic groups. The intersectionality of individuals and communities including gender, age and socio-economic status will be considered and how this impacts capabilities to prepare and respond to extreme events. Drawing on worldwide experience, learning and best practice, panellists will discuss the development, adoption and implementation of action plans to build resilience of people and places. Panellists: Andrew Kruczkiewicz, Senior Staff Research Associate at the International Research Institute for Climate and Society, Columbia Climate School Further panellists to be announced. Curated by Raquel Nunes Organized by the COP26 Universities Network supported by UKRI (UK Research and Innovation). The Climate Group has selected the Columbia Climate School as its university partner for this year’s Climate Week NYC. Running Sept. 20-26, Climate Week NYC convenes key climate leaders to accelerate climate action and discuss ambitious commitments ahead of the 26th UN Climate Change Conference, or COP26, later this fall in Glasgow. Contact Information none Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close