Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Sidney Hemming, Paleoclimate Detective, Wins Guggenheim Fellowship Climate Sidney Hemming, Paleoclimate Detective, Wins Guggenheim Fellowship A Q&A with the geochemist, who plans to investigate a key climate interval millions of years ago. By Marie DeNoia Aronsohn April 13, 2021 Sidney Hemming, a geochemist at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, is ready to dig in, literally and figuratively. Word this week that she has been awarded a 2021 Guggenheim Fellowship was both a thrill and an inspiration for her next big project. The fellowship coincides with a sabbatical that begins in the coming academic year. Hemming, also a professor at Columbia’s Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, is ready to take on a foundational planetary question. I spoke with Hemming about the prize, her fellowship project, and her long Lamont career. Sidney Hemming is one of two Earth Institute faculty to win the Guggenheim Fellowship this year, joining her colleague Paige West, an anthropologist at Barnard College. You started your career at Lamont as a postdoctoral researcher working with the famous climate scientist Wally Broecker back in 1994. How does this latest honor measure up in the context of your career experiences? This is a big deal for me. I don’t have any previous honor quite like this. It really is exciting. I’m a little bit embarrassed but very excited. According to the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, the fellowships are offered “to exceptional individuals in pursuit of scholarship in any field of knowledge and creation in any art form, under the freest possible conditions.” What will you do with this opportunity? I want to make it an opportunity to do a thorough review about what’s known about the interval between the Pliocene [5.3 million to 2.6 million years ago] and Pleistocene [2.6 million to 10.000 years ago]—during which a succession of glacial and interglacial climatic cycles occurred. It is really like a detective project. I haven’t [yet] studied that interval myself, but on our 2019 expedition cruise to the area between the Antarctic peninsula and South America called Iceberg Alley, we got some really extraordinary records. I’m most interested in three sites we drilled closest to Antarctica. I want to analyze these samples and deeply study all that’s been written and what’s already known about this time period. Scientists had believed that the ice ages in the northern and southern hemispheres happened at the same time. That was before early deep-sea drilling in the Ross Sea revealed the glaciations in Antarctica began much earlier. Now it’s known that Antarctica’s glaciation started 34 million years ago and the northern hemisphere’s started 2.6 million years ago. That’s a big difference in the time scale of the formation. This was a big climate change when the northern hemisphere glaciation started. I want to understand the context of Antarctica’s response to the northern hemisphere glaciation. It’s a wide open question. What would be the implication of better defining if and how Antarctica changed in response to the northern hemisphere glaciation? Would it help us understand future climate change? Broadly, these questions—is Antarctica responding to North Atlantic deep water overturning or [is the planet] responding to southern winds—has pretty important implications for future climate. So, while it’s not a “surgical strike” investigation into future climate, it would provide a broad context of the kind of parameters that are controlling the big picture. What are you most proud of about your work so far? I’m an analytical geochemist. I work at developing approaches to making measurements. It’s the kind of thing that might not grab a lot of attention right away, but makes a real difference in the future. Tags Antarctica Climate climate change Climate Science Earth Fundamentals Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory research-home Southern Ocean student faculty spotlights News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close