Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Emerging Voices in the Geosciences and Society: Dr. Mika Tosca Events Current and Upcoming Emerging Voices in the Geosciences and Society: Dr. Mika Tosca Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo June 7, 2022 4:00 PM - 6:00 PM America/New_York Lerner Hall, 2920 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 569 Show Map This seminar features Dr. Mika Tosca, Associate Professor of Climate Science at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. "Imagining a post-climate-crisis future: Art, design, climate change, and overcoming the apocalypse narrative." As the climate crisis intensifies amidst ongoing public skepticism, much of the science remains abstruse, cumbersomely documented, and opaquely presented, making engagement with it by “nonscientists” difficult. Perhaps this is the reason why a segment of the population continues to assert that human beings are not responsible for the observed 21st century climate change. There exists, therefore, an exciting and necessary opportunity for scientists to collaborate with artists to not only improve the communication of climate science, but also to bolster the production of scientific knowledge. In this presentation Dr. Tosca will present the results of a collaborative project—inspired by that work—that combines the scientific method with the design process. This project elucidated the very real potential for art and design to dramatically improve the way climate research is conducted and communicated. She will also introduce work from three collaborative projects by undergraduate artists, which explore ways that art and design can help us to collectively imagine (and build) future worlds in the aftermath of the climate crisis. Presented by: Columbia Climate School Office of Research and The Seminar Diversity Initative This one hour talk and Q&A will be following by light freshments and networking. For those that cannot attend in-person, a Zoom link will be sent out 24 hours in advance. If you are unable to register with a Columbia UNI, please email Natalie Trotta to request the Zoom link to attend the event virtually. Contact Information Natalie Trotta [email protected] Register on CU Events Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close