Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Education Student & Educator Programs Summer Opportunities: Intern Programs for Undergraduates Summer Opportunities: Intern Programs for Undergraduates The Lamont-Doherty summer intern programs offer undergraduates the chance to experience cutting-edge scientific research. Our Lamont Summer Intern Program is for undergraduates from U.S. colleges and universities. Our Earth Intern Program is for Columbia and Barnard undergraduates. The application period is typically in January/February, and the programs run early June through early August. During this experience, interns get to try on research science careers, achieve a level of comfort on a top-level research campus, and establish close personal relationships with mentors who are successful professional scientists. Students work in our lively interdisciplinary research and education communities and are individually mentored by at least one of our scientists over 10 weeks each summer. The goals of the program are for students to learn through their own experience what research is like so they can explore research careers; develop self-confidence in their independent research, communication abilities, and scientific identities; and form lasting professional relationships with scientists. Research projects are in all areas of Earth, atmospheric, oceanic, and environmental sciences, and follow the diverse disciplinary interests of the students. Expand all Collapse all Lamont Summer Intern Program for Undergraduates 2022 program dates: June 1-August 2, 2022 Notice: Application must be received by Feb 23, 2022. (Extended to: Feb 28, 2022 8am ET) Sponsored by the National Science Foundation (NSF) Ocean and Earth Sciences REU Sites Program REU Site at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Interdisciplinary Cutting-Edge Research though the Analysis of Global Data This REU site at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory has offered internships for more than two decades. Funding is provided by the US National Science Foundation (Arlington, Virginia) and is contingent upon their continued support. The Lamont-Doherty contacts for the REU are Dr. Dallas Abbott (845-596-1131) and Dr. Michael Kaplan; please direct all questions to them. The NSF contact for the REU Site program is Program Manager Dr. Lisa Rom (703-292-7709). NSF does not handle REU applications; please contact each REU site directly for application information. The Lamont-Doherty Summer Intern Program offers the chance to experience scientific research as an undergraduate. The program is open to US citizens or permanent residents who have completed their junior or sophomore year in college or community college with majors in earth science, environmental science, chemistry, biology, physics, mathematics, or engineering. Neither graduating seniors nor international students are eligible for this internship. Minorities and women are encouraged to apply. If possible, the internship will be held in-person at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University’s Earth and Environmental Science campus in Palisades New York, with students being housed in a nearby college dormitory. However, should the Covid-19 Pandemic prevent an in-person program, it will be held remotely, following the model of the very successful 2020 and 2021 remote programs. Applicants should have an interest in conducting research in the Earth, Ocean, Atmospheric, and Environmental Sciences. Two previous college-level courses in one or more of these areas are desirable if they are available to the student. All students are preferred to have at least one year of calculus (high school or college) and/or good grades in college level mathematics. Students choosing research in geochemistry and chemical oceanography should have at least two semesters of college-level chemistry; in marine biology at least two semesters of college-level biology; and in geophysics should have at least two semesters of college-level physics. However, exceptions may be made in cases where the applicant’s college does not offer appropriate courses. The program features: A hands-on research project under the supervision of a Columbia-affiliated scientist; Opportunities to discuss science with both experts and peers; Training in data analysis techniques, using software environments such as GeoMapApp, R, Matlab, and Python; Training in lab safety, professional ethics, and career opportunities; Special lectures, workshops, and field trips; Free housing in a Dominican college dormitory; Ten-week stipend of $6000. For more information and to view the listing of advisors and projects, review these documents completely before filling out the application: 2022 National Program Brochure 2022 National Project Descriptions 2022 Program FAQs In order to be able to access and complete the online application form properly, you need to have: The latest version of Firefox, Internet Explorer, or Safari as your browser (STRONGLY recommended). Javascript and Cookies turned on in your browser. Normally, these are on by default. Your resume completed and saved as a PDF file. Your top three choices for advisor. You will be asked to specify them in the application. If you have trouble with the above requirements, please contact the webmaster. APPLY NOW Expand all Collapse all Earth Intern Program for Columbia & Barnard Undergraduates Earth Intern Program for Columbia University and Barnard Undergraduates 2022 program dates: June 1-August 3, 2022 Notice: Application must be received by Feb 23rd, 2022. (Extended to: Feb 28, 2022 8am ET) Sponsored by the Earth Institute, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Barnard College, Columbia College, and the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University The Earth Intern Program offers the chance to experience scientific research as an undergraduate. The program is open to all Columbia College, Columbia Engineering, Columbia General Studies, and Barnard College students who have completed their junior or sophomore year in college with majors (or anticipated majors) in earth science, environmental science, chemistry, biology, physics, mathematics, engineering, sustainable development, or political science. Graduating seniors are not eligible. Minorities and women are encouraged to apply. Applicants should have an interest in conducting research in the Earth, atmospheric, or ocean sciences. Completion of at least two courses in Earth, atmospheric, or ocean sciences is desirable. All students are preferred to have at least one year of calculus (high school or college) and/or good grades in college-level mathematics. Students undertaking research in geochemistry and chemical oceanography are required to have at least two semesters of college-level chemistry. Students undertaking research in marine biology are required to have at least two semesters of college-level biology. Students undertaking research in geophysics should have at least three semesters of college-level physics. The program features: A hands-on research project under the supervision of a Columbia-affiliated scientist; Special lectures, workshops, and field trips; Free housing in a Domincan College dormitory; Ten-week stipend of $6000. For more information and to view the listing of advisors and projects, review these documents completely before filling out the application: 2022 Earth Intern Program Brochure 2022 Earth Intern Project Descriptions 2022 Program FAQs In order to be able to access and complete the online application form properly, you need to have The latest version of Firefox, Internet Explorer, or Safari as your browser (STRONGLY recommended). Javascript and Cookies turned on in your browser. Normally, these are on by default. Your resume completed and saved as a PDF file. Your top three choices for advisor. You will be asked to specify them in the application. If you have trouble with the above requirements, please contact the webmaster. APPLY NOW Expand all Collapse all Past Interns 2021 Interns Alexia Alejos, Columbia University Mentors: Jordan Abell, Gisela Winkler Characterizing Southern Hemisphere Westerly Winds Over the Marine Isotope Stage 8 to 7 Transition – Abstract and Slide Malik T. Atadzhanov, Kingsborough Community College Mentors: Dallas Abbott, Karin Block Constraining the Timing and Chemical Composition of the Mid Sixth Century Submarine Volcanic Eruptions Between 45 North and 30 South – Abstract and Slide Kristen L. Avery, Tompkins Cortland Community College Mentors: Christopher Lepre, Paul Olsen What Can the Geochemical Variations in Ancient Stromatolites Tell Us About Climate Variability in Eastern Africa? – Abstract and Slide Grace A. Brown, Barnard College Mentor: Yutian Wu The Interannual Variability of Carbon Monoxide in the Upper Troposphere-Lower Stratosphere Over the Asian Summer Monsoon Region – Abstract and Slide Amanda J. Chen, Wellesley College Mentors: Benjamin Bostick, Sidney Hemming Examining Mineralogical Variations Through ODP Site 959 in the Gulf of Guinea – Abstract and Slide Ashley Dann, University of Florida Mentors: Steve Goldberg, Angela Slagle CO2 Storage and Hydrate Stability: A Comparison of Offshore Basaltic Reservoirs – Abstract and Slide Tania DaSilva, Dominican College of Blauvelt Mentors: Clara Chang, Paul Olsen, Sean Kinney, Christopher Lepre Quantitative Analysis of Modern Fish Kills and Fossil Fish: Algae Rafting in the Fossil Record – Abstract and Slide Connor Diaz, Columbia University School of General Studies Mentors: Mingfang Ting, Radley Horton Occupational Health Risk to Agricultural Workers From Humid Heat – Abstract and Slide Shriya A. Fruitwala, Haverford College Mentors: Chia-Ying Lee, Suzana Camargo Analyzing the Record-Breaking 2020 Atlantic Hurricane Season – Abstract and Slide Fernando D. Fuentes, LaGuardia Community College Mentor: Bill Menke Can Earthquakes Be Induced by Thermal Expansion or Chemical Expansion Affecting Stress in the Earth? – Abstract and Slide Olivia M. Gadson, Georgetown University Mentors: Lloyd Anderson, Natalie Umling Investigating Shell Thickness and Preservation in Two Species of Planktonic Foraminifera Over Millions of Years – Abstract and Slide Herman Garcia, The City College of New York Mentors: Yuxian Zhou, Jerry McManus Utilizing Stable Isotopes to Reconstruct Ocean Circulation During the Last 150 Kyrs in the North Atlantic – Abstract and Slide Cyril M. Gilman, Columbia College, Columbia University Mentors: Suzana Camargo, Chia-Ying Lee, Dan Westervelt, Arlene Fiore Effects of Anthropogenic European So2 Emissions on North Atlantic Tropical Cyclone Behavior – Abstract and Slide Annika R. Gonzales, California State University, Long Beach Mentors: Michael Kaplan, Ángel Muñoz, Steven Goldstein, Sidney Hemming Connecting Changes in Volcanic Activity to Glacial-Climates Over the Last ~6 Ma From Central America to the Central Andes - Abstract and Slide Karine L. Holmes, Iowa State University Mentors: Celeste Pallone, Jerry McManus Multispecies Foraminifera Reconstruction of the Eastern Equatorial Pacific Thermocline During the Holocene and Last Glacial Interval – Abstract and Slide Ellen M. Jorgensen, Syracuse University Mentors: Yuxian Zhou, Jerry McManus Contextualizing North Atlantic Sediment within Heinrich Events – Abstract and Slide Ashley Lambert, College of Staten Island Mentor: Jerry McManus Did Iceberg Discharge in the Labrador Sea Influence Climate or Ocean Circulation Since the End of the Last Ice Age – Abstract and Slide Madison Mahan, University of Maine Mentor: Susanne Straub A Temporal Record of Plio-Pleistocene Volcanism of the Kurile-Kamchatka Arc From Odp Site 881, Northwest Pacific – Abstract and Slide Tavehon J. McGarry, Columbia University Mentors: Craig Connolly, Ben Bostick Analyzing Relationship Between Environmental Conditions and Arsenic Absorption in Rice – Abstract and Slide Katelyn R. McPaul, Columbia University Mentors: Martin Stute, William Smethie Improving Measurement of Nitrogen, Argon, and Oxygen in the Ocean Using Gas Chromatography – Abstract and Slide Sera M. Ndure, Housatonic Community College Mentors: Kailani Acosta, Andrew Juhl Do Monthly to Inter-Annual Rainfall Patterns Affect the Abundance of Sewage Bacteria in the Hudson River (NY,USA)? – Abstract and Slide Olivia C. Pfetsch, Columbia University Mentor: Andreas Thurnherr Exploring Connections Between Seafloor Topography and the Structure of the Bottom Boundary Layer – Abstract and Slide Ellen Ren, Barnard College Mentors: Qiang Yang, Steve Chillrud Correction for PurpleAir PM2.5 Data in the NYC area – Abstract and Slide Charlotte Rhoads, Vassar College Mentor: Bill Menke Does Supplementing Travel Time Data with Amplitude Data improve Geo-tomographic Determinations of Earth Structure? – Abstract and Slide Bryn E. Stecher, Barnard College Mentors: Allie Balter-Kennedy, Joerg Shaefer Holocene Deglaciation History of the Juneau Icefield, Southeastern Alaska, Using Cosmogenic 10Be – Abstract and Slide Emily M. Stone, Barnard College Mentor: Dorothy Peteet Late Glacial to Holocene Climate Shifts as Revealed by Vegetational Macrofossil Reconstruction, Maplecrest Bog, Catskill Mountains, New York – Abstract and Slide Anzim S. Sultan, City College of New York Mentors: Dallas Abbott, Steven Jaret, Karin Block Age and Composition of Holocene Tropical Submarine Volcanoes in the Equatorial and North Pacific – Abstract and Slide Oumou D. Traore, Hostos Community College Mentors: Paul Olsen, Clara Chang, Sean Kinney What Can Inherited Zircons Tell Us About the Origins of The Central Atlantic Magmatic Province and Its Transit Through the Earth’s Crust? – Abstract and Slide Felicia R. Trebian, Navajo Technical University Mentors: Paul Olsen, Clara Chang, Sean Kinney Translation of Orbital Pacing to Climate at a Transitory Interval of Low Co2 During the Dawn of the Dinosaurs – Abstract and Slide Savannah M. Ward, Columbia University Mentor: Dan Westervelt NOₓ and PM2.5 Measurements with Low Cost Sensors and Reference Monitors at a High Traffic Site in Nairobi, Kenya. – Abstract and Slide Contact Dallas Abbott Michael Kaplan Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close