Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Creative Communications for a Changing Climate Events Past Event Creative Communications for a Changing Climate Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 22, 2022 4:00 PM - 6:00 PM America/New_York Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 Garden Room 2 Show Map Please join us for the second event in our Columbia Climate School Speaker Series: CREATIVE COMMUNICATIONS FOR A CHANGING CLIMATE: Linking Science and Action through Games, Humor, and Thermochromic Art How can we harness the power of humanity to understand and address changing risks? In this intensely interactive session, we will explore the powerful opportunities offered by integrating creativity into risk communication. Focusing on disasters, climate and development initiatives carried out in collaboration with Columbia’s climate experts and other partners, we will share recent innovations in how to engage in serious-yet-fun, fruitful conversations about what we know and what we can do. We will enjoy Games that help people and organizations experience the complexity of future risks and tough decisions, as well as tailor-made Humor (including a live cartoonist co-creating original work with participants!), and our most recent exploration: Thermochromic Art (paintings using a special pigment that changes attributes when temperature exceeds a certain threshold). Building on examples from rural Kenya to the White House and from the Vatican to Nasa, we will jointly brainstorm: how can researchers, artists and designers work with you, government, humanitarian and development organizations? Given evolving hazards and vulnerabilities, let’s chart the way forward to mobilize both the intellect and the emotions of decision makers at all scales. Dr. Pablo Suarez is innovation lead at the Red Cross Red Crescent Climate Centre, as well as visiting fellow at Boston University, and artist in residence at the National University of Singapore. He has consulted for the United Nations Development Programme, the World Food Programme, World Bank, Oxfam, and about twenty other international humanitarian and development organizations, working in more than 60 countries. A consistently original and engaging communicator, his current work involves creative approaches to risk management – ranging from financial instruments for faster disaster preparedness, to self-learning algorithms for flood prediction, to collaboration with professional humorists to inspire thinking and action. Pablo holds a water engineering degree, a master’s degree in planning, and a Ph.D. in geography. The program will run from 4pm-5pm, with a reception to follow from 5pm-6pm. This event is open to CUID holders. Please register with your UNI. Contact Information Adrienne Kenyon [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close