Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Lamont to Harvest Sunshine from Solar Farm Energy Lamont to Harvest Sunshine from Solar Farm Two solar arrays in Upstate New York will be up and ready at the end of November, poised to provide power and to help to reduce the Lamont campus’ carbon footprint. By Marie DeNoia Aronsohn November 16, 2017 Solar panels on the Johnson Farm in Chester, New York, will help reduce the carbon footprint of the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory campus. Photo: Jennifer Genrich The Johnson Farm, a family operation passed down through several generations, sprawls out over autumnal red, yellow, and orange hills in Chester, New York. A 45-minute drive from Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory campus, it is a place of crops, cows, barns, and tractors. And now it is also a place of sophisticated clean-energy technology. Just past the cowshed and its 11 lowing inhabitants, a sleek, gleaming assemblage of photovoltaic panels covers an open field, stretching out in all its silicon glory. This farm, along with the Cosh Farm in Minisink, New York, were commissioned by Lamont in an effort to slash the campus’ energy expenditures, which total more than $1 million per year. The project will also demonstrate that the esteemed climate research institute can “walk its talk” and reduce its carbon footprint with an environmentally responsible investment. The 2-megawatt solar farm spans about a dozen acres in Upstate New York. Photo: Siemens “We have a moral obligation to practice what we preach,” said Patrick O’Reilly, Lamont’s assistant director of facilities and engineering. “We’ve been interested in trying to curtail our greenhouse gas emissions for many years. A big chunk of the emissions is from our energy consumption.” The solar farms will be completely constructed and ready to connect to the Orange and Rockland Utilities (O&R) grid by November 30. After O&R installs an electric meter and other necessary components to prepare the grid for this new power supply to come online in late winter, the Lamont solar arrays will generate two megawatts of electricity from each farm. The farms will supply enough power to meet 75 percent of Lamont’s electrical needs, cutting the campus’ carbon output by half and trimming its energy costs by as much as $200,000 per year. AES Corporation owns the solar farms; to help fund their installation, Lamont has agreed to pay for every electron of energy they produce for the next 25 years. But the campus won’t receive the electricity directly. The energy from the solar panels will be uploaded to the electrical grid in Chester and Minisink, supplying local customers of Orange and Rockland Utilities. In turn, Lamont will receive a credit for the generated solar energy, which becomes a discount on the campus electric bill. This arrangement is known as remote net metering. The savings stem from the fact that the credits for solar energy production exceed the cost of the energy Lamont consumes. The electric rate (pennies per kilowatt-hour) for the energy produced on the solar farm is slightly higher than the rate applied on the meter where Lamont consumes energy, which is an industrial rate. “Even a fraction of a penny difference in the rates adds up quickly to real money when multiplied by several million kilowatt-hours per year,” explained O’Reilly. Each solar farm is 10 to 12 acres in size and is built on land leased from the farmers. By paying to rent the land, AES and Lamont are helping to sustain the farms. Leasing the land for the solar arrays helps to sustain local farmers. Photo: Siemens Orange and Rockland owns the utility lines and transports the energy from the local grid to Lamont. Siemens Industries designed the solar farms and put the project team. Lamont’s solar commitment will play an important role in meeting the university-wide goal of reducing carbon emissions by 35 percent in the next three years. Columbia is part of a growing movement of colleges and universities striving to shrink their carbon footprints. In 2015 New York Governor Andrew Cuomo’s administration launched the Reforming the Energy Vision Campus Challenge, a program that has encouraged New York State’s colleges and universities to build clean, resilient, and affordable energy systems. The Cuomo administration has developed a policy aimed at requiring 50 percent of New York State’s electricity to be sourced from renewable energy sources by 2030. The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) has awarded nearly two million dollars in support of the Lamont project. Lamont director Sean Solomon added, “Seventy percent of the carbon footprint of the Lamont Campus currently comes from our electricity usage, so developing these two solar farms is the largest single step we can take to reduce that footprint. We are grateful to New York State and our partners in the power industry for enabling us to pursue this investment in clean energy.” Tags carbon footprint climate change ei energy action ei impacts Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory New York City photovoltaic renewable energy solar power News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close