Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Scientists Track the Sudden Disappearance of an Antarctic Ice-Shelf Lake Climate Scientists Track the Sudden Disappearance of an Antarctic Ice-Shelf Lake A rarely seen phenomenon may not bode well for the future survival of the ice. By Kevin Krajick June 24, 2021 A global team of scientists has observed the sudden drainage of a large, deep, ice-covered lake within an Antarctic ice shelf—a rare phenomenon that could be interpreted as an ominous sign for the future survival of the ice sheet, and potential global sea-level rise. The event, chronicled in a study just published in the journal Geophysical Research Letters, occurred during the 2019 Antarctic winter on the Amery Ice Shelf in East Antarctica. The scientists estimate that 600 million to 750 million cubic meters of water, about twice the volume of California’s San Diego Bay, were suddenly lost to the ocean when the lake drained from the bottom of the 1,400-meter (4,590 feet) -thick floating ice shelf. The study’s authors used radar images from a satellite to pin down the event’s timing to within a week or less in June. After the unnamed lake drained, in its place was a crater-like depression in the ice surface, covering about 11 square kilometers (4.25 square miles). The depression, known as an ice doline, contained the fractured remains of the ice cover. The event was also captured by a laser instrument on NASA’s ICESat-2 satellite, revealing the vertical scale of the disruption. The ice surface fell as much as 80 meters (260 feet) into the doline cavity. The loss of the water load also made the floating ice shelf lighter, and ocean pressure caused it to flex upwards, with the lake’s immediate surroundings rising as much as 36 meters (118 feet). At center, the fractured ice of a doline on the Amery Ice Shelf, where a large subsurface lake drained through the bottom. Surface melt-water ponds surround the feature. (NASA) “We believe the weight of water accumulated in this deep lake opened a fissure in the ice shelf beneath the lake, [causing] the water to drain away to the ocean below,” said study lead author Roland Warner, a glaciologist at the University of Tasmania. The process, known as hydrofracturing, has been seen on other, smaller ice shelves, but rarely driving through ice as thick as this, especially in the winter. Warner said the drainage probably took about three days. “The flow into the ocean beneath would have been like the flow over Niagara Falls, so it would have been an impressive sight,” he said. While the Amery Ice Shelf has many melt-lakes and streams in austral summer, the amount of water lost from the lake was many times the annual melt water input to it. “This abrupt event was apparently the culmination of decades of melt-water accumulation and storage beneath that insulating lid of ice,” said study coauthor Jonathan Kingslake, a professor at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. Kingslake coauthored a study last year warning that many ice shelves around Antarctica could be vulnerable to eventual disintegration caused by hydrofracturing. Hydrofracturing has already been implicated in the sudden collapses of ice shelves in the warmer, more northerly Antarctic Peninsula, where melt water also forms on the surface during austral summer. In recent decades, with rising air temperatures, some ice shelves have experienced increased surface melting, and the most recent projections suggest that the trend will continue. This would increase the risk of widespread hydrofracturing, leading to more ice-shelf collapses that would in turn permit faster discharge of ice from grounded ice sheets behind the ice shelves, and and resultant increases in sea level. The uplift of the Amery Ice Shelf lake surroundings created a new lake out of a shallow arm of the original one. During the following melt season, in 2020, more than a million cubic meters of water flowed into the new lake each day for several days, then overflowed into the doline cavity. The team measured a melt-water channel 20 meters (65 feet) wide, freshly cut into the doline. It appears that the fissure below also reopened briefly in the 2020 melt season. Study coauthor Helen Amanda Fricker of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography said it is too early to conclude that the drainage of the lake was related to broader warming trends in Antarctica. But, she said, with evolving satellite-observation capabilities and more data, researchers should be able to further understand how common these deep lakes are, and how they evolve over time. The future of the newly formed doline is uncertain: It may accumulate melt water again, or drain to the ocean more frequently. But it is certain that scientists will now be watching. The study was also coauthored by Susheel Adusumilli and Philipp Arndt of Scripps; and Julian Spergel of Lamont-Doherty. With material from press releases by the University of California San Diego and the Australian Antarctic Program Partnership. Tags Antarctica Climate Science ice shelves Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory polar ice News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close