Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events How Can AI Help Us Prepare for A Changing Climate? Events Past Event How Can AI Help Us Prepare for A Changing Climate? Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 1, 2021 2:00 PM - 3:00 PM America/New_York Online Event A Virtual Fireside Chat Confronting the New Normal: How Can AI Help Us Prepare for A Changing Climate? presented by the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and the Columbia Climate School Moderator: Adam Sobel, PhD, Professor of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics and Earth and Environmental Sciences, Columbia University Adam Sobel is a professor at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Engineering School. He studies the dynamics of climate and weather, particularly in the tropics. In recent years he has become particularly focused on understanding the risks to society from extreme weather events and climate change. He directs the Columbia Initiative on Extreme Weather and Climate. In recent years Sobel has received awards from the American Meteorological Society, the AXA Research Fund, and the American Geophysical Union. He is author or co-author of over 175 peer-reviewed scientific articles; a book, Storm Surge, about Hurricane Sandy; and numerous op-eds and articles in the mainstream media, including semi-regular contributions to the New York Times and CNN. He currently hosts a podcast, Deep Convection, featuring wide-ranging conversations with other climate scientists. Panelists: Pierre Gentine, PhD, Director, LEAP; Maurice Ewing and J. Lamar Worzel Professor of Geophysics, Departments of Earth and Environmental Engineering and Earth and Environmental Sciences, Columbia University Pierre Gentine is the Maurice Ewing and J. Lamar Worzel professor of geophysics in the departments of Earth and Environmental Engineering and Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University. He studies the terrestrial water and carbon cycles and their changes with climate change. Pierre Gentine is recipient of the NSF, NASA and DOE early career awards, as well as the American Geophysical Union Global Environmental Changes Early Carrer and American Meteorological Society Meisinger award. Galen McKinley, PhD, Deputy Director, LEAP; Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University and the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory; Affiliate Professor, Earth and Environmental Engineering Galen McKinley is Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences Columbia University and the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. She also serves as Deputy Director of the Center for Learning the Earth with Artificial Intelligence and Physics (LEAP), funded from 2021-2026 by NSF. Professor McKinley is an ocean, carbon cycle and climate scientist whose research focuses on the physical, chemical and ecological drivers of the ocean’s current and future uptake of anthropogenic carbon. She earned a BS in Civil Engineering from Rice University (1995) and a PhD in Climate Physics and Chemistry from MIT (2002). Selected honors include the 2020 Ocean Science Voyager award from the American Geophysical Union and, in 2011, the Class of 1955 Teaching Award at University of Wisconsin – Madison. Contact Information Alexis Newman [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close