Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Mapping Offshore Faults in Kingston Bay Earth Sciences Mapping Offshore Faults in Kingston Bay Motion along these faults is associated with the 1907 Kingston earthquake, which shook the capital of the island with a magnitude of 6.2 By Cecilia McHugh January 19, 2022 Kingston Bay, with the Jamaican capital in the background. Photo: Cecilia McHugh Cores from the seafloor. The sediment layers contain a historic record of local conditions. Chocolate brown layers contain “event deposits.” Photo: Cecilia McHugh From January 13 to 15, we transited from the Jamaica Passage to Kingston Bay to map offshore structures near the land. Motion along these faults is thought to be associated with the 1907 Kingston earthquake, which shook the capital of the island with a magnitude of 6.2. The multicorer recovered sediment layers called “event deposits.” These layers are noted by their chocolate brown color. The sediment layers will be dated and analyzed for their chemical composition and physical properties. The goal is to understand the processes that triggered their deposition: Was it an earthquake? Was it a hurricane? On the gravity corer pipe is a probe that measures heat flow. It penetrates the sediments and measures heat flow variability associated with friction along the fault zone, providing us with information about the area’s earthquake potential. Heat flow probe attached to the gravity corer pipe. Photo: Cecilia McHugh Tags Cecilia McHugh Earthquake Hazards in Haiti and Jamaica Earthquakes Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory sediment cores News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close