Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Faculty Spotlight: Yutian Wu, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Researcher and ESP Climatology Professor Climate Faculty Spotlight: Yutian Wu, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Researcher and ESP Climatology Professor Wu started her career in mathematics before coming to Lamont and applying it to climate change and atmospheric processes. By Taylor Goto September 08, 2021 Wu started in mathematics before heading to Lamont and focusing on climate research in 2017. Yutian Wu is an associate research professor at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in the Columbia Climate School. She is a climate scientist whose work focuses on large-scale atmospheric circulation changes with regards to climate change. Wu’s current research looks at the Asian summer monsoon, mid-latitude storm tracks, jet streams, and atmospheric blocking that is associated with extreme weather events. Her most recent work emphasizes the causes and effects of Arctic sea ice loss. Outside of her work, Wu enjoys the sense of family among the staff at Lamont when eating lunches together as well as picnicking with her own family. Wu completed a bachelor’s degree in condensed matter physics. When looking to apply to graduate schools in the United States, Wu realized that she wanted her research to have more real-world applications. She then decided to focus on climate science, as climate change and atmospheric circulations affect everyone’s daily lives. Wu received her Ph.D in applied mathematics from Columbia University in 2011. She then completed a postdoctoral research associate at New York University’s Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences followed by a stint at Purdue University as an assistant professor in the Department of Earth, Atmospheric, and Planetary Sciences. She then came back to her roots at Lamont-Doherty in 2017 and has been working there ever since. Wu’s current project focuses on Arctic sea ice. She is looking into the dynamical process—known as moisture intrusion—that leads to Arctic sea ice melting as well as the potential impacts of that melting ice on atmospheric circulations. Moisture intrusion involves storm activities that bring warm and moist air from the middle latitudes to the polar regions. Wu explains that it is this moist air that causes warming in the polar regions and amplifies melting. Wu harnessed this research experience to teach the Climatology course this past summer for the Master of Public Administration in Environmental Science and Policy Program (MPA-ESP). This course serves as an introduction to how Earth’s climate system functions and how humans impact that system. Climate processes, Wu believes, are important for all people to understand. Especially for ESP students, integrating fundamental climate science can help them better understand and more effectively address the climate crisis. If students want to learn more technical skills about climate change modeling, they can enroll in her elective course in the fall semester named Climate Science for Decision Making and Modeling Analysis and Applications. Wu thinks the ESP program is great for students because it integrates science with policy and management. And the intensive summer curriculum, specifically the Climatology class, builds a solid base for students heading into it. Wu felt very motivated after teaching the summer course, she said. She was impressed by the quality and quantity of questions students had as well as the level of excitement surrounding climate science in general. Taylor Goto is an alum of the Climate and Society program, Class of 2021. If you’re interested in learning more about the MPA-ESP program, please contact the assistant director, Stephanie Hoyt ([email protected]) or attend one of our upcoming information sessions. Tags climate action Climate Crisis Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory MPA in Environmental Science and Policy News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close