Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News News News October 19, 2020 Break Codes, Solve Puzzles and Learn About Science in This Interactive Game A new “escape room–like” game for kids and families offers a fun and puzzle-filled way to explore the discoveries taking place at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. October 18, 2020 Pod of the Planet Ep. 11: Lamont’s Open House Goes Virtual In this episode Marie DeNoia Aronsohn talks with Maureen Raymo, the interim director of the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, on her vision for the institution. October 15, 2020 Scientists Harness Satellites to Track Algae Growth on Greenland Ice Sheet To measure algal blooms across large regions of the Greenland ice, and understand their effects on melting over time, scientists are turning to space. October 14, 2020 Glaciologist Benjamin Keisling on Diversity, Inclusion, and Objectivity in the Geosciences He’s working to make the geosciences an area where everyone can thrive. October 08, 2020 Coronavirus is Not Helping to Slow Down Climate Change The same level of emissions cuts reached during the pandemic would need to be repeated each year to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement by 2030. October 05, 2020 Methods Used to Reconstruct Ancient Rain Forests May Need Revision, Says Study One way in which scientists use carbon isotopes found in fossils to identify the sites of ancient rain forests may not work as expected. October 02, 2020 Our Biggest, Best Event of the Year is Going Virtual Lamont Open House at Home is four days of exciting and informative virtual earth science activities for children, families, educators, and science enthusiasts of all ages. September 30, 2020 Celebrating 150 Years Since the Birth of Thomas W. Lamont The philanthropic banker donated the estate that now houses the history-making Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. September 30, 2020 Greenland on Track to Lose Ice Faster Than in Any Century Over the Last 12,000 Years If human societies don’t sharply curb emissions of greenhouse gases, Greenland’s rate of ice loss this century is likely to greatly outpace that of any century since shortly after the end of the last ice age, a new study concludes. September 28, 2020 How Will the Ocean Carbon Cycle Evolve in the Future? New Project Aims to Find Out A new effort to analyze the ocean’s ability to take up CO2 will be important for predicting the effectiveness of climate change mitigation efforts. September 25, 2020 Project Will Delve Into How Climate and Tectonics Shaped Human Ancestors Over 25 Million Years A new project will investigate the relationships between tectonics, climate and the evolution of humans’ primate ancestors in Kenya’s Turkana Basin. September 23, 2020 Stability Check on Antarctica Reveals High Risk for Long-Term Sea Level Rise The warmer it gets, the faster Antarctica will lose ice, and at some point the losses will become irreversible. That is what researchers say in a new cover story in the leading journal Nature, in which they calculate how much warming the Antarctic Ice Sheet can survive. September 22, 2020 Europe’s ‘Great Famine’ Years Were Some of the Soggiest in Centuries Unrelenting rains led to a miserable famine in Europe from 1315-1317. Just how wet was it? A new study reveals that the beginning of the famine included some of the wettest years in the last 700 years. September 22, 2020 Warmer Temperatures Drive Arctic Greening Using satellite images spanning decades, a new study has found that the northern tundra is becoming greener, as warmer air and soil temperatures lead to increased plant growth. September 22, 2020 Pod of the Planet Ep. 10: The Ice Sheet Goeth In this episode, Kevin Krajick explores Marco Tedesco’s obsession with the cryosphere—the part of earth that consists of frozen water. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page Next › Last page Last » Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close