Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Academics and Activism: Where Global Warming and Racism Meet Education Academics and Activism: Where Global Warming and Racism Meet A new student-driven course explores race, climate change, and social justice. By Marie DeNoia Aronsohn August 28, 2020 Seminar organizers (clockwise from top left) Clara Chang, Lauren Moseley, Kailani Acosta, Anna Barth, Roger Creel, and Elizabeth Case. While racial injustice and systemic inequality have thousands taking to the streets in protest, a cadre of Columbia University’s Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences (DEES) graduate students have taken another kind of action to stand up against racism. They proposed a course designed to surface the climate crisis and its disproportionate consequences for Black and Brown people. The result is the Seminar in Race, Climate Change, and Environmental Justice, which will convene online this fall and will deeply explore where natural resource exploitation, global warming, racial injustice, and the genocide of Indigenous people meet. Atmospheric scientist Mingfang Ting and marine geophysicist Maya Tolstoy, both based at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, will teach the course, but the same group of students that suggested the topic—Kailani Acosta, Elizabeth Case, Lauren Moseley, Roger Creel, Anna Barth, and Clara Chang—were also instrumental in designing the course. We spoke to three of the students to get a sense of their vision. How did the idea for the course come about? Lauren Moseley: In early June, in the wake of George Floyd’s murder, a group of DEES graduate students began discussing the gaps in our departmental curricula. Our department excels at teaching hard science, but the students felt that we often overlook broader implications—including how racism is both entrenched in the history of earth science and perpetuated by climate change. We organized this seminar as a means of expanding the scope of DEES curricula to encompass environmental justice and allow students to complete course credits for engaging in these much-needed discussions. What do you hope to accomplish by offering the course? Clara Chang: This will provide an academic forum for the Lamont community to more broadly consider the intersectionality of their research with social justice. It is really valuable to bring together people with a lot of different perspectives who might not otherwise be thinking about these issues. Kailani Acosta: As geoscientists, we don’t often see our research in social contexts. It’s imperative to connect our scientific research to the people and places that are directly and indirectly affected. This course will offer the space and background to understand the broader social and cultural aspects of the environment and climate change. How important is it to expand understanding around diversity issues of environmental justice? Clara Chang: Environmental justice and diversity are deeply intertwined. When discussing issues such as pollution, or climate change, it is incredibly important to recognize that these issues disproportionately affect marginalized communities and communities of color. Kailani Acosta: Underlying fundamental inequalities of race, gender and class are exacerbated by environmental issues and climate change. These communities and people are often disproportionately impacted first and worst and have the least amount of leverage to change the situation. What are some of the most pressing of these issues? Clara Chang: Extreme events (extreme heat, fires, storms, flooding); air and water pollution; and sea level rise. What should students who take this course expect? Do you anticipate this course will go a long way toward shifting attitudes and beliefs? Clara Chang: We will cover a range of interesting and interdisciplinary topics ranging from the water crisis in Flint, Michigan; the historical Seneca Village excavation in Central Park; and Indigenous rights at Standing Rock. We will discuss environmental racism in New York City. We will zoom out in an international view, and discuss global efforts for adaptation following the Paris agreement. It should be a dynamic, eclectic, and thought-provoking experience. Why is it important for future research leaders to take this course? Lauren Moseley: The geosciences have a well-established whiteness problem––and this can whitewash the history that students are exposed to. This is particularly important to consider when acknowledging that American environmentalism has a deeply racist history. It is critical to better understand this past to best position ourselves to address climate and environmental injustices and dismantle the white supremacist structures which perpetuate these injustices. With the addition of this course, we aim to equip the next generation of geoscientists with the historical foundation necessary to make our field––and the work we do––more equitable and just for all. Tags anti-racism education news environmental justice Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory racism News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close