Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home People Nicholas Christie-Blick Nicholas Christie-Blick Educated in Britain, and groomed at an American plate boundary, Christie-Blick’s research deals with sedimentation processes, crustal deformation, and deep-time Earth history – currently with emphasis on the geology of the Neoproterozoic Earth. He is known also for his work in seismic and sequence stratigraphy, and the paradox of low-angle normal faulting. Christie-Blick teaches courses in sedimentary geology and tectonics, receiving the Best Teacher Award from both graduate and undergraduate students. Fields of Interest Sedimentation processes, crustal deformation, and deep-time Earth history Education Ph.D., University of California, Santa Barbara, 1979 (Geology) B.A., University of Cambridge (King's College), UK, 1974 (Natural Sciences/Geology) Honors & Awards Fellow of AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science), 2021. Dr Vikram Sarabhai Chair of the Indian National Science Academy (a speaking tour of Indian universities in February, 2020). Awarded in 2019. Presentation: “Unresolved issues in seismic and sequence stratigraphy.” Distinguished Alumnus Award, Department of Geological Sciences, University of California, Santa Barbara, 2005. 2003 Outstanding Paper in the Journal of Sedimentary Research, Stephen F. Pekar, Nicholas Christie-Blick, Kenneth G. Miller, and Michelle A. Kominz, “Quantitative constraints on the origin of stratigraphic architecture at passive continental margins: Oligocene sedimentation in New Jersey, U.S.A.” Journal of Sedimentary Research, v. 73, p. 227-245. Awarded in 2005. Best Teacher Award, selected by undergraduate students in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences of Columbia University, 2010; and by graduate students in 1996 and 2008. Fellow, Geological Society of America, 1995. Professor, Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Areas of Expertise Sedimentary geology Tectonics Contact Info Seismology 215A 61 Route 9W Palisades, NY 10964 USA 845-365-8180 [email protected] http://www.ldeo.columbia.edu/~ncb/ LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Google Scholar Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close