Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Highlights from the 2019 Lamont Open House General Earth Institute Highlights from the 2019 Lamont Open House This year’s Open House attracted more than 3,000 visitors and, just like research at Lamont, covered a vast range of subjects and regions, from under the sea to the surface of the moon. By Earth Institute October 08, 2019 On Saturday, October 5, Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory opened its doors to the public once again. Open House is a tradition that dates all the way back to 1949, allowing scientists at Lamont to share their research with the rest of the world via interactive, hands-on demonstrations and engaging talks. This year’s Open House attracted more than 3,000 visitors and, just like research at Lamont, covered a vast range of subjects and regions, from under the sea to the surface of the moon. Below you can see a few examples of all the fun we had. At this activity focused on the Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge, kids learn how wetlands and other natural obstacles can help prevent flooding and storm surges in coastal areas. Photo: Kyu Lee One exhibit let visitors touch rocks from outer space. Shown here is a slice of a meteorite that sprayed off of the moon during a collision and later landed on Earth. Photo: Sarah Fecht Closeup of a slice of pallasite meteorite. Made of olivine and metal, this meteorite is believed to have come from the boundary between the core and mantle of a small planet. Photo: Phebe Pierson All types of eruptions at Volcano World during the Lamont-Doherty open house. #LamontRocks pic.twitter.com/npY9XEKDZJ — Brett Carr (@brettbcarr) October 5, 2019 The demonstration in the gif above shows the land deformations that can build up along subduction zones, where two tectonic plates collide and one sinks under the other. Lamont’s Mike Steckler, Leonardo Seeber, and Bar Oryan are part of a team that’s studying these processes in Bangladesh, to better understand the chances of a large earthquake striking in this densely populated region. Image: Bar Oryan Lamont-Doherty’s Core Repository is one of the most extensive collections of deep sea sediment cores in the world. Here, a Barnard College undergraduate shows off a map of hundreds of sites where Lamont scientists have drilled into the seabed to collect the cores, which provide a window into past climate conditions. Photo: Sarah Fecht These deep sea cores contain sediments that were deposited 230 million years ago. The layers within the core samples contain a record of plate tectonics, volcanic eruptions, global climate change, and more. Photo: Phebe Pierson The tiny fossils under this microscope came from a deep sea sediment core. Their shells provide clues about the temperature, acidity, and CO2 conditions in the ocean millions of years ago. Photo: Sarah Fecht At Open House today: Our Adaptmap online mapper outlines #adaptation measures for #JamaicaBay; a 3-D topographical model brings the bay alive. #LamontRocks pic.twitter.com/gvikvdG40B — CIESIN (@ciesin) October 5, 2019 A scientist volunteer in the Biology and Paleo Environment exhibit shows visitors a raft similar to the ones they use when heading out to take core samples from the bottoms of lakes. Photo: Phebe Pierson A visitor waves a wrench to disrupt the readings from a magnetometer, which researchers in Lamont’s Electromagnetic Geophysics Lab use to measure the electrical conductivity through the earth. This information, combined with magnetic field measurements, has helped the team to study water flow under the Antarctic ice sheet and to discover a freshwater aquifer under the sea. Photo: Sarah Fecht Lab-mate Kailani has a very captive audience for measuring temperature and salinity in our #HudsonRiver exhibit at the Open House. #LamontRocks &#x1f30d;&#x1f30a;&#x1f600; pic.twitter.com/byb3FEnrZR — Elise Myers (@elisemmyers) October 5, 2019 Visitors to the Tree-Ring Lab learned about how dendrochronology—the study of tree-rings—works. Scientists drill a small core from a tree’s trunk and use markers within the tree-rings to learn about the history and climate of the tree’s native area. Photo: Phebe Pierson A young boy views tree rings up close under a microscope in the Tree-Ring Lab. Photo: Phebe Pierson ⁦@jim_gaherty⁩ talking about earthquakes to a packed house. #lamontrocks ⁦@LamontEarth⁩ pic.twitter.com/z5LKvjd8M2 — Donna Shillington (@djshillington) October 5, 2019 Geophysicist Robin Bell shows off a jacket she designed depicting a lunar landing and a gravimeter used to measure the moon’s gravity. Photo: Kyu Lee In July of 1971, Lamont’s lunar heat flow experiment landed on the moon with Apollo 15. Set up by astronauts on the moon’s surface, the experiment allowed scientists to measure how heat flows within the moon, in order to learn more about its geological history. The equipment remains on the moon to this day. Photo: Sarah Fecht Future scientists glued to glaciers on the goo flue with @goodnesglaciers and @Martin_Wearing at #lamontrocks’ open house 2019! pic.twitter.com/twnVFA6tVl — Elizabeth Case (@elizabeth_case) October 6, 2019 Daniel Dusevic (right) and Andrew Terraciano, juniors at Pelham Memorial High School, stand in front of a poster that details their yearlong project testing dozens of households in Pelham, Bronx for lead contamination in soil, paint and water. Photo: Kyu Lee A volunteer in the Biology and Paleo Environment tent shows a future scientist samples of seeds and leaves from different kinds of plants found in bog environments. Photo: Phebe Pierson Seismometers at @LamontEarth are sensitive enough to detect your footsteps next door. #LamontRocks https://t.co/b369Vf4PBp pic.twitter.com/xciTaGNm3Z — Earth Institute (@earthinstitute) October 5, 2019 As part of a study on lead contamination in soils, researchers encouraged participants to bring samples from their backyard in ziplock bags to be tested on site. Levels could be determined in a few minutes. Photo: Kyu Lee During the last ice age, about 18,000 years ago, New York was buried under a mile or so of ice. Lamont glacial geologist Mike Kaplan led a tour explaining how we can spot the traces left behind by the ice sheet as it retreated. One way is by looking for glacial erratics — rocks that don’t quite belong. Since the area around the campus is mostly made up of dark volcanic rocks, the white rock in this photo was likely carried into the area by the advancing ice sheet, and left behind as it retreated. Photo: Sarah Fecht One of these rocks is not like the others. Can you spot the glacial erratic? Photo: Sarah Fecht Henry Towbin, who studies magma at Lamont, shows visitors how a Plinian volcanic eruption happens, using Mentos candy and Coca-Cola. Photo: Phebe Pierson Lamont Open House was a blast!#LamontRocks pic.twitter.com/xY3SP0ui4e — Kevin Uno (@kevin_t_uno) October 5, 2019 Tags CIESIN Events featured story Lamont open house Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close