Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News The Promise and Potential of Turning CO2 to Stone Climate The Promise and Potential of Turning CO2 to Stone Now that the ‘Solid Carbon’ project has won a spot in the MacArthur foundation’s 100&Change competition, what’s next for carbon capture and storage? By Marie DeNoia Aronsohn February 19, 2020 On a planet where global concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide are higher than at any other time in human history, the need for game-changing solutions is escalating. Carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies, which remove tons of carbon dioxide from industrial processes and store them away so they can’t add to the climate crisis, are gaining attention and support. A recent review paper details how CCS can contribute to a long-term reduction in atmospheric carbon dioxide levels, and work to meet the caps on human-caused global warming written into the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement. At Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, David Goldberg is on the forefront of developing technologies with the ability to capture CO2 and turn it into stone. He has been involved in recent projects that have demonstrated that when you inject CO2 and water into basalt rock, the silicate material takes up the gas and turns it into carbonate rock. If this natural process can be enhanced, scientists believe it could be a valuable tool to solve the crisis-level airborne carbon dioxide in Earth’s atmosphere. How the Solid Carbon project works. Under an Iceland-based pilot project called CarbFix — designed and carried out with Columbia leadership — researchers proved that basaltic rock units react rapidly with CO2 captured from a power plant. The team mixed gasses generated by the Hellisheidi geothermal power plant with water and reinjected the solution into the volcanic basalt below. In nature, when basalt is exposed to carbon dioxide and water, a series of natural chemical reactions takes place, and the carbon precipitates out into whitish, chalky minerals — carbonates. Before CarbFix, no one knew how fast this might happen if the process were harnessed for carbon storage. Previous studies had estimated that in most rocks, it would take hundreds or even thousands of years. In the basalt below Hellisheidi, 95 percent of the injected carbon was fixed as carbonates within less than two years. This proof of concept was an important step. “Now it’s all about scale,” said Goldberg. CarbFix currently injects and stores about 10,000 tons of CO2 per year in solid carbonate minerals, below the land surface near the power plant. Looking to scale-up this process, Goldberg and colleagues seek to capture millions of tons of CO2 from more distant industrial sources — such as fossil fuel power plants, manufacturing plants, and refineries — and inject them into submarine basalts off the coast of Washington and Oregon. With the Solid Carbon project, the team aims to conduct offshore geophysical surveys, study the basalt reservoir, and set up a pilot injection and monitoring experiment at a site in Cascadia, at approximately the scale of the CarbFix project in Iceland. “The big idea is to get this demonstration project funded and completed,” said Goldberg. “But the even bigger picture is to then scale this up and establish a climate solution that allows for direct capture of CO2 from ambient air with permanent offshore storage. So, once these carbon capture and undersea technologies are successfully demonstrated together, we can multiply the process in many locations and really make a difference.” Today’s announcement that the “Solid Carbon” capture and storage project has been selected by the MacArthur Foundation as one of the highest-scoring proposals in its 100&Change competition offers hope. As one of the top 100 projects, Solid Carbon will be featured in an online database of high-impact ideas. Goldberg hopes this will help to attract the support needed to fund a next-level carbon capture and storage demonstration. The program is designed to connect philanthropists with vetted, high-impact projects in need of funding. From the Top 100 list, 10 finalists will be selected this spring, and the winner of the $100 million grant will be announced in the fall. Tags Carbon Capture and Sequestration featured story Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory MacArthur Foundation News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close