Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Leah Aronowsky Events Past Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Leah Aronowsky Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 11, 2022 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 61 Route 9W, Palisades, NY 10964 Monell Auditorium Show Map LDEO Earth Science Colloquium presents The Climate Crisis and the History of Science with Leah Aronowsky, Lecturer & Mellon Teaching Fellow in Society of Fellows in the Humanities, Columbia University. Dr. Aronowsky is a historian working at the intersection of the history of science and environmental history and is currently a fellow in the Columbia Society of Fellows. Leah’s current book project explores the intersections of science, capitalism, and the environment in the history of planetary-scale environmental knowledge, primarily in the twentieth-century United States. In 2019, research for this project received the Rachel Carson Prize for the best dissertation in environmental history from the American Society for Environmental Policy. Leah’s academic writing has appeared in Critical Inquiry, Environmental History, and Environmental Humanities, among other outlets. Leah also writes about contemporary climate politics in places like The New York Review of Books. Prior to joining Columbia, Dr. Aronowsky received a PhD from Harvard and was a Mellon postdoctoral fellow in environmental humanities at the University of Illinois. This talk is an introduction to the history of science—its methods, questions, and analytic sensibilities—as it relates to the climate crisis and our scientific knowledge about it. How can the history of climate change science help us better understand climate politics today? How can it help us think differently about pressing social issues like climate justice, decarbonization, and adaptation? What role can the history of science play in training the next generation of climate policymakers? A Zoom link will be provided on the day of the lecture. Contact Information Nicolas Young [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close