Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Lidya Tarhan Events Past Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Lidya Tarhan Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo December 3, 2021 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium presents The Evolution and Biogeochemical Impacts of Bioturbation with Lidya Tarhan, Assistant Professor of Earth & Planetary Sciences, Yale University. Bioturbation—sediment mixing and ventilation by burrowing animals—shapes seafloor ecology, sediment properties and global marine biogeochemical cycling. Well-mixed sediments have long been assumed to appear at the Ediacaran-Cambrian boundary. However, field-based stratigraphic analyses indicate that sediment mixing in shallow marine environments lagged significantly behind other early Paleozoic advances in benthic ecology, and that the development of bioturbation was a protracted process. An equally critical question is when and how in Earth’s history bioturbators began to substantially influence marine biogeochemistry. Recent modeling work has suggested that even limited early Paleozoic bioturbation could have driven productivity crises and ocean-wide deoxygenation—in striking contrast to macroevolutionary and macroecological predictions. In order to move forward this debate, I will present new diagenetic modeling data exploring quantitative relationships between bioturbation and global nutrient cycling—focusing on phosphorus, the ultimate limiting nutrient on geological timescales. This approach indicates, in contrast to previous studies, that bioturbation does not uniformly or unidirectionally mediate increased phosphorus burial. Bioturbation does, however, appear to have enhanced the sensitivity of carbon and oxygen cycling to environmental perturbations. The Earth Science Colloquium Series is sponsored by Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Columbia University Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences (DEES). This series provides a lively forum for discussing a wide variety of topics within the earth sciences and related fields. Colloquia are attended by the full range of scientific and technical staff at LDEO. Colloquium attendance is required of all pre-orals DEES graduate students. The Colloquium Series supports the Lamont Seminar Diversity Initiative. Zoom link will be provided the day of the seminar. Contact Information Nicolas Young [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close