Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Our Biggest, Best Event of the Year is Going Virtual Earth Sciences Our Biggest, Best Event of the Year is Going Virtual Lamont Open House at Home is four days of exciting and informative virtual earth science activities for children, families, educators, and science enthusiasts of all ages. By Earth Institute October 02, 2020 Join us October 19-22 for Lamont Open House at Home. This year, we’ll be bringing all the science fun and discovery of this iconic hands-on event right to you. Lamont Open House at Home is four days filled with exciting and informative virtual earth science activities for children, families, educators, and science enthusiasts of all ages. Among the wide range of offerings at this year’s virtual event will be: Discover Lamont: A Virtual Science Adventure Take an interactive journey through Lamont’s campus and field stations to learn about climate science. This puzzle-filled escape-room-like game will entertain, educate and keep everyone guessing! Coming soon. Interactive K-12 workshops An Open House volunteer shows visitors the Core Repository at Open House 2018. Every afternoon, two workshops for different age groups will be offered, covering a wide range of earth and environmental science topics. Each session will be led by one of our own Lamont scientists, giving learners the opportunity to gain knowledge firsthand from experts. Panel discussions Join us for live discussions with experts from across the Lamont campus, including Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, the Center for International Earth Science Information Network, and the International Research Institute for Climate and Society. Broaden your perspective on topics like sea level rise, diversity in the geosciences, the impact of climate change on health, and more. Inspiring talks Tune in each morning for a dynamic, in-depth discussion by a Lamont expert. Topics will include: climate and human evolution; predicting volcanic eruptions; what a hotter planet means for people and ecosystems; and the state of our ice sheets. Featured experts include geochemist and paleontologist Kevin Uno, volcanologist Einat Lev, climate scientist Radley Horton, and geochemist Gisela Winckler. Demonstrations Lamont scientists and researchers are creating video demonstrations and step-by-step guides so you can try science experiments in your own home! Make your own oobleck out of corn starch, build the Thwaites Glacier out of paper, and more. Revisit these demos all week on your own schedule. An Open House fan favorite uses ping pong balls to show the hurling power of volcanoes. Lab tours Get a behind-the-scenes look at where the magic (ahem, science) happens! Scientists will take you into their labs—including the iconic Core Repository—to see their samples, tools, and equipment. A young visitor inspects a specimen in the Tree Ring Lab at Open House 2019. Websites, games, and videos Many of Lamont’s research groups, including the Seismic Sound Lab and the Tree Ring Lab, are putting together games, websites, and videos that you can watch anytime you want to learn a little something. Register for Lamont Open House at Home by October 8 and you can request our LDEO To-Go Packet by mail featuring all-ages activities inspired by our research in Antarctica and Greenland. Stay tuned as we finalize our most action-packed Open House schedule yet! Visit LamontRocks.com to learn more. Tags CIESIN Events International Research Institute for Climate and Society Lamont open house Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close