Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Education Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Degree Programs in Earth- and Environment-Related Subjects Three of Columbia University's departments offer Baccalaureate degrees in areas related to the Earth and environment for Columbia College, Columbia School of General Studies, and Barnard students. Students in these departments are based mainly on Columbia's and Barnard's main campuses in Morningside Heights, Manhattan, which is a half-hour shuttle bus ride from the Lamont campus in Palisades, NY. Students from these departments participate in scientific research projects supervised by scientists affiliated with Lamont. For students enrolled in Columbia College or Columbia School of General Studies: The Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences offers majors and concentrations in Earth Science and Environmental Science. The Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology offers a major and concentration in Environmental Biology. The Department of Earth and Environmental Engineering offers a major in Earth and Environmental Engineering. For students enrolled in Barnard College: Barnard’s Department of Environmental Science offers majors and minors in Environmental Science, Environmental Biology, and Environmental Policy. Summer Intern Programs for Undergraduates The Lamont-Doherty summer intern programs offer undergraduates the chance to experience cutting-edge scientific research in the Earth, ocean, atmospheric, and environmental sciences under the supervision of a Columbia-affiliated scientist as well as special lectures, workshops, and field trips. Internships include a stipend and free housing. Our Lamont Summer Intern Program is for undergraduates from U.S. colleges and universities. Our Earth Intern Program is for Columbia and Barnard undergraduates. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close