Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Project Takes A New Approach to Gauging New York City’s Emissions Climate Project Takes A New Approach to Gauging New York City’s Emissions Estimates say the city releases about 50 million tons of carbon a year, but no one has actually measured it. A new project is trying to change that. By Elise Gout April 28, 2020 Estimates say New York City releases about 50 million tons of carbon a year, but no one has actually measured it. A new project is trying to change that. Photo: Ricardo Toledo-Crow In 2017, New York City reportedly emitted nearly 50.7 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. However, it’s difficult to know how accurate the estimate is. This kind of greenhouse gas inventory is traditionally estimated from the ground-up by collecting data from a few pollution sources, like buildings and landfills, and using those numbers to make an educated guess about emissions across the whole city. If the calculations are incorrect, or if there are processes that aren’t factored in, the emissions inventory could be wrong. To give a clearer picture of what’s really happening with New York City’s emissions, Roisin Commane, an atmospheric chemist at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, is developing a way to measure the city’s greenhouse gas outputs directly. Using an instrument positioned on a tall building in Harlem, Commane is able to gauge local air pollutant levels from the top-down. The site is the start of a planned network that would be the first of its kind in the New York City area, and one of only a handful of similar projects across the United States. Roisin Commane and her team are measuring local air pollutant levels using an instrument positioned on the rooftop of the Advanced Science Research Center Observatory on the City College of New York campus. Photo: Ricardo Toledo-Crow Current estimates of CO2, methane, and carbon monoxide vary widely depending on what method is used to calculate them, Commane explained. “Some seem more realistic than others. But we don’t know which is correct without these ‘top-down’ measurements in the atmosphere, and we won’t know what we are missing.” Commane and her team first started measuring greenhouse gases in January of 2019 after visiting the rooftop observatory of a building on the City College of New York campus. The observatory was spacious, and its location at 133rd St. and St. Nicholas Avenue meant the instrument was close enough to Midtown to detect pollution levels in air that had traveled over much of the city. “It’s unusual to be able to get a site that can do that,” Commane said. “We can’t exactly put a tower in the middle of New York City, so this is kind of the next best thing.” After testing the site in a pilot project, Commane began taking measurements again in January 2020. The device has already started to prove its worth, by revealing temporary reductions in air pollution and global warming emissions while the city responds to the COVID-19 pandemic. After the city largely shut down in March, the instrument measured 10 percent drops in carbon dioxide and methane levels, and a 50 percent drop in carbon monoxide compared to the previous spring. The instrument Commane is using is known as a cavity ring-down spectrometer, and it works by bouncing an infrared laser multiple times through a glass container of air that it sucks in from the surroundings. From that process, the team can find out the concentration of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, and methane in the atmosphere. The instrument sucks in air from the surroundings, then uses an infrared laser to find out the concentration of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, and methane in the atmosphere. Photo: Ricardo Toledo-Crow When the instrument measures a change in atmospheric concentrations, postdoctoral research scientist Luke Schiferl analyzes how much of that change is actually due to an increase or decrease in New York City emissions. Commane explained that the atmospheric concentration is a function of what has been pumped into the air (the emissions), how long that air has stayed in any one place (the influence from weather), and what was in the air before it came into the city (the background). Soot and emissions pour out of a building in New York City. Photo: Ricardo Toledo-Crow On a windy day, for example, the measurements of greenhouse gas levels could be lower even if the emissions are the same. And because the measurement site is removed from the sources of emissions, the team must also consider where the air has been. Air quality sites that routinely monitor carbon monoxide throughout New York and New Jersey help the team to establish what was in the air before it arrived in the city. Atmospheric models that include wind speed and direction help Schiferl to determine how much of a greenhouse gas the air could have picked up while traveling over a smokestack or other emissions source. Within the next year, Commane hopes to establish a network of sites that measure CO2, methane and carbon monoxide around New York City, upper New Jersey, and Connecticut. Her university affiliation would allow her to conduct measurements across state lines in ways that state environmental agencies cannot. “A lot of the transportation and import of goods happens in the Port of New York and New Jersey,” she said. “If we are careful in how we do this, we could get a much better emissions estimate for the larger metropolitan area.” Improved emissions estimates would enable local governments to track the effectiveness of their emissions reduction plans and set more detailed greenhouse gas targets. Last year, New York City committed to cutting 80 percent of its greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 compared to 2005 levels. The city also pledged to be carbon neutral by 2050, reaching a 100 percent reduction in net greenhouse gas emissions. “We have all of these policies that we are going to bring in, and we have no idea if they are going to make any difference to our greenhouse gas emissions,” said Commane. “We don’t actually know what the emissions are right now, never mind how we are going to reduce them…. What I would really like is to use this [approach] to tell whether or not the emissions sources we are trying to target are the ones we should be targeting.” All photos courtesy Ricardo Toledo-Crow at the Next Generation Environmental Sensor Lab, Environmental Sciences Initiative, Advanced Science Research Center, City College of New York. Tags Greenhouse Gas Emissions Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory net zero emissions New York City research-home News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close