Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events [ClimateWeekNYC] The Great Pivot: Climate Action & the Financial... Events Past Event [ClimateWeekNYC] The Great Pivot: Climate Action & the Financial... Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo September 23, 2021 6:00 PM - 7:15 PM America/New_York Online The Great Pivot: Climate Action and the Financial Sector with Michelle Dunstan, Radley Horton and Satyajit Bose moderated by Alex Halliday Register here As the summer of severe extremes draws to close, awareness of climate change consequences—raging wildfires, blazing heatwaves, devastating floods, severe hurricanes—underscores the need for action. What does it take to cut greenhouse gas emissions enough to bend the global warming curve? The first online Earth Series of the academic year — the first Columbia Climate School Earth Series — presents a discussion on the intersection between climate risks and the allocation of private capital, and the role of the financial services industry in achieving climate solutions. Climate School Founding Dean Alex Halliday will lead a conversation with Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory climate scientist Radley Horton, the Earth Institute’s sustainability management and economics expert Satyajit Bose, and leading asset management firm AllianceBernstein’s Michelle Dunstan to explore the power of partnerships and collaborative research to change decisions and bend the trajectory of climate change toward a more sustainable future. The Speakers: Michelle Dunstan is AllianceBernstein’s Chief Responsibility Officer and a member of the firm’s Operating Committee. In this role, she oversees AB’s corporate responsibility practices and responsible investing strategy, including integrating environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations throughout the firm’s research, engagement and investment processes. Radley Horton is a Research Professor at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. His research focuses on climate extremes, tail risks, climate impacts, and adaptation. Satyajit Bose is Professor of Practice at Columbia University, where he teaches sustainable investing, climate finance and cost benefit analysis. His research interests include the value of sustainability metrics, carbon pricing, adaptation finance and the link between investment and sustainable development in emerging markets. For more about the speakers visit the "Register Here" link above. The Moderator: Alex Halliday is the Founding Dean of the Columbia Climate School and Director of Columbia University’s Earth Institute. He joined the Earth Institute in April 2018, after spending more than a decade at the University of Oxford, during which time he was dean of science and engineering. The Climate Group has selected the Columbia Climate School as its university partner for this year’s Climate Week NYC. Running Sept. 20-26, Climate Week NYC convenes key climate leaders to accelerate climate action and discuss ambitious commitments ahead of the 26th UN Climate Change Conference, or COP26, later this fall in Glasgow. Contact Information Emilie Dufour [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close