Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home People Catalina Sanchez Roa Catalina Sanchez Roa Catalina Sanchez-Roa is a Columbia Climate School Fellow in Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). Her primary focus is proof of concept and optimization of carbon capture and storage, through carbon mineralization. Catalina designs and executes experiments that sit at the interface between geophysics and geochemistry. She uses a bespoke triaxial rock deformation rig to conduct tests on carbonation of peridotite and basaltic samples under in-situ reservoir conditions. Her research focuses on fluid-rock interaction, geomechanics in the subsurface and the role of mineralogy and rock physical properties in geological processes of importance to society and industry. She uses a combination of experimental rock deformation and analytical techniques (electron microscopy, x-ray diffraction, computerized tomography, etc.) to evaluate the changes that occur as a result of fluid-rock interaction, temperature and pressure gradients in faults and fractured zones. By quantifying rock physical properties, her work provides data to support a safer exploitation of the subsurface for energy generation and CO2 storage. This research is fundamental to the fields of geothermal energy and carbon capture and storage, both of which are crucial to achieving sustainability and a net zero future. Education Ph.D. in Earth and Environmental Sciences. July 2017 B.Sc. in Geology, July 2010 Columbia Climate School Fellow - Associate Research Scientist, Geochemistry Areas of Expertise Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) Geothermal Energy Geomechanics Experimental Rock Deformation Microscopy Contact Info 121 Comer 61 Route 9W Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Palisades, NY 10964 845-365-8569 [email protected] https://www.catalina-sanchez-roa.com LinkedIn Twitter Google Scholar Orcid Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close