Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Undersea Volcanism May Help Explain Medieval Year of Darkness Earth Sciences Undersea Volcanism May Help Explain Medieval Year of Darkness Tropical fossils found in a Greenland ice core hint at volcanic eruptions that threw the world into darkness from 536 to 537 A.D. By Sarah Fecht December 17, 2019 Starting in 536 A.D., the sky went dark for more than a year. In some parts of Europe and Asia, the sun only shone for about 4 hours a day, and “accounts say the sun gave no more light than the moon,” says Dallas Abbott, who studies paleoclimate and extraterrestrial impacts at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. The mysterious dimming of the sun brought on global cooling, famines, and civil upheavals; the Chinese reported eclipses that still can’t be explained today. Naturally, “people thought it was the end of the world,” says Abbott. The world didn’t end then, of course, but this period of intense dimming and cooling was the start of a longer period of upheaval. Trees struggled to grow from 536 to 555 A.D., suggesting that the solar dimming was extensive, and scholars don’t know exactly why. Last week, in a poster at the meeting of the American Geophysical Union, Abbott and her colleague John Barron from the U.S. Geological Survey presented a new interpretation of the event. Their analysis of a Greenland ice core points to underwater eruptions that carried sediments and marine microorganisms into the atmosphere, where they helped to dim the sunlight. Researchers discovered a high number of fossils from tropical areas (blue line) deposited in the Greenland ice during the 6th century. This indicates that underwater eruptions near the equator may have contributed to epic sky-dimming during 536-537 A.D. (The black line shows sulfate levels in the ice core, an indicator of another type of volcanic eruption.) Image: Dallas Abbott/LDEO Volcanic eruptions have been known spew sulfur and other particles into the atmosphere that can block out sunlight. But geological records only indicate big eruptions in 536 and 541, which aren’t enough to explain the nine-year downward spike in tree growth. In addition, it would require a lot of sulfur and ash to darken the sky so much, and some of that material should be visible in rock layers and ice cores. However, says Abbott, “the amount of sulfate that was deposited wasn’t as much as in other eruptions where they experience a similar amount of dimming.” That led her and Barron to suspect that perhaps impacts from space rocks could have thrown up enough dust to cause the dimming. But now, after analyzing a Greenland ice core, they have another theory. From an ice core named GISP2, the scientists carefully analyzed ice layers laid down between 532 and 542 A.D. They measured the chemistry of the meltwater, and extracted microscopic fossils to study them under a microscope. Surprisingly, the layers of the ice core contained 91 fossils of microscopic species that would have lived in warm, tropical waters. “We found by far the most low-latitude microfossils that anybody’s ever found in an ice core,” says Abbott. By comparison, they were only able to identify one high-latitude species in the mix. A few examples of microfossils found in the Greenland ice core. These species would have lived in warm tropical or subtropical waters. So what were they doing in Greenland? Image: Dallas Abbott/LDEO How did all those warmth-loving tropical and subtropical species get all the way up onto the Greenland ice sheet? The team suspects they were blown into the atmosphere by underwater volcanic eruptions near the equator. Rather than emitting lots of sulfur, these submarine eruptions (in approximately 536 and 538 A.D.) would have vaporized seawater, the rising steam carrying calcium-laden sediments and microscopic sea creatures into the atmosphere. After floating around the atmosphere for a while, some of these particles would have eventually settled in the Arctic. Equatorial volcanic eruptions in particular can affect the entire globe and, once in the atmosphere, the white sediments and microorganisms would have been very good at reflecting sunlight back into space. They’re also difficult to detect in sediment records, which explains why they hadn’t been noticed before. There is still a slight possibility that space rocks striking near the equator could have thrown the sediments and microfossils into the air, but the ice core chemistry and lack of cosmic dust in the layers makes this hypothesis less likely. “If there were impact events, they would have to be relatively small,” says Abbott. Next, she and her team would like to analyze another Greenland ice core to see whether they can replicate these surprising results. Tags American Geophysical Union American Geophysical Union 2019 featured story Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory undersea volcanoes News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close