Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Indigenous Futures Events Past Event Indigenous Futures Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo February 17, 2022 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM America/New_York Online This will be a Q&A panel event with four Indigenous climate activists. The focus of this event will be to hear Indigenous perspectives on climate change and to create a space where Indigenous voices are centered within the climate conversation. Right now, Indigenous communities protect 80% of the world’s biodiversity and indigenous technologies are used in climate adaptation efforts; however, Indigenous activists are seldom given the same platforms and support as white activists. This panel will provide the Columbia Climate Conversations community with the opportunity to consider how sustainability, resilience and world-building look from diverse Indigenous perspectives. Speakers include: Tia Kennedy is an Indigenous activist and leader in what is now known as "Canada." She carries Anishinabee and Haudenosaunee teachings from Oneida Nation of the Thames and Walpole Island First Nation. Tia is a decolonial educator and is the founder of an anti-racism consulting firm, Kiinew Kwe. She has worked as a consultant for non-profit organizations, government bodies, corporations, and universities. Her work has allowed her to support Indigenous peoples across the globe and has given her opportunities to speak about climate change on international platforms. She is a passionate caretaker for Mother Earth and wants to ensure the next generations have a place to call home. Chenae Bullock is an enrolled Shinnecock Nation citizen and descendant of the Montauk Tribe in Long Island New York. She is also African American. Chenae is an entrepreneur, pioneer, Indigenous perspective historian, and cultural practitioner. Following her ancestors footsteps as whalers and business leaders, the foundation of her work has been based on the resurgence of the traditional canoe culture of the northeast coastal Algonquin communities. She has organized historically sacred paddles in the ancient waterways of the northeastern seaboard. Some of her most recent work has led her to assess for signs of submerged cultural history for the Atlantic Shores Cultural Core Analysis. She successfully served as a Tribal Alternate on behalf of the Shinnecock Nation for the Mid-Atlantic Committee on the Ocean, which facilitates coordination and collaboration among governmental entities and stakeholders to enhance the vitality of our region’s ocean ecosystem. T. Cleopatra Doley This conversation will be hosted over Zoom and will be moderated by Columbia undergraduate student and Columbia Climate Conversations creator, Lauren Ritchie. The event will be open to anyone who RSVPs, not limited to only Columbia Students. Check out all upcoming Columbia Climate Conversations events on our website. Contact Information Earth Institute Events [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close