Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home About Anti-Racism Commitment Anti-Racism Commitment Statement on Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory’s Commitment to Anti-Racism and Institutional Change Black lives matter. We the leadership of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences are committed to making Lamont a diverse, nurturing, and vibrant community founded upon the fundamental understanding that all of its members deserve dignity and have value. We have failed science and ourselves over the last half century by unintentionally and/or intentionally excluding representative numbers of Black people, and other people of color, from our ranks. A renewed and effective dedication to anti-racist practices is imperative to the operation of a just institution and our ability to undertake the most creative, innovative, salient, and beneficial research. The geosciences are among the least diverse STEM fields in the United States and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, an international leader in science, must strive to become a leader in diversity as well. While gender diversity initiatives decreased gender disparity across our ranks over the last 25 years, our performance in recruitment and retention of historically marginalized racial and ethnic groups has not been satisfactory. We are committed to doing our part to change these demographics. We simply must do better. Our goal is to create a progressive, anti-racist, inclusive community. We must each uphold the values of diversity, equity, and inclusion in our daily practices. We must make meaningful anti-discriminatory changes to our existing academic and research infrastructures. We recognize these challenges and have established a Task Force to assess the current disparities at Lamont and recommend corrective actions. With broad representation, the Task Force has been charged with recommending plans and programs that will help build a workplace culture that prioritizes diversity, equity and inclusion at every level. Only then will our science be able to achieve its vast potential for meeting the global challenges we face. Lastly, the impetus for this statement and the Task Force came in no small part from our graduate students, postdoctoral scientists and early career researchers—we are hopeful that the rest of us will recognize their leadership and contribute to the changes we so desperately need. Maureen E. Raymo Co-Founding Dean, Columbia Climate School Director, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory G. Unger Vetlesen Professor of Earth and Climate Sciences, Dept. of Earth and Environmental Sciences Art Lerner-Lam Deputy Director Lamont Research Professor Kuheli Dutt Assistant Director, Academic Affairs and Diversity Steven Goldstein Associate Director, Geochemistry Higgins Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences Mingfang Ting Associate Director, Ocean and Climate Physics Lamont Research Professor Roger Buck Associate Director, Marine Geology and Geophysics Lamont Research Professor Rosanne D’Arrigo Associate Director, Biology and Paleo Environment Lamont Research Professor James Davis Associate Director, Seismology, Geology, and Tectonophysics Lamont Research Professor David Goldberg Associate Director, Marine and Large Programs Lamont Research Professor Jerry F. McManus Chair, Dept. of Earth and Environmental Sciences Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences Sidney R. Hemming Associate Chair, Dept. of Earth and Environmental Sciences Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close