Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Celebrating 150 Years Since the Birth of Thomas W. Lamont General Earth Institute Celebrating 150 Years Since the Birth of Thomas W. Lamont The philanthropic banker donated the estate that now houses the history-making Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. By Earth Institute September 30, 2020 September 30, 2020 marks 150 years since the birth of Thomas W. Lamont, without whom Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory would not exist. After Mr. Lamont — a banker and philanthropist — died in 1948, his widow donated the family’s summer estate to Columbia University. The tree-filled property overlooking the Hudson River in Palisades, New York, became the home of the Lamont Geological Observatory in 1949, and the site of many history-making discoveries about our planet. Born in upstate New York, Lamont attended Harvard and got his start as a journalist at the Boston Herald, New York Tribune, and other publications. He later went into business, working at Cushman Bros., a failing advertising film. Lamont helped to fix the financial situation at the company, which was later renamed to Lamont, Corliss and Company. The company bailout earned Lamont an inroad into the banking industry. He worked his way up through the Bankers Trust, the First National Bank, and J.P. Morgan and Co, where he would eventually become chairman of its board of directors. From these positions of power, he helped to establish U.S. economic policy and financial stability in many countries. His opinions and support were highly sought after. One of his grandsons remembers having lunch with him, when the phone rang and the butler said, “Mr. Lamont, it’s the President.” That would have probably been Franklin Roosevelt, says John Armbruster, a seismologist at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and the campus’ unofficial historian. Just after the stock market crashed in 1929, Time Magazine chose to put Thomas W. Lamont on its cover. Armbruster added that “In 1929, when the stock market crashed, Herbert Hoover wanted to ask what was happening on Wall Street. He called, and the telephone rang here [on what is now the Lamont-Doherty campus].” Armbruster estimates that Lamont was probably one of the 100 wealthiest people in the U.S. at the time. He and his wife, their four children, and many grandchildren enjoyed the luxurious estate in Palisades, where they would go hiking through the woods and cruising up the river on their yacht. The family made generous donations to Harvard and Exeter, as well as England’s Canterbury Cathedral. Lamont also supported several women’s causes, including women’s suffrage and women’s colleges. Thomas W. Lamont died in Boca Grande, Florida, in 1948. You can learn more about his life in the video below, narrated by Armbruster. After Lamont’s death, his widow, Florence Corliss Lamont, an alumna of Columbia University, donated the property to the university in her husband’s memory. Although the gift was unrestricted, she was reportedly pleased with the university’s plans to make it into a center of geological research, and assured that “the world [would] benefit.” Indeed it has. Through the Lamont family’s generous gift, the campus has been the birthplace of discoveries that have revolutionized our understanding of the planet. From what is now known as the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, researchers created the first maps of the ocean floor, sent seismometers to the moon, helped to explain and predict the powerful El Niño climate cycle, helped to bring climate change to light, and much more. And it will continue to make discoveries that shake the world, thanks in part to the generous donations of the Lamont family, the Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation, and many others, including donors like you. Tags History Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close