Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Hudson River Field Station Hudson River Water Quality Hudson River Water Quality The water quality of the Hudson is one of the most frequently asked questions from Hudson Valley residents. The water quality of the Hudson has improved drastically since the Clean Water Act of 1972. However, the Hudson still periodically faces water quality challenges, particularly due to elevated bacteria levels. High levels of bacteria in the Hudson occur after a rainstorm due to a 19th century wastewater treatment system called combined sewage overflow (CSO). Older cities along the Hudson such as New York City, Yonkers, Albany, and others are designed with a wastewater system that collects sewage and gray water from buildings and storm drain water in the same pipes and sends it to the wastewater treatment plant before it is released into the natural environment. The intention was positive in that all the contaminated water would be treated. Unfortunately, the system did not account for the high volume of water used by the city residents. Therefore, during periods of rainfall, the combination of sewage and stormwater volume exceeds the wastewater treatment plant’s capacity. To prevent the sewage from backing up, the system is designed to overflow and discharge the untreated sewage and storm drain water directly into the Hudson and other water bodies during excessive rain. Due to the high volume of municipal wastewater, it only takes approximately 0.1 inch of rain in an hour or 0.4 inches of rain over an entire day to induce a CSO event. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory partners with Riverkeeper, CUNY Queens College, and scientists at other institutions to study the water quality of the Hudson. With the help of a dedicated team of community scientists, the Riverkeeper Water Quality Program measures salinity, oxygen, temperature, suspended sediments, chlorophyll, and Enterococcus (Entero), a fecal indicator bacteria. Entero is a useful water quality indicator because it is abundant in sewage and correlated with human pathogens. Water Quality Reports and Research Tools can be found on the Riverkeeper’s website. To learn more about research that has been done around Hudson water quality, watch Dr. Elise Myers’s presentation Predicting Sewage Pollution Persistence in the Hudson River Estuary Using Experiments and Models. Contact Margie Turrin, Director of Educational Field Programs Laurel Zaima, Education and Outreach Coordinator Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close