Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Return of the R/V Pelican to Ocho Rios, Jamaica Earth Sciences Return of the R/V Pelican to Ocho Rios, Jamaica The expedition discovered stresses along an underwater plate boundary and a record of historic and pre-historic earthquakes, which will shed light on the geohazard risks for Jamaica and Haiti. By Cecilia McHugh February 02, 2022 As we approached Ocho Rios, Jamaica and the end of our expedition, the science team got together and summarized our new and exciting findings. We mapped the northern boundary of the Caribbean plate between Haiti and Jamaica across the Jamaica Passage. Here the submerged portion of the plate boundary is the Enriquillo-Plantain-Garden Fault. The fault is manifested by a deep trough. This trough contains three 2.5- to 3-kilometer-deep basins — the Motley, Navassa, and Moran basins — which were the focus of our study. We collected 50 seismic sub-bottom profiles and 47 sediment cores in the basins. The Enriquillo-Plantain-Garden Fault is clearly “transpressional,” meaning it accommodates lateral and compressional motions. Evidence of compressional motions are generally manifested as folded sediment layers that increase in frequency and amplitude from south to north. This compression is shifting a 50-meter-high ridge from north to south. This ridge is the surface expression of the fault and suggests that interaction between compression and shortening along the fault is shifting the plate boundary to the south. Seismic sub-bottom profile line across Motley Basin showing folded strata — evidence of compression and shortening along the plate boundary. We anticipate that large earthquakes along the Enriquillo-Plantain-Garden Fault remobilized sediment and formed event deposits. The very different sediment types composed of calcareous microfossils and iron-rich mineral grains will help to identify the deposits and their sources — microfossils raining from the water column and minerals derived from exposed basalt outcrops. The ages of the event deposits will yield a record of historic and pre-historic earthquakes along the plate boundary and help to understand the geohazards for the populations that inhabit Jamaica and Haiti. The night coring team and the day seismic team members got together upon arrival of the R/V Pelican to Ocho Rios, Jamaica on January 26, 2022. From right to left: Benjamin Freiberg , Cecilia McHugh, Justin Kersh, Victor Cabiativa, Brian Agee, Vashan Wright, Chris Fanshier, Jhardel Dasent, Leonardo Seeber, Richard Kilburn, Matthew Hornbach. Photo: Cecilia McHugh Tags Cecilia McHugh Earth Fundamentals Earthquake Hazards in Haiti and Jamaica Earthquakes Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory sediment cores News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close