Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News News News July 17, 2020 App Will Track Harmful Dust From Bauxite Mining in Guinea Researchers at Columbia are developing an app that Guinean communities can use to hold mining companies accountable for controlling the dust they produce, which can harm health and livelihoods. July 16, 2020 Groundbreaking Project Will Drill Into Bedrock Below Greenland Ice to Understand Past and Future Melting GreenDrill promises to reveal the ice sheet’s past in unprecedented detail and enable more accurate predictions of how it may add to rising seas in the 21st century. July 13, 2020 Understanding and Predicting Hurricanes in a Warmer World Scientists at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory use models and observations to understand tropical storms and advance the science of predicting them. July 13, 2020 Why Do We Need a Climate School? Climate change is already part of the curricula across Columbia, but we can make a bigger difference by working together. July 09, 2020 Lead Fallout From Notre Dame Fire Was Likely Overlooked New study estimates that a ton of lead dust may have been deposited in parks, homes, and schools near the cathedral. July 08, 2020 Scientists Warn of Wide Impacts on Midwaters Around Deep-Sea Mining Sites Interest in deep-sea mining for metals has grown substantially in the last decade. A new study argues that it poses significant risks not only to the immediate surroundings, but also to the water hundreds to thousands of feet above the seafloor. July 07, 2020 Tree Rings Show Unprecedented Rise in Extreme Weather in South America A new South American Drought Atlas reveals that unprecedented widespread, intense droughts and unusually wet periods have been on the rise since the mid-20th century. July 07, 2020 Using Sound to Study Underwater Volcanoes To find out how volcanoes in the Pacific Ocean influence earthquakes and tsunamis, a team of scientists listens for ‘echoes’ from under the sea. July 07, 2020 Anillos de Crecimiento de los Árboles Revelan Aumento sin Precedentes en Extremos Climáticos en Sudamérica Un nuevo Atlas Sudamericano de Sequía revela que las sequías severas expandidas y los períodos inusualmente húmedos sin precedentes han ido aumentando desde mediados del siglo XX. July 06, 2020 Future Hurricanes: Fast Like Ike or Slow Like Harvey? Climate change will intensify winds that steer hurricanes north over Texas in the late 21st century, increasing the odds for fast-moving storms like 2008’s Ike, compared with slow-movers like 2017’s Harvey, says new research. July 03, 2020 Reopening Mostly Erases Effects of Pandemic Reductions in CO2 Emissions Although emissions temporarily dipped due to coronavirus, the numbers are bouncing back quickly as economies reopen. July 02, 2020 It’s Time to Rethink the Practice of Whale Watching A scientist reflects on the potential harms of chasing whales with boats to try to get that perfect snapshot. June 30, 2020 Geologists Identify Deep-Earth Structures That May Signal Hidden Metal Lodes Previously unrecognized structural lines deep in the earth appear to signal the locations of giant deposits of copper, lead, zinc and other vital metals near the surface. June 19, 2020 The Amazon Continues to Burn The environmental tragedy does not stop even in the face of the pandemic. From January to April, over 1200 square kilometers of forest were wiped out. June 17, 2020 Sustainability Science Capstone Workshop Investigates Microplastics in the Hudson River A student group examined the types of microplastics entering the river, and created a way for citizen scientists to help with the research. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹ Previous Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Current page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page Next › Last page Last » Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close