Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Solomon Bililign Events Past Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Solomon Bililign Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 29, 2021 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium presents: Impact of burning conditions on Morphology, Hygroscopicity and Emission Factors of Biomass Burning Aerosol with Solomon Bililign, Professor, North Carolina A&T State University. Biomass burning is a major source of atmospheric aerosol, but their role in global climate change is poorly understood. The uncertainty of their climate forcing results from uncertainty of their optical and chemical properties, which are influenced by burning conditions, relative humidity, fuel type, morphology etc. Biomass burning (BB) is also a major source of pollutants that impact local, regional, and global air quality, and public health. However, the influence of burning conditions and fuel type on emission factors of pollutants is still not well understood. We investigated the relationship between morphology (fractal dimensions) and modified combustion efficiency (MCE). We measured emission factors of pollutants from six different sub-Saharan African biomass fuels combusted under a wide range of burning conditions (MCE’s). Enhancement in light extinction coefficient (fRH) was estimated based on the ratio of extinction coefficient measured at relative humidity between 78-92% compared to those below 78% using cavity ring-down spectroscopy (CRDS). Cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) activity was measured at four different supersaturations between 0.4-1.1%. The relationship between Dfm and the MCE shows three distinct morphology regimes, which we define as the spherical particle, the transition, and the fractal regime. Our proposed relationship of Dfm with the MCE can be used as a tool to assess the applicability of Mie theory for optical closure calculations in the absence of particle morphological information. We found that particulate matter (PM) and carbon monoxide (CO) emission factors (EF; g (kg wood)-1 ) are highly sensitive to the burning conditions, with an order of magnitude variation between flaming and smoldering burning conditions. Nitric oxide (NO) EF shows a fuel type dependence, with higher NO EF for fuels with larger nitrogen content. While CO is not generally, a proxy for PM2.5 emissions, in this work a correlation was found between CO and PM emissions generated by combustion of seven wood fuels with 10% moisture content (dry basis). Finally, we discuss preliminary comparison of measurement of f(RH) hygroscopicity and CCN hygroscopicity and factors that can modify agreements in estimated hygroscopicity values. This study adds to the growing knowledge in African fuel sources and their varied impact on climate and air quality. The Earth Science Colloquium Series is sponsored by Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Columbia University Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences (DEES). This series provides a lively forum for discussing a wide variety of topics within the earth sciences and related fields. Colloquia are attended by the full range of scientific and technical staff at LDEO. Colloquium attendance is required of all pre-orals DEES graduate students. The Colloquium Series supports the Lamont Seminar Diversity Initiative. Additional information to follow. Contact Information Nicolas Young [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close