Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home About Awards Lamont Awards Lamont Awards Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory recognizes exceptional achievements with a variety of awards for researchers and staff: Director's Award for Outstanding Research Performance Excellence in Mentoring Award Jardetzky Lecture Lamont Heritage Award Storke-Doherty Lectureship Director's Award for Outstanding Research Performance As part of the annual merit review process, the Associate Directors of the Research Divisions and the Chairman of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences are encouraged to identify and nominate to the Director an individual who has displayed exceptional levels of performance throughout the previous year. Expand all Collapse all Learn More About the Director's Award The awardee must display truly exceptional performance in both of the following areas: Research productivity as measured by the significance and impact of research papers published in peer-reviewed journals. Leadership and community service as measured by participation in National and Observatory research initiatives and activities, and mentoring of students and junior colleagues. The awardee must be clearly separated from the best of their colleagues in terms of the factors described above. All members of the Junior and Senior staff of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory are eligible. This is a $10,000 cash award. The awardee is selected by the Director in consultation with the Associate Directors. The award will not necessarily be given every year. Except in truly exceptional circumstances only one award will be given. Director's Award Recipients Award Year 2007 Awardee Richard Seager Research Area Oceanography Award Year 2003 Awardee Robert F. Anderson Research Area Geochemistry Excellence in Mentoring Award This award recognizes the importance of quality mentoring (science, technical or administrative), which benefits the institution as a whole, its junior members, and the mentors themselves. As of 2019 there will be two awards: i) Scientific mentoring; and ii) Technical/administrative mentoring. Each award recipient will receive a $2,000 cash prize and a certificate. The recipient's name will be engraved on a plaque to be displayed at the Observatory. Expand all Collapse all See Excellence in Mentoring Awardees Year 2021 Scientific Awardees Kirsty Tinto, Lamont Associate Research Professor, Marine Geology and Geophysics, LDEO Scientific Nominees Laia Andreu-Hayles, Lamont Associate Research Professor, Biology and Paleo Environment, LDEO Tech/Admin Awardees - Tech/Admin Nominees - Year 2020 Scientific Awardees Dallas Abbott, Marine Geology and Geophysics, LDEO Scientific Nominees Dallas Abbott, Roger Buck, William D'Andrea, Park Williams, LDEO Tech/Admin Awardees Nichole Anest, Biology and Paleo Environment, LDEO Tech/Admin Nominees - Year 2019 Scientific Awardees Jerry McManus, Geochemistry, LDEO Scientific Nominees Michael Kaplan, Jerry McManus, Park Williams, LDEO Tech/Admin Awardees Jean Hanley, Geochemistry, LDEO Tech/Admin Nominees Nichole Anest, Jean Hanley, Naomi Manahan, LDEO Year 2018 Scientific Awardees Jason Smerdon, Ocean Climate and Physics, LDEO Scientific Nominees Kevin Griffin, Jean Hanley, Jason Smerdon, LDEO Year 2017 Scientific Awardees Arlene Fiore, Professor, DEES Scientific Nominees Solange Duhamel, LDEO; Arlene Fiore, DEES; Joaquim Goes, David Goldberg, Jerry McManus, Richard Seager, Jason Smerdon, and Mingfang Ting, LDEO Year 2016 Scientific Awardees Robert Newton, Research Scientist, Geochemistry, LDEO Scientific Nominees Laia Andreu Hayles, Louise Bolge, Arlene Fiore, Jim Gaherty, Robert Newton, Steve Goldstein, Andy Juhl, Heather Savage, Jason Smerdon, LDEO; Elisabeth Sydor, Xiaoshi Xing, CEISIN Year 2015 Scientific Awardees Natalie Boelman, Biology and Paleo Environment and Gisela Winckler, Geochemistry, LDEO Scientific Nominees Xiaoshi Xing, CIESIN; Alessandra Giannini, IRI; Natalie Boelman, Louise Bolge, Wallace Broecker, Steven Goldstein, Robert Newton, Pratigya Polissar, David Walker, Gisela Winckler, LDEO Year 2014 Scientific Awardees Daniel Osgood, International Research Institute for Climate and Society (IRI) * Honorable Mention: Natalie Boelman, Sidney Hemming, Peter Kelemen, Gisela Winckler, LDEO * Special Mention: Mark Becker, Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN) Scientific Nominees Mark Becker, CIESIN; Pietro Ceccato, Daniel Osgood, IRI; Michela Biasutti, Natalie Boelman, Louise Bolge, Wallace Broecker, Sidney Hemming, Peter Kelemen, Yochanan Kushnir, Gisela Winckler, LDEO Year 2013 Scientific Awardees Bärbel Hönisch, Geochemistry, LDEO Scientific Nominees Nominees: Robert Anderson, Louise Bolge, Merry (Yue) Cai, Jean Hanley, Bärbel Hönisch, Susanne Straub, LDEO Year 2012 Scientific Awardees Joerg Schaefer, Geochemistry, LDEO Scientific Nominees Bärbel Hönisch, Joerg Schaefer, Catherine Tozer, LDEO Year 2010 Scientific Awardees Adam Sobel, Ocean and Climate Physics, LDEO Scientific Nominees Nicholas Christie-Blick, Edward Cook, Sidney Hemming, Juerg Matter, Naomi Naik, Adam Sobel, Maya Tolstoy, LDEO Year 2009 Scientific Awardees Alexey Kaplan, Ocean and Climate Physics, LDEO Scientific Nominees Nicholas Christie-Blick, Alexey Kaplan, Douglas Martinson, Juerg Matter, LDEO Year 2005 Scientific Awardees Marc Spiegelman, Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics, LDEO Scientific Nominees Beate Liepert, Marc Spiegelman, Bruno Tremblay, LDEO Year 2004 Scientific Awardees Kevin Griffin, Biology and Paleo Environment, LDEO Scientific Nominees Bruno Tremblay, Kevin Griffin, Marc Spiegelman, LDEO Year 2003 Scientific Awardees Robert Anderson, Geochemistry, LDEO Scientific Nominees Robert Anderson, Marc Spiegelman, Dale Chayes, Jean Lynch-Stieglitz, Robin Bell, Bruno Tremblay, Kevin Griffin, LDEO Year 2002 Scientific Awardees Gordon Jacoby, Tree Ring Lab, LDEO Scientific Nominees Robert Anderson, Gordon Jacoby, Marc Spigelman, Jean Lynch-Stieglitz, Bill Ryan, Robin Bell, Marc Levy, LDEO Year 2001 Scientific Awardees Sidney Hemming, Geochemistry, LDEO Scientific Nominees Robert Anderson, Robin Bell, Mark Cane, Peter DeMenocal, Sidney Hemming, Alexey Kaplan, Bill Menke, William Ryan, Chris Scholz, Marc Spiegelman, Martin Visbeck, LDEO See Selection Criterion for Excellence in Mentoring Award The sole criterion for the award is excellence in mentoring. The following are just some of the qualities that can contribute to good mentoring. A candidate need not have all of these qualities to be considered an excellent mentor. provides intellectual leadership, by acting as an advisor or guide in research develops an effective environment for research and scholarship fosters the development of talents, for example research skills, teaching ability, presentation and writing skills, time management skills or the preparation of grant and fellowship applications fosters the development of technical skills and provides crucial support and guidance for acquiring expertise in a specialized research environment, such as the laboratory, in the field, and on research cruises, etc. acts as a successful professional role model acts as an advocate and guide in administrative matters promotes young scientists within the broader research community and helps young scientists develop a network of professional colleagues advises young scientists regarding career options, including both academic and alternative career choices, and alerts young scientists to opportunities to enrich their careers is supportive on both a professional and personal level involves young scientists in the full range of the scientific process, from defining a problem to reporting results See Selection Process for Excellence in Mentoring Award Nominators should submit a letter of nomination (not to exceed 2 pages) describing how the nominee has been instrumental in supporting, encouraging, and promoting their professional development. Nominators are encouraged to cite as many specific examples as possible. Renominations are encouraged. Nominators are encouraged to solicit letters in support of the nomination from individuals who have been directly mentored by the nominee within the last two years. The nominator may also solicit letters of support from persons outside Lamont, who, within the past two years, were mentored by the nominee at Lamont. Letters of support should not exceed 2 pages each. Letters of support containing substantive statements about the nominee's mentoring abilities and style (see section I) will be most helpful to the selection committee. Letters of support are not required for full consideration of a nominee, but will likely strengthen his or her case. Note: In order to protect privacy and confidentiality, individual letters for each nominee must be submitted by the letter writer directly to the committee, and not as part of a larger dossier. All materials will be confidential. The selection committee will evaluate the submitted letters and provide the Directorate with a recommendation of one individual in each category to receive the award. The top three nominees will be recognized at the award ceremony. See Eligibility for Excellence in Mentoring Award Nominees All members of LDEO, IRI, and CIESIN, with at least 5 years of service (not including time as a graduate student) are eligible for the award. Past recipients of the award are eligible for re-nomination after 5 years. Nominators All members of LDEO, IRI, and CIESIN may submit nominations. Nominations may also be submitted by persons outside of these units who were members of these units within the past two years. Further, nominations may be submitted by individuals from related CU departments - e.g., Barnard, APAM, E3B, EEE - if they were mentored by a member of LDEO, IRI, or CIESIN. The nominator must have been directly mentored by the nominee, but the nominee need not be the nominator's principal mentor. Each person may submit one nomination per year. There is no limit on the number of supporting letters an individual may submit. Letters of nomination and letters of support will be kept on file for at least one year. If re-nominated, letters of support will be reused by default unless withdrawn or replaced by the author. Further, if an individual is re-nominated more than once, the committee will review the three most recent nomination dossiers for that individual in the last five years. Members of the selection committee may not submit nominations or supporting letters and are ineligible for the award during their time of service on the committee. See Award Selection Committee for Excellence in Mentoring Award Charge The committee will evaluate the letters of nominations and the nominating and supporting letters. The committee will provide the Director's Office with a recommendation of one individual to receive the Excellence in Mentoring Award. The award will be presented at a ceremony. In addition to recommending an award recipient to the Observatory Director, the selection committee will also: consider mentoring at the Observatory in a broad sense, and make recommendations to the Director about how to improve mentoring; plan an event that highlights the importance of mentoring to accompany the award ceremony; recommend to the Observatory Director new committee members for the following year. 2022 Membership Role Chair Members Vicki Ferrini, Senior Research Scientist, Marine/Large Programs; Associate Director for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Role Award Recipients from Previous Two Years Members Jean Hanley, Geochemistry - 2019 Tech/Admin Awardee Co-Chair: Jerry McManus, Geochemistry - 2019 Scientific Awardee Role Representative from IRI Members TBD Role Graduate Students (2) Members Christine Chesley, MGG Henry Towbin, Geochemistry Role Lamont Research Professor Members Jim Davis, SGT Role Research Scientist Members Daniel Westervelt, OCP Role Staff Associate Members Sheean Haley, BPE Role Postdoctoral Research Scientist Members Rachel Lupien, MGG Role Representative from CIESIN Members TBD The Assistant Director of Academic Affairs and Diversity is a non-voting ex-officio member of the committee. In years when award recipients from the previous two years are not available to serve on the selection committee, these positions will be filled by Observatory Director. In years when appropriate, the committee will add members from the technical and/or administrative staff. Committee members will be asked to serve for a term of two or three years, at the discretion of the Observatory Director. Jardetzky Lecture The Jardetzky lecture in geophysics honors the late Wenceslas S. Jardetzky, a renowned researcher and educator whose flourishing scientific career in Europe was halted by World War II and revived after he emigrated to the United States. From 1949 until his death in 1962, he was a research associate at Lamont-Doherty, where he collaborated with Frank Press, former president of the National Academy of Sciences, and Maurice Ewing, Lamont-Doherty's founder, on a well-known and widely used scientific book, Elastic Waves in Layered Media. Dr. Jardetzky's broad scope of scientific interests also included celestial mechanics, fluid dynamics, theoretical physics, seismology, and the migration of the poles. A principal contribution to science was his mathematical theory on zonal rotation, which provided a mechanism for the migration of continents. The Jardetzky lecture was established in 1992 by Dr. Jardetzky's son Oleg, who was the founder of the Magnetic Resonance Laboratory and professor of molecular pharmacology at Stanford University. In endowing the lectureship, Dr. Jardetzky said he hoped it would "help enrich the outstanding tradition of the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, which provided a much cherished intellectual home to my father after he emigrated to this country." Expand all Collapse all See Jardetzky Lectures Year 2022 Lecturer Karen M. Fischer, Brown University Lecture Understanding the Asthenosphere Year 2017 Lecturer Kenneth A. Farley, California Institute of Technology Lecture Geology on Mars: Ongoing Results from Curiosity and Planning for the Next Mars Rover Year 2016 Lecturer Peter Molnar, University of Colorado, Boulder Lecture Laurentide Ice sheets, the Emergence of the Isthmus of Panamá, and the Great American Biotic Interchange: A Red Herring Inserted Between Climatic Cause and Biological Effect Year 2015 Lecturer Roger G. Bilham, Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado, Boulder Lecture Crustal Deformation at the Ends of the Himalayan Arc: Rotating Rivers and Mile-High Medieval Floods Year 2014 Lecturer Jerry X. Mitrovica, Harvard University; Canadian Institute for Advanced Research (CIFAR) Lecture Postmodern Geophysics and Ice Age Climate Year 2013 Lecturer John P. Grotzinger, California Institute of Technology Lecture Curiosity's Mission at Gale Crater, Mars Year 2012 Lecturer Ellen Mosley-Thompson, The Ohio State University Lecture Past and Contemporary Climate Change: Evidence from Earth’s Ice Cover Year 2010 Lecturer Stephen R. Rintoul, CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research Lecture The Global Influence of the Southern Ocean Year 2009 Lecturer Sallie W. Chisholm, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lecture Too Small to See, Too Big to Ignore: What Prochlorococcus Has Taught Me About Life and the Ocean Year 2008 Lecturer Donald Forsyth, Brown University Lecture Seismological Observations of Small-scale Convection in the Mantle from the East Pacific Rise to California Year 2007 Lecturer Inez Fung, University of California, Berkeley Lecture Changing Carbon Cycle and Accelerating Climate Change Year 2006 Lecturer Barbara Romanowicz, University of California, Berkeley Lecture The Origin of the Earth's "Hum": Bridging the Gap between Seismology and Oceanography Year 2005 Lecturer Nicolas Gruber, University of California, Los Angeles Lecture Recent Insights into the Anthropogenic Perturbation of the Global Carbon Cycle Year 2003 Lecturer Alan Levander, Rice University Lecture Imag(in)ing the Continental Lithosphere Year 2002 Lecturer David Karl, University of Hawaii Lecture A Sea of Change: Decade-scale Biogeochemical Variability in the North Pacific Subtropical Gyre Year 2000 Lecturer Veerabhadran Ramanathan, University of California, San Diego Lecture A Climate: Do We Really Understand How We Are Changing It? Year 1999 Lecturer John Delaney, University of Washington Lecture Submarine Research in the 21st Century: A Fiber Optic Telescope to Inner Space Year 1998 Lecturer Peter Raven, Director, Missouri Botanical Gardens Lecture Biogeography, Biodiversity and Human Futures Year 1996 Lecturer Nick Shackleton, Godwin Laboratory, University of Cambridge Lecture Climate Cyclicity on Geological Timescales Year 1995 Lecturer Dan McKenzie, Bullard Laboratories, University of Cambridge Lecture Thirty Years as a Geophysicist, or Why We Now All Have to Become Geochemists Year 1994 Lecturer Sean Solomon, Director, Department of Terrestrial Magnetism, Carnegie Institution for Science Lecture The Geophysical Evolution of Venus: Why Does Earth's Sister Planet Bear So Little Family Resemblance? Year 1993 Lecturer Ted Irving, University of Victoria Lecture Rhododendrons, Plate Tectonics and Global Climate Change Year 1992 Lecturer Frank Press, President, National Academy of Sciences Lecture Can Scientists Provide Credible Advice in Washington? Lamont Heritage Award The Lamont-Doherty Heritage Award is bestowed on staff or students of the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory whose work has helped shape the future of the Observatory and has contributed profoundly to its position as a world leader in research to understand the Earth. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory has a distinguished history of scientific discovery. Numerous organizations have honored the achievements of these scientists, but unfortunately the institution which trained and sustained them has not. To remedy this oversight, the Observatory has created the Lamont Heritage Award. The first recipient is Marie Tharp, the pioneering mapper of the seafloor. Past awardees: Date: 2001 Awardee: Marie Tharp Storke-Doherty Lectureship The Storke-Doherty Lectureship is a four-year term award made jointly by the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences. The Lectureship is awarded annually, subject to the availability of funds and qualifying candidates, to an individual selected from among the pool of eligible candidates on the basis of outstanding scientific merit and potential. Expand all Collapse all Learn More About the Storke-Doherty Lectureship Privileges and Responsibilities Appointment to the Storke-Doherty Lectureship carries the Salary Support Plan that accompanies appointment to Doherty Associate Research Scientist (3 months per year), and in addition provides the awardee with 6 months of salary per year for the four-year term. Storke-Doherty Lecturers are full-time employees of Columbia University and are expected to raise the remainder of their salary from other sources. The Storke-Doherty Lecturer holds a term faculty appointment, and participates as a non-visiting member in regular faculty meetings. The award normally carries the responsibility of teaching a University lecture course, or the equivalent, every other year. The course selection requires the approval of the Faculty of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences. Eligibility Eligible candidates are all Postdoctoral Fellows, Postdoctoral Research Scientists, Associate Research Scientists, and Doherty Associate Research Scientists who have not yet reached the fourth anniversary of the award of their Ph.D. (or equivalent), and who joined LDEO during the two calendar years prior to the start of the award process. Selection Process Storke-Doherty Lecturers are selected by the LDEO Director and the Chair of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, based upon recommendations from the Storke-Doherty Lecture Committee. The Storke-Doherty Committee comprises 6 members of the Doherty Research Staff. The Chair of the Storke-Doherty Committee identifies the eligible candidates and sends the list to the other members of the Committee, by National Election Day (early November), for information and correction. By Thanksgiving, the Chair solicits from those eligible (and who wish to be considered) a CV, a statement of research interests that should include a brief outline of funding strategies, and copy of their best paper, and a statement of teaching interests. The Committee reviews this material, and produces a rank list of candidates by the beginning of the spring semester. Documents provided by the candidates (not letters from sponsors) form the basis for ranking candidates. The rank list of candidates prepared by the Storke-Doherty Committee is reported to the Director and to the Chair of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences. Either the Director, the Chair, or both, may request once that the Committee reconsider the composition and/or rank order of their list. The rank listing resulting from such reconsideration will then be final. If the Director and/or the Chair are unable to endorse this list, then no award will be made in that cycle. Otherwise, the awards will be made to the highest person on the rank list who accepts the offer. Review Review will be the same as for all persons holding the rank of Doherty Associate Research Scientist. See Storke-Doherty Lectureship Awardees Year 2008 Awardee Natalie Boelman, Biology & Paleo Environment Year 2007 Awardee Jason Smerdon, Ocean & Climate Physics Year 2006 Awardee Tina van de Flierdt, Geochemistry Year 2004 Awardee Del Bohnenstiehl, Marine Geology & Geophysics Year 2003 Awardee Nili Harnik, Ocean& Climate Physics Year 2002 Awardee David Ho, Geochemistry Year 2002 Awardee Thomas Marchitto, Biology & Paleo Environment Year 2001 Awardee Alberto Saal, Geochemistry Year 2000 Awardee Bruno Tremblay, Ocean & Climate Physics Year 1999 Awardee Donna Witter, Ocean & Climate Physics Year 1998 Awardee Einat Aharonov, Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Year 1997 Awardee Martin Visbeck, Ocean & Climate Physics Year 1996 Awardee Xiaodong Song, Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Year 1995 Awardee Bruce Shaw, Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Year 1994 Awardee Neil Driscoll, Marine Geology & Geophysics Year 1994 Awardee Deborah Colodner, Geochemistry Year 1993 Awardee Marc Spiegelman, Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close