Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News News News February 11, 2020 Celebrating the International Day of Women and Girls in Science Women scientists play an essential role in the Earth Institute’s mission to understand how the planet works, how humans are changing it, and how to build a sustainable future. February 07, 2020 The Latest in Climate Change Attribution and the Law A new paper provides a comprehensive overview of our understanding of how humans are affecting the global climate system, and its application in legal settings. February 07, 2020 A Greener Red Carpet In your Oscar speech, don’t just preach sustainability — wear it. February 05, 2020 Greenland Rising: The Future of Greenland’s Waterfront While much of the world is planning for flooding and inundation from changes in sea level, Greenland is facing a much different future. January 27, 2020 Wine Regions Could Shrink Dramatically With Climate Change Unless Growers Swap Varieties Diversity is key to resilience, says new study. January 23, 2020 Bridging the Air Pollution Data Gap in Sub-Saharan Africa Dan Westervelt, a 2019 Center for Climate and Life Fellow, received funding to address the ongoing air pollution crisis in three large sub-Saharan African cities. January 21, 2020 Pioneer in Charting Modern Sea Level Rise to Receive 2020 Vetlesen Prize A scientist who has played a key role in documenting modern sea level rise and its causes is to receive the 2020 Vetlesen Prize for achievement in the earth sciences. January 20, 2020 Ozone-Depleting Substances Caused Half of Late 20th-Century Arctic Warming, Says Study A study finds that ozone-depleting substances caused about a third of all global warming from 1955 to 2005, and half of Arctic warming and sea ice loss during that period. January 13, 2020 A Guide to the Good, Low-Carbon Life For about 10 years, environmental law professor Karl Coplan has been trying to winnow down his direct footprint of CO2 emissions. He has been successful, and has just published a book chronicling his efforts. January 13, 2020 Completing My Fieldwork and Returning to Dhaka My last days in the field brought us to monuments in a makeshift home near the ocean, a flooded field next to a school, and adjacent to a jute mill. Most of us now head back to Dhaka, the capital. Céline will stay on a few more days, then Hasnat with Saif and Nahin will continue until all the monuments are resurveyed. January 10, 2020 Long Days in the Field in Southern Bangladesh We continued our GPS surveys of monuments to measure land subsidence. While the work general went very well, we faced challenges from obscured or tilted monuments. We also struggled with large traffic delays, particularly at unpredictable ferry crossings. January 10, 2020 What’s a Climate Scientist to Wear During Awards Season? Leading researchers design formal wear with a scientific edge January 09, 2020 Installing GPS Around Barisal, Bangladesh Getting to remote sites started to prove challenging, and involved many forms of transportation by land and water. January 08, 2020 Evolving Landscape Added Fuel to Gobi Desert’s High-Speed Winds A new study uncovers a previously undocumented relationship between erosion and wind speed. January 04, 2020 Back to Bangladesh: How Fast is the Delta Sinking? I am back in Bangladesh once more to investigate the balance between sea level rise, the sinking of the land, and the filling of the space with sediments. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹ Previous Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Current page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Next page Next › Last page Last » Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close