Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News New Citizen Science Project Asks: Is It Snowing Plastics? Earth Sciences New Citizen Science Project Asks: Is It Snowing Plastics? The PlastiX-Snow project will track microplastics that contaminate Earth’s most remote and pristine locations. By Marie DeNoia Aronsohn December 20, 2019 The ubiquitous nature of microplastics is stunning. These tiny bits of plastic — which can wash out of our clothing, facial exfoliants, and other products, or come from the breakdown of larger plastic items — are everywhere. They are in the oceans and rivers, fish and soil, and even in the atmosphere. And they are not going anywhere. Plastic never biodegrades — it just breaks down into tinier pieces of plastic. That means all of the plastic we’ve ever created on Earth still exists. Even if it’s been recycled, it’s still here. Laural Zaima presented the PlastiX-Snow project in a poster at the fall meeting of the American Geophysical Union in December 2019. Photo: Marie DeNoia Aronsohn New and developing research at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory suggests microplastics are turning up even in the most remote and essentially untouched areas of the planet, coming to rest in places like Greenland and Antarctica, transported by snowfall. This discovery has sparked a line of inquiry and a new citizen science project called PlastiX-Snow. The project will start in New York state, but is expected to expand. It is an outgrowth of the X-Snow Project, which has recruited volunteers to study how climate may be affecting the distribution of snowfall, and the structures of individual snowflakes. “We’d been doing microplastic research in the Hudson River. I wondered if there was any research on microplastics being disseminated by snow in different areas around the world,” explained Laural Zaima, project collaborator and Lamont education program assistant. “Turns out there’s not much research on that. So, that was when we were thinking we could do a citizen science project where people from all over the country can collect snowfall, and then we can melt it and analyze it at the labs in Lamont to see how much plastic is in the snow.” To test the concept, Lamont glaciologist Marco Tedesco, working with contacts in Aspen, Colorado, obtained two large mason jars of melted snow. Together, with Joaquim Goes — a Lamont microbiologist with a specialized microscope — Tedesco and Zaima found the samples were indeed heavily contaminated with microscopic plastic particles. Microplastics found in snow from Aspen, Colorado. Photo: Tedesco and Zaima/Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory “This tells us that even if you don’t have local pollution that’s impacting an area, it doesn’t mean pollution doesn’t exist there,” said Zaima. “These plastic fibers and fragments are so small they can be atmospherically transported to a new pristine area and then fall as snow, so that even areas untouched by humans can be polluted.” However, there is much still to explore and understand about how much plastic is falling with the snow, and where and how the microplastics get into the snow. Tedesco noted that winds could be transporting the plastic particles and depositing them onto the snow in these remote places. He also theorized that the plastic particles could be so small that they act as nuclei for water molecules to wrap around, getting built-in to the snow before it falls. Thus, it is especially important that the scientists gather fresh snowfall that has not had periods of exposure to wind-driven microplastics or contaminants. The PlastiX-Snow citizen science project requires a sophisticated process that involves teaching participants the methods to discover microplastics from snowfall in their local area. Citizen scientists will work with specially designed snow collectors, a filter syringe to isolate the microplastics, and a fluorescent light and filter to illuminate the microplastics under a USB microscope. Glass vials are provided to citizen scientists to send snowmelt samples to Lamont for intensive analysis involving the high-powered microscope. More details are available on the PlastiX-Snow website. Tedesco and Zaima are also planning to expand their research to look for plastic in lake sediment cores, which hold a record of Earth’s past climate and weather, collaborating with Lamont’s Billy D’Andrea, an expert in this area. They want to dig deeper, to get the best possible idea of how pervasive plastic pollution is now and has been. Tags American Geophysical Union American Geophysical Union 2019 featured story Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory microplastics research-home News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close