Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Researchers Map New York State Methane Emissions With a Mobile Laboratory Climate Researchers Map New York State Methane Emissions With a Mobile Laboratory Scientists are using mobile instruments to measure and hopefully help reduce emissions from landfills, cities, farms, waste treatment plants and other sources where mitigation measures could be put in place. By Columbia Climate School February 22, 2022 Dairy farms are one target for reducing New York state’s methane emissions. (Max Pixel) While carbon dioxide emissions have received most of the attention in the fight against global warming, there are other lesser-known greenhouses gases, including methane. The primary component of natural gas, methane is the second largest contributor to climate change behind carbon dioxide, due to its high volume in the atmosphere and strong effects. According to the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, methane now accounts for some 35 percent of the state’s greenhouse gas emissions. Researchers have begun a project that aims to locate New York’s largest sources of methane emissions, using mobile laboratory equipment to collect data across the state. Supported by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, the undertaking includes researchers from the University at Albany, Columbia University, Ithaca College and the University of Rochester. “Methane concentrations are increasing globally, including close to home, due to a number of reasons such as leakage from oil and gas infrastructure, agricultural practices, and inadequate mitigation at landfills and wastewater treatment plants,” said Jim Schwab of the University at Albany’s Atmospheric Sciences Research Center, who is leading the project. “There is a really large methane signal from New York City that is a mixture of many different sources,” added Róisín Commane, an atmospheric scientist at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and co-principal investigator. “Our work is focused on identifying and quantifying the contributions of these different sources to overall methane concentrations so we can help state regulators and policy makers.” The group’s mobile laboratory is situated in the cargo compartment of a 2007 Mercedes-Benz Sprinter van. It contains instruments that can measure methane concentrations, along with other pollutants. The team has already completed two three-week deployments, in May and November, and is gearing up for a third this spring. The deployments have so far included the New York City metro area, and central and western New York. Targets have included landfills, urban areas, wastewater treatment facilities, farms and other potentially controllable emission sources identified from previous research and advanced satellite data. Deployments typically last four to eight hours before batteries powering the instruments need a recharge at a base station. Additional aerial measurements are being collected for the project using a research aircraft. The group has been measuring and modeling methane at fixed air-quality monitoring sites for the past several years. They hope the mobile measurements will add new spatially diverse measurements into their analyses. “One area we are particularly interested in is evaluating the impacts of management practices to help dairy farmers to move towards sustainability,” said Eric Leibensperger, an assistant professor at Ithaca College and co-principal investigator. In February, the state finalized new regulations to reduce methane and other emissions statewide from oil and gas infrastructure. New York’s 2019 Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act requires that greenhouse gases to be reduced by 40 percent by 2030 and 85 percent by 2050. The researchers plan to share their findings with the state to better understand, control and regulate future methane emissions. Adapted from a press release by the University at Albany. Tags climate change cs highlights ei highlights Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory methane New York State News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close