Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News News News August 20, 2020 Fossil Leaves Show High Atmospheric Carbon Spurred Ancient ‘Global Greening’ Scientists studying leaves from a forest that stood during a warm period 23 million years ago have for the first time linked high levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide with increased plant growth, as well with the high temperatures of the time. August 18, 2020 STEMSEAS: Not Just an Internship, An Adventure The seagoing expedition program designed to bring diversity to the geosciences goes virtual. August 14, 2020 Fall 2020 Earth Institute Internship Opportunities The Earth Institute is offering undergraduate, graduate and PhD students opportunities to intern in various departments and research centers in a variety of administration, communications and research roles. August 14, 2020 Fall 2020 Earth Institute Research Assistant Opportunities The Earth Institute is offering undergraduate students with research assistant opportunities during the fall 2020 semester. Undergraduates from Columbia and Barnard will be able to serve as research assistants on projects related to sustainable development and the environment. August 11, 2020 Treading on Shrinking Ice In a new book, glaciologist Marco Tedesco takes the reader on a personal journey through his sometimes dangerous work. August 10, 2020 Stronger Rains in Warmer Climate Could Lessen Heat Damage to Crops, Says Study Intensified rainstorms predicted for many areas in the United States as climate warms could more efficiently water some major crops, which would at least partially offset projected yield declines caused by rising heat itself. August 04, 2020 Iceland’s Most Active Volcano is Likely Headed for Another Eruption Monitoring and data suggest the next eruption of the glacial volcano could be anywhere from days away to within the next year. Grímsvötn last erupted in 2011. August 03, 2020 Summer Stars Lecture Series Begins With a Message of Hope In a talk last week, celebrated conservationist and photographer Cristina Mittermeier shared her quest to save the sea. July 31, 2020 The Planet Has a Fever A recent study shows heat waves are growing longer and more frequent in almost every part of the world. The findings emphasize the need to take action against climate change. July 30, 2020 Pod of the Planet Ep. 8: Marie Tharp’s Girl Talk In this episode of Pod of the Planet, we celebrate the life of Marie Tharp and the inspiration she has been and continues to be to many scientists today. July 29, 2020 8 Surprising Facts About Marie Tharp, Mapmaker Extraordinaire Maybe you already know that she created some of the first maps of the ocean floor and helped discover plate tectonics. Here are some lesser-known facts about this history-making cartographer. July 27, 2020 Lamont’s Marie Tharp: She Drew the Maps That Shook the World On the 100th anniversary of her birth, her grit and brilliance are as legendary as her work. July 24, 2020 Marie Tharp’s Adventures in Mapping the Seafloor, In Her Own Words The pioneering mapmaker explains how she and colleagues discovered underwater mountain ranges 40,000 miles long, and helped to prove that the continents move. July 23, 2020 Join Us in Celebrating #MarieTharp100 July 30 marks 100 years since the birth of Marie Tharp, a pioneering geologist who created some of the first maps of the ocean floor. We’re celebrating her achievements and legacy with blog posts, giveaways, and more. July 22, 2020 Lamont-Doherty Program Aims to Bring More Diversity to Earth Science The Secondary School Field Research Program offers a diverse group of young people a unique opportunity to do field and laboratory research. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹ Previous Page 1 Page 2 Current page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page Next › Last page Last » Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close