Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events BPE Seminar | William Precht Events Past Event BPE Seminar | William Precht Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo May 17, 2022 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM America/New_York Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 61 Route 9W, Palisades, NY 10964 Comer Building, 1st Floor Conference Room Show Map This is a hybrid event. Please contact the seminar organizer for the Zoom link. We ask that you log in with your full name. Global Climate Change and Coral Reef Decline: 50-Year Retrospective from the Florida Keys Anthropogenic emissions are increasing the concentration of atmospheric CO2 by nearly 2 ppm each year, warming the land, atmosphere, and oceans. In response, sea-surface temperatures (SSTs) along the Florida Reef Tract have been warming for the last century. Significant warming in the late 1970s, concurrent with the beginning of regional coral bleaching and disease outbreaks, led to the rapid population declines of the foundation reef species. The regional ocean surface warming rate from 1985–2009 was 0.27°C per decade, roughly three times greater than the observed global average. More recently, significant mass coral bleaching events in 2014–2015 and the subsequent emergence of stony coral tissue loss disease (SCTLD) has resulted in a depauperate coral community now dominated by weedy, non-reef-building corals. Extensive evidence mechanistically links carbon emissions with ocean warming, ocean warming with coral bleaching and disease outbreaks, and these have been and continue to be the primary drivers of coral mortality at both local and regional scales. These linkages highlight the importance of the need for science-based management of ecosystems at the largest spatial scales. Failure to address climate change as the threat it is puts the future of Florida’s coral reefs in peril. Speaker's Bio William Precht is both a geologist and ecologist by training and has been working on coral reefs and related ecosystems since 1978. Since completing his graduate degree from the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Mr. Precht has specialized in the assessment, monitoring, restoration, and rehabilitation of various coastal resources, especially coral reef, seagrass, and mangrove systems. His contributions to the professional and academic ecological sciences community are nationally and internationally recognized, particularly regarding historical ecology and the application of ecological principals to coastal management, assessment, conservation, and restoration. Bill’s work draws upon significant research experience in both field studies and theoretical analysis. Contact Information Hung Nguyen [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close