Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Rooftop Camera Will Track How Local Forests Change With the Climate Ecology Rooftop Camera Will Track How Local Forests Change With the Climate Installed on top of Lamont’s oceanography building, PhenoCam will help track how trees grow and change with the weather, seasons, and climate change. By Sarah Fecht November 03, 2020 A new rooftop camera at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory will help researchers study how the local forest is responding to the weather, seasonal shifts, and the changing climate. It also offers a gorgeous view of the colorful treetops surrounding the campus in Palisades, New York. Via the camera’s livestream, viewers can check out the fall foliage, watch the trees swaying in the wind, and see if they might spot a peregrine falcon swooping past. PhenoCam’s early morning view of the fall foliage on October 14, 2020. Mukund Palat Rao, a recent graduate who works in Lamont’s Tree Ring Lab, got the idea for PhenoCam from fellow grad student Bar Oryan. Oryan studies earthquakes, but for fun he had taken hourly photos of the treescape from his office window and compiled them into a time-lapse video. He emailed the video, which shows the trees progressing through a year and a half of seasonal changes, to the Lamont community. “Mukund replied and said, ‘You know what, we can actually use these pictures for scientific purposes,’” Oryan explained. Video: The new camera installation was inspired by graduate student Bar Oryan’s time-lapse video of the changing seasons on the Lamont campus. The video is composed of hourly snapshots from Oryan’s office window between November 2018 and May 2020. “I knew that there is this entire network of cameras similar to what Bar had set up that record seasonal changes,” said Rao, “and that there are none on the Lamont campus or anywhere close to this area. I thought that it was a really nice opportunity to set this up.” With some funding from the Chevron Student Initiative Fund, the two graduate students purchased a camera and installed it on the roof of Lamont’s Oceanography building. Perched on top of the building, PhenoCam takes photos of the surrounding forest from sunrise to sunset so that scientists can better understand the region’s phenology. Phenology (which is where PhenoCam gets its name from) is the study of natural phenomena that vary with the seasons and other cycles. For example, one question that Rao and his colleagues are interested in exploring is, how is the timing of spring and autumn altering with climate change? With rising temperatures, scientists expect springtime leaf-budding to get earlier, whereas leaf-dropping in the fall may be delayed. Changes in tree timing are important “because so many things within the ecosystem depend on trees,” said Rao. If the leaves come out before the forests’ insects have hatched, the insects will miss out on their preferred food. Similarly, if migrating birds miss out on the peak of springtime, they will have fewer insects to eat when they arrive at the forest. “And so this entire ecosystem would be out of balance if these things are not synced up,” Rao explained. Gif: PhenoCam captures the shift to peak fall foliage between middle and late October. The researchers are also looking forward to pairing the PhenoCam observations with data from a network of dendrometers that are measuring tree growth around the campus. The dendrometers measure how tree trunk diameters grow or shrink depending on daily rhythms and rainfall patterns. For example, the researchers have observed that, just like a houseplant, the tree trunks shrink slightly during dry spells, and rebound once it rains. Rao said PhenoCam may be able to help them explore this phenomenon higher up in the trees, at the level of the branches and leaves. PhenoCam observations will complement a study that is measuring daily changes in tree growth using dendrometers like this one. Photo: Mukund Palat Rao In the springtime, PhenoCam will also help them to study a phenomenon where some trees, such as oak trees, begin growing before they put out leaves. The campus dendrometers will help them to measure when exactly the trees start growing, while PhenoCam will capture when the leaves come out, so the researchers can measure how much time lapses between when the leaves come out and the trees start growing. Understanding tree growth is important not only from an ecological perspective, but also because of its implications for climate change. As tree leaves convert carbon dioxide into sugars during photosynthesis, they are taking planet-warming emissions out of the air and storing them away. Rao is researching how the changing climate could affect how much carbon trees and other vegetation are able to pull out of the air. “Forests and vegetation have taken up almost 30 percent of the carbon dioxide that we have put into the atmosphere. So in a way, they are buffering us from the worst impacts of climate change,” said Rao. “If, under climate change, the forests lose this ability to take up carbon and store it, because of fires or droughts, then that would actually exacerbate climate change as well, and have CO2 concentrations rise faster than they are.” PhenoCam also gathers infrared data, which tells researchers how active the plants and trees are — meaning how much they’re photosynthesizing — and can reveal the overall health of the vegetation. As part of a larger PhenoCam network, the cameras at Lamont will help to fill in a gap in wider geographic trends in phenology. With cameras set up around the world, the network can help scientists find out if the timing of spring is shifting faster in Montreal versus Tallahassee, or how the growing season is changing at the bottom of a mountain versus at its peak. “With these cameras, we can now look at much larger spatial scales,” said Rao. “It’s nice that our camera is part of the network, because we have this other new data point that fills in an area where the network did not have a camera before.” Tags climate change forestry Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Tree Ring Lab News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close