Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Education Graduate Programs Graduate Programs PhD in Earth & Environmental Sciences The PhD in Earth and Environmental Sciences is offered by the graduate division of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, the educational arm of Columbia University in the fields of Earth and environmental science, with most faculty based at Lamont-Doherty. Learn more. Masters Programs Masters of Science (MS) in Sustainability Science The MS in Sustainability Science, harnessing the expertise of Lamont-Doherty researchers, focuses on the scientific methods and tools used to observe, monitor, and respond to environmental impacts. The curriculum emphasizes the practical application of science in addressing the critical sustainability issues of our time. Graduates work within a variety of public and private organizations, integrating scientific knowledge in decision-making. A part-time option and evening classes accommodate the schedules of working professionals. Learn more. Master of Public Administration (MPA) in Environmental Science & Policy The MPA in Environmental Science & Policy, offered by Columbia's School of International and Public Affairs, trains public managers and policymakers to apply innovative, systems-based thinking to environmental issues. Students spend the summer on the campus of Lamont-Doherty completing an Earth systems science curriculum, then spend the fall and spring semesters on the Morningside Heights campus studying management and policy. Learn more. Master of Arts (MA) in Climate and Society The MA in Climate and Society from Columbia Climate School is a 12-month interdisciplinary program that deals with climate variability, climate change, and climate impacts, particularly with respect to the developing world. The program combines elements of earth and environmental sciences, environmental management and policy, economic development, and decision-making under uncertainty. It is designed to provide training in research and policy making for students from the U.S. and abroad, particularly those who are interested in agricultural policy and planning, water resources, health, and risk and insurance topics. Learn more. Other Programs Several Columbia Departments that deal with aspects of the Earth and environment, including the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology and the Department of Earth and Environmental Engineering, also offer Masters degrees. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close