Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Center on Global Energy Policy Launches Carbon Management Research Initiative Energy Center on Global Energy Policy Launches Carbon Management Research Initiative The initiative will help to drive business models, investment vehicles, and policies for a new carbon economy. By Center on Global Energy Policy September 17, 2018 Rapidly advancing technologies hold promise for addressing global warming through removing, storing, and utilizing CO2. Under the right conditions, these technologies could create a new carbon economy larger than that of renewable energy. Unlocking the potential of carbon management requires more than just technological innovation. Research is needed to help build new business models, drive new investment vehicles for public and private capital, and shape new policies at the city, state and national levels. Julio Friedmann will lead a major new research initiative to advance the public policy, financial and economic aspects of carbon management. Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy at the School of International and Public Affairs has launched a major new research initiative to advance the public policy, financial and economic aspects of carbon management. CGEP has hired Julio Friedmann to lead this effort, which complements the world-class research already underway at Columbia’s Earth Institute, of which CGEP is an affiliate, on the science and technology around carbon capture, storage and utilization. At the Center on Global Energy Policy, Friedmann will lead a research effort on the policy, economic and innovation dimensions of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration. This new initiative strengthens Columbia’s academic leadership in the field of carbon dioxide management. Across much of the Earth Institute, faculty and scientists are conducting pioneering research into the removal and sequestration of carbon, particularly in basaltic and ultramafic rocks. This cross-disciplinary work includes the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, the Lenfest Center for Sustainable Energy, the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law, and the Center on Global Energy Policy along with colleagues at the School of Engineering and affiliates based outside of Columbia and overseas. Working together, these groups have established a jointly funded “Women in Energy” program and have been organizing a “CO2 utilization roundtable” each year since 2016. The Lenfest Center and the Sabin Center are currently working on a Department of Energy-funded CarbonSAFE project proposing large-scale permanent storage of CO2 in deep ocean basalt formations. Friedmann comes to CGEP with a highly distinguished career in carbon management. As principal deputy assistant secretary for the Office of Fossil Energy at the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), his portfolio included R&D and programs in clean coal and carbon management, oil and gas systems, and international engagements in clean fossil energy. His earlier appointment as deputy assistant secretary for Clean Coal and Carbon Management focused on clean coal and carbon capture, utilization, and storage. Prior to his time at DOE, Friedmann was chief energy technologist for Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, where his research included smart grid and energy systems analysis, conventional and unconventional hydrocarbons, carbon capture and storage, geothermal power, renewable power prediction and integration, and supercomputing applications to energy. Earlier, he worked for five years as a senior research scientist at ExxonMobil and as faculty at the University of Maryland. Experts from across Columbia will serve on a faculty advisory committee, created with the goal of stimulating broad engagement in the initiative across the university. Initial faculty steering committee members include: Scott Barrett, Lenfest-Earth Institute professor of Natural Resource Economics Jason Bordoff, professor of Professional Practice in the Faculty of International and Public Affairs; director of the Center on Global Energy Policy Michael Gerrard, Andrew Sabin Professor of Professional Practice; director of Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia Law School David Goldberg, Lamont Research Professor in the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory; associate director, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Alex Halliday, professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences; director of the Earth Institute Peter Kelemen, Arthur D. Storke Professor and chair of the department of Earth & Environmental Sciences Alissa Park, Lenfest chair in Applied Climate Science; director of the Lenfest Center for Sustainable Energy An external advisory committee comprising leaders in the field will also help the initiative remain focused on key issues and opportunities. “We are thrilled to have Julio, one of the most respected experts in the world on large-scale carbon management, join our team,” said Jason Bordoff, professor of Professional Practice in International and Public Affairs and director of the Center on Global Energy Policy. “Julio’s deep expertise and experience across government, industry and the national labs make him a tremendous addition to the Columbia community that is already producing pioneering work in this field.” “CGEP’s interdisciplinary focus, global network, and strong track record make it the ideal place to make further progress towards a new carbon economy,” said Friedmann. “I am excited to contribute my expertise to CGEP’s mission and to do so in partnership with the distinguished faculty across the schools of Policy, Engineering, Law, Business, Earth Science and others.” Merit Janow, dean of the School of International and Public Affairs, noted, “The Center’s work in the important area of carbon management will continue SIPA’s long tradition of research at the leading edge of global public policy. Dr. Friedmann’s varied experience from government, academia, and private industry will benefit our intellectual community in many ways.” Alex Halliday, the new director of the Earth Institute, said, “The scenarios for how to limit global warming to non-dangerous levels in the decades ahead rely on some form of negative emissions technology. Moving toward that, scientifically and in terms of policy and decision making, is a key priority. It is great to see the Center for Global Energy Policy taking this step. The recruitment of Julio Friedmann to Columbia will provide invaluable leadership in this area.” Tags carbon capture carbon management Center on Global Energy Policy Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Lenfest Center for Sustainable Energy Sabin Center for Climate Change Law News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close