Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events W.S. Jardetzky Lecture with Prof. Karen Fischer Events Past Event W.S. Jardetzky Lecture with Prof. Karen Fischer Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 22, 2022 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 61 Route 9W, Palisades, NY 10964 Monell Auditorium Show Map The 23rd W.S. Jardetzky Lecture presents: Karen M. Fischer Louis and Elizabeth Scherck Distinguished Professor of Geological Sciences, Brown University. Understanding the Asthenosphere The asthenosphere plays a fundamental role in plate tectonics given that its low viscosity strongly mediates how mantle convection is expressed at the surface. However, the origin of the asthenosphere and the role of partial melt in reducing its viscosity remain debated. In regions such as Anatolia and much of Alaska, seismic data (scattered body waves and surface waves) indicate that a rapid increase in velocity with depth occurs at depths of ~150 km, marking the base of a low velocity asthenospheric layer, whereas the top of the asthenosphere corresponds to a vertically-localized decrease in velocity with depth. At globally distributed stations, scattered seismic waves show that the sharp positive gradient at ~150 km depth is common in regions with elevated upper mantle temperatures and is best explained as the base of a layer containing partial melt. This layer could be present beneath ~40% of Earth’s surface. Geodynamic models indicate that if the partial melt significantly reduces mantle viscosity, deformation and anisotropy in seismic velocities should be enhanced within the layer. However, the geographic distribution of the observed melt-bearing layer does not correlate with higher radial anisotropy, indicating that it has relatively little impact on large-scale viscosity. Rather, the low-velocity partially molten layer is embedded within a thicker low-viscosity asthenosphere, whose lower boundary is primarily controlled by gradual pressure and temperature variations with depth. Karen M. Fischer is a seismologist who studies the structure and dynamics of Earth's interior. Her work focuses on understanding the lithosphere and asthenosphere, how these layers are created and evolve over time, and their roles in plate tectonics and mantle convection. She is a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union (AGU), a recipient of the Harry Fielding Reid Medal from the Seismological Society of America, and the 2016 AGU Beno Gutenberg Lecturer. She has served as the President of the AGU Seismology Section. At Brown, her work has been recognized with the Royce Family Professorship in Teaching Excellence and the Karen T. Romer Award for Undergraduate Advising and Mentoring. She earned her B.S. from Yale University and her Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and she was a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University. This is an in-person event only. Contact Information Nicolas Young [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close