Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News The R/V Pelican Sets Sail, and Data Collection Begins Earth Sciences The R/V Pelican Sets Sail, and Data Collection Begins Researchers are mapping the seafloor and subseafloor between Haiti and Jamaica, to evaluate the potential for earthquakes. By Cecilia McHugh January 16, 2022 The R/V Pelican. Photo: Cecilia McHugh The R/V Pelican departed Ocho Rios on January 8, arriving at our first location along the Jamaica Passage on January 9. During the daytime, we run the CHIRP subbottom profiler, which lets us see an acoustic image of the seafloor and about 10 meters into the subsurface, plus the multichannel seismic survey, which penetrates much deeper into the subsurface (~100 m) in this setting. We collect sediment cores and heat flow measurements at night. Due to rough seas with winds of 15 knots, swells as high as eight feet, and minor technical issues, the multichannel seismic survey and sub-bottom profiling were slow to start. But the coring was very successful and we recovered three gravity cores in water depths ranging from 2500 to 2700 meters. A gravity core is a metal pipe with a very heavy weight (core head) that makes the core descend to the seafloor by the force of gravity. It penetrates the sediments beneath the seafloor and recovers layers of sediment, like a layered cake, that reveal the history of a location, with the oldest layer at the bottom and the youngest layer on top. Together, these measurements and the ones we collect over the coming weeks will help us evaluate the potential earthquake hazard along the Enriquillo-Plantain Garden fault, located between Haiti and Jamaica. As of January 13, all systems are fully operational and we are collecting great data. The seismic survey is being conducted during the daytime. Photo: Cecilia McHugh The coring system we’re using is the “Big Bertha,” with a coring head weight of 3500 pounds. It can recover up to six meters of sediment from the seafloor. Photo: Cecilia McHugh The multicore recovers the sediment at the interface between the sediment and water allowing us to study a complete record of sedimentation and capture the most recent event deposits possibly related to earthquakes. Photo: Cecilia McHugh Photo: Cecilia McHugh Photo: Cecilia McHugh Tags Earthquake Hazards in Haiti and Jamaica Earthquakes Haiti Jamaica Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close