Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Kun Wang Events Past Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Kun Wang Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 15, 2021 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium presents: Isotopic Constraints on the Origin and Evolution of Martian Volatiles with Kun Wang, Assistant Professor of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Washington University in St. Louis NASA’s Mars 2020 “Perseverance” rover, China’s first Mars mission “Tianwen-1”, and the United Arab Emirates’ “Hope” Mars orbiter have all successfully orbited or landed on the red planet. These new missions will undoubtedly advance our understanding of Mars. From the first fly-by space probes to more recent Mars rovers, “follow the water” is one of the key themes of martian exploration, as water, and more the broadly volatiles, are essential for discovering extraterrestrial life and examining habitability. To characterize the volatiles of bulk Mars and compare to those of other terrestrial planetary bodies, several elemental and isotopic ratios have been developed over the past few decades, such as D/H, (Na,Ga,Br)/Al, K/(La,Th,U), Mn/Na, and Rb/Sr, which can be acquired through either direct analysis on martian meteorites or remote sensing of the martian surface (e.g., Odyssey GRS). According to these indexes, Mars has a higher inventory of volatiles than Earth. Therefore, Mars can be viewed as a volatile-rich (hence water-rich) planet. Although this conclusion is consistent with Mars’ greater heliodistance and has since become the current paradigm, it is sharply contradictory to the present-day conditions of Mars vs. Earth. One could explain this discrepancy with solar wind stripping mechanism as recently observed by MAVEN. However, how much volatiles have been removed over geological history through this mechanism remains uncertain and so it is unclear whether this alone can justify the difference. Nevertheless, inherent difficulty in determining volatile/water inventories makes it challenging to directly compare the volatile budget of Mars to that of Earth. Here I will reassess several key geochemical and isotopic constraints for the volatile budgets of Mars and Earth. Then I will introduce K isotopes, a newly proposed tracer for comparing planetary volatiles. New data suggest that Mars was in fact more depleted in volatiles than Earth, which implies much less water was initially accreted to Mars than previously thought. Most of the limited initially accreted water having been liberated during the early warmer climate of Mars. As observed by previous’ rovers and orbiters, this has left only morphological and mineralogical evidence of liquid water on Mars’ surface. Our study sets a baseline estimate of Mars’ volatile budget and provides a testable hypothesis for the Mars 2020 “Perseverance” rover. More to read: https://source.wustl.edu/2021/09/mars-habitability-limited-by-its-small-size-isotope-study-suggests/ The Earth Science Colloquium Series is sponsored by Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Columbia University Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences (DEES). This series provides a lively forum for discussing a wide variety of topics within the earth sciences and related fields. Colloquia are attended by the full range of scientific and technical staff at LDEO. Colloquium attendance is required of all pre-orals DEES graduate students. The Colloquium Series supports the Lamont Seminar Diversity Initiative. Contact Information Nicolas Young [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close