Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events [ClimateWeekNYC] China, the US and Climate Diplomacy Events Past Event [ClimateWeekNYC] China, the US and Climate Diplomacy Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo September 20, 2021 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM America/New_York Online Climate Week NYC: China, the US and Climate Diplomacy - A Conversation with Former Prime Minister Kevin Rudd The Climate Group has selected the Columbia Climate School as its university partner for this year’s Climate Week NYC. Running Sept. 20-26, Climate Week NYC convenes key climate leaders to accelerate climate action and discuss ambitious commitments ahead of the 26th UN Climate Change Conference, or COP26, later this fall in Glasgow. Kevin Rudd’s distinguished career includes serving as the 26th Prime Minister of Australia. He is a former diplomat, fluent in Mandarin, and a keen observer of US-China relations. A veteran of the 2009 Copenhagen climate conference, Rudd has long been active on climate change in Australia and around the world. He currently serves as President and CEO of the Asia Society. Please join the Center on Global Energy Policy for a dialogue between former Prime Minister Rudd and CGEP Inaugural Fellow David Sandalow, a former senior official at the White House, State Department, and U.S. Department of Energy. Rudd and Sandalow will discuss the current tensions between the US and China, their impact on global efforts to combat climate change, expectations for COP26 in Glasgow, and climate politics around the globe. This webinar will be hosted via Zoom. Advance registration is required. Upon registration, you will receive a confirmation email with access details. The event will be recorded and the video recording will be added to our website following the event. This event is open to press, and registration is required to attend. Contact Information Genna Morton [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close