Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News New Project Will Create ‘The Internet of Samples’ Earth Sciences New Project Will Create ‘The Internet of Samples’ iSamples will digitalize scientific samples to enable more discoveries and information-sharing. By Marie DeNoia Aronsohn September 10, 2020 The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and partner institutions $4 million to develop an innovative cyberinfrastructure that will integrate scientific samples into a digital data ecosystem: iSamples, the ‘Internet of Samples.’ A tuff sample collected from East Africa’s rift valley. Photo: Kevin Krajick/Earth Institute Lamont geoinformatics specialist Kerstin Lehnert is serving as principal investigator. All too often, she says, researchers go to great trouble and expense to collect samples at sea, in polar regions, or in other remote areas, only to have the samples gather dust or even get thrown away after they’ve served their original purpose. Over the next four years, the iSamples project will create a system where researchers across disciplines and throughout the world can share and access metadata on existing samples. “This will establish an infrastructure that hopefully changes the culture. In many universities and institutions, collections get thrown out. With iSamples they will be [uniformly] registered and their use can be tracked, paving a way to demonstrate the value of these collections,” said Lehnert. The iSamples project comes at an especially opportune moment. Since March, the pandemic has curtailed fieldwork. “A lot of researchers and students will have to rely on the access to information and data online in the context specifically of the iSamples project. With the COVID restrictions for travel, researchers haven’t been able to go into the field to collect new samples and so the access to existing collections has never been more important,” said Lehnert. The first two years of the project will largely focus on the design and development of the cyberinfrastructure components, and years three and four will focus on implementing the iSamples services at several data systems serving different purposes and communities, including the Lamont-operated System for Earth Sample Registration (SESAR), the Smithsonian Institution of Washington’s natural history collections database, and the Genomic Observatories Metadata Database (GEOME). There will be ongoing community engagement throughout the grant to gather feedback from other potential users. The project is collaborative with the University of Arizona, University of Kansas, and the UC Berkeley Data Science Institute, with subawards to Open Context, a data system for archaeology, and the Smithsonian Institution of Washington. Tags iSamples Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory research-home News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close