Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Historical and Climatic Perspectives on Drought in East Africa Events Past Event Historical and Climatic Perspectives on Drought in East Africa Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 26, 2022 5:45 PM - 7:00 PM America/New_York Fayerweather Hall, 1180 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 513 Show Map Historians and climate scientists are increasingly collaborating with each other. One goal is to better understand our past climate at a higher resolution at local or regional scales. While we know much about how the climate has changed over the course of human history at a global or hemispheric level, the complicated dynamics at regional and sub-regional levels means there is much still to learn and historical evidence can help by anchoring climate events in time. Another goal is to better understand history through our knowledge of the climate by bringing paleoclimatology into historical research, especially before the twentieth century. This event will present one approach to collaboration between a historian and paleoclimatologist that draws on evidence from lakes in Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania, from new high-resolution paleoclimatological products that offer annual reconstructions of the hydroclimate drawing on proxies, and from oral traditions societies in the region. The aim of this approach is to better understand multi-decadal droughts in East Africa in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. By combining these different kinds of evidence, despite the range of uncertainties each contains, it is possible to start to develop a more granular understanding of the droughts and of the range of human response to them. Event Speakers Rhiannon Stephens, Associate Professor of History at Columbia University Jason Smerdon, Lamont Research Professor at Columbia University Event Information Free and open to the public; registration required to receive Zoom link. Columbia University ID holders may attend in person. Members of the public must attend virtually via Zoom. Please email [email protected] with any questions. Part of the Climate and Society series. Hosted by Center for Science and Society Columbia Climate School Dean of Humanities Earth Institute Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Climate and Society MA Program The Center for Science and Society makes every reasonable effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend a Center for Science and Society event, please contact us at [email protected] or (212) 853-1612 at least 10 days in advance of the event. For more information, please visit the campus accessibility webpage. Contact Information Center for Science and Society (212) 853-1612 [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close