Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Looking at the Seafloor Without Water Earth Sciences Looking at the Seafloor Without Water Along the Enriquillo fault, large-scale submarine landslides provide possible evidence of earthquakes. By Cecilia McHugh January 26, 2022 Over the past few weeks, we have surveyed the Enriquillo-Plantain Garden fault along the Jamaica Passage from west (near Jamaica) to east (near Haiti). The trace of the fault along the seafloor is manifested by linear ridges as high as 1,000 meters. South of the fault there are three large basins: the Moran Basin (60 km long), the Navassa Basin (30 km) and Motely Basin (20 km). The basins are bounded by the fault to the north and by a series of ridges to the south. Huge underwater landslides extend from the southern ridges into the basins. The deposits are tens of kilometers in length and include boulders the size of trucks. This suggests that the southern border of this fault zone is tectonically active and earthquakes may be a mechanism that initiate downslope failures and the huge slumps. Image of the Enriquillo fault showing its linear trace, high ridges, submarine sediment failures and basins. The image was prepared from multibeam bathymetry. Brown colors are shallow areas (1,000 meters below sea level or less). Dark greens are deep areas, as deep as 3,000 meters below sea level. The image is courtesy of Sylvie Leroy and the data was collected during HAITI SIS oceanographic cruise in 2012. So far we have recovered 31 gravity cores. In the cores we discovered a turbidite —sediment deposited by a current of rapidly moving, turbulent water moving down a slope — that contains iron-rich minerals and organic material, possibly wood or algae. This is unusual since most sediments that we obtained are “calcareous oozes” composed of tiny shelled creatures. The turbidite’s iron-rich minerals are derived from the fault ridges. We will learn more when we open the cores at the Lamont-Doherty Core Repository, but we anticipate finding more turbidites that will shed light into the earthquake history of the region and help to better assess the hazard for Jamaica and Haiti. We assembled the day and night shifts for a photo. Front, left to right: Cecilia McHugh, Vashan Wright, Victor Cabiativa, Jhardel Dasent, Richard Kilburn. Back, left to right: Leonardo Seeber, Matthew Hornbach, Chris Fanshier, Benjamin Freiberg, Brian Agee. Photo by Cecilia McHugh Tags bathymetry Earthquake Hazards in Haiti and Jamaica Earthquakes Haiti Jamaica Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close