Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Education Student & Educator Programs Summer Opportunities: Secondary School Field Research Program Summer Opportunities: Secondary School Field Research Program Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory’s Secondary School Field Research Program (SSFRP) brings high school students, undergraduate students, and science teachers to the Lamont campus each summer for six weeks of field and laboratory research. Students and teachers collaborate with Lamont researchers on a scientific research project in a tiered mentoring system. The Piermont Marsh, New York serves as the main field site and outdoor classroom. Research teams are composed of high school students, one or two undergraduate mentors with a teacher contact, and a Lamont researcher as science support. The main structure is the high school students and their undergraduate mentors as they conduct rigorous scientific research about ecological and physical processes in the wetland. Students and teachers prepare by reading and discussing a science journal article about the marsh. Students then break into research teams, review and refine their sampling protocols, and develop a sample plan for the summer. Teams then collect samples and perform laboratory experiments on topics ranging from nutrient cycling, natural carbon sequestration, non-chemical management of invasive plants, the construction of rechargeable batteries powered by soil bacteria, and more. After the data are analyzed, each team creates a research poster and presentation to share their work at the end of the summer symposium. During the school year, supporting coursework is offered on topics such as wetland ecology, field sampling, and data analysis. Fall Classes in the Marsh Image Carousel with 11 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Student demonstrates how to collect water samples Slide 2: 40 students in the marsh and no one capsized! Slide 3: A hand up to the marsh surface. Slide 4: A native marsh resident, Atlantic mud crab. Slide 5: Bushwhacking into marsh interior. Slide 6: Collecting water samples from kayaks. Slide 7: Hibiscus, one of the few remaining native plant species. Slide 8: Learning to canoe. Slide 9: Precious moments. Slide 10: Students contrast impact of invasive Phragmites with native. Slide 11: The smiles tell it all. Student demonstrates how to collect water samples 40 students in the marsh and no one capsized! A hand up to the marsh surface. A native marsh resident, Atlantic mud crab. Bushwhacking into marsh interior. Collecting water samples from kayaks. Hibiscus, one of the few remaining native plant species. Learning to canoe. Precious moments. Students contrast impact of invasive Phragmites with native. The smiles tell it all. Previous Next Piermont Marsh Sampling Protocol Image Carousel with 12 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Habitat assessment in marsh interior. Slide 2: Building teamwork skills. Slide 3: Deploying minnow traps. Slide 4: Gee minnow traps prepared for deployment. Slide 5: Marking sites. Slide 6: Measuring canopy height and stem count. Slide 7: Navigating the tidal creek. Slide 8: Preserving samples in 10% formalin. Slide 9: Processing samples. Slide 10: Retrieving minnow traps. Slide 11: Reclaiming capsized canoe. Slide 12: Recording data. Habitat assessment in marsh interior. Building teamwork skills. Deploying minnow traps. Gee minnow traps prepared for deployment. Marking sites. Measuring canopy height and stem count. Navigating the tidal creek. Preserving samples in 10% formalin. Processing samples. Retrieving minnow traps. Reclaiming capsized canoe. Recording data. Previous Next Winter Sampling in the Marsh Image Carousel with 5 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Dr. Newton with the hardy few. Slide 2: Arctic suits facilitate sampling in temperature of 17 degrees. Slide 3: Collecting water samples at head of Crumkill Creek. Slide 4: Navigating the marsh in winter. Slide 5: Processing water samples in lab. Dr. Newton with the hardy few. Arctic suits facilitate sampling in temperature of 17 degrees. Collecting water samples at head of Crumkill Creek. Navigating the marsh in winter. Processing water samples in lab. Previous Next Learn More Lamont-Doherty Program Aims to Bring More Diversity to Earth Science Bob Newton: Building the Next Generation of Scientists City High School Students Team With Columbia University Researchers to Improve … Lesson Plan: Sampling Nekton and Invertebrates Lesson Plan: Marsh Study of Invasive Plant Species, Phragmites Australis Is It Possible to Have a Sustained, Biologically Healthy Estuarine System in th… Contact Bob Newton, Program Director Susan Vincent, Field Instructor SSFRP Team Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close