Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News A Focus on the Thinning Northwest Greenland Glaciers Earth Sciences A Focus on the Thinning Northwest Greenland Glaciers Blog by Hakim Abdi, LDEO Satellite measures showing thinning ice on the Northwest Greenland glaciers prompted Operation IceBridge to include annual flights over this region. The area runs along the Baffin Bay coast, which is often covered in fog and low lying clouds forcing delays and reschedules. With the end of our season in sight… read more By Kirsty Tinto May 19, 2011 NW Greenland Glacier (Photo: LDEO/Hakim Abdi) Blog by Hakim Abdi, LDEO Satellite measures showing thinning ice on the Northwest Greenland glaciers prompted Operation IceBridge to include annual flights over this region. The area runs along the Baffin Bay coast, which is often covered in fog and low lying clouds forcing delays and reschedules. With the end of our season in sight we were forced to complete the flight in less than optimal conditions. The landscape around Upernavik and Uummannaq is rugged and can reach up to 6000 feet in elevation. (Photo: LDEO/Hakim Abdi) As we flew further south, approaching Upernavik, we encountered a dense cloud layer running inland along the glacier for several miles, and stopping at about the 2000 foot elevation. The scenery above the clouds showed high snowy peaks prompting a quick look at a digital elevation model of Greenland. The elevation around Upernavik and surrounding areas can reach up to 6000 feet, evident in the peaks we observed during the flight. This upper elevation was cloud free and we were able to collect data for monitoring any changes in ice thickness in these higher elevations. The Pituffik Glacier – Although the temperature is getting warmer and the seasonal melting process has begun, there is a considerable amount of sea ice present. When their time comes, and when the sea ice has melted, the crevassed sections of the glacier break off and float as icebergs. (Photo: LDEO/Hakim Abdi) . Arctic Hare (Lepus arcticus). Photo: LDEO/Hakim Abdi The arctic is home to several species of wildlife, some of whom are circumpolar. As we prepare to wrap up this season in Greenland Ithought I would share a few images of its charismatic residents. As summer approaches (it is presently at 23 degrees F), it has become possible to observe some of these species around the base. These include the Arctic Fox Vulpus lagopus, Arctic Hare Lepus arcticus, Snow Bunting Plectrophenax nivalis, Glaucous Gull Larus hyperboreus, (Greenlandic) Gyrfalcon Falco rusticolus, and the Common Raven Corvus corax. The (Greenlandic) Gyrfalcon (Falco rusticolus). Photo: LDEO/Hakim Abdi Tags Climate climate change Greenland Greenland Ice Sheet Icebridge Greenland Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close