Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Forest Fires Increasingly Affecting Western Rivers and Streams, for Better and Worse Climate Forest Fires Increasingly Affecting Western Rivers and Streams, for Better and Worse Fires may increase stream flow for years after sweeping the surface, and temporarily increase downstream water supplies. But they may also increase the risks of landslides and floods in affected areas. By Columbia Climate School February 22, 2022 Stanislaus National Forest, California, August 2013. (U.S. Forest Service) Forest fires can have a significant effect on the amount of water flowing in nearby rivers and streams, and the impact can continue even years after the smoke clears. Now, with the number of forest fires on the rise in the western United States, they are increasingly influencing the region’s water supply, and increasing the risk for flooding and landslides, according to a study published today in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Researchers examined stream flow—a measure of water volume over time in rivers and streams—and climate data for 179 river basins. (Basins are areas of land where precipitation collects and drains into a common outlet.) All of the areas were located in the western United States, and all had been affected by forest fires between 1984 and 2020. Using a mathematical model they developed, the scientists discovered that stream flow in the years after a fire tended to be higher than scientists would expect based solely on climate conditions, and that larger fires tended to be followed by larger increases in stream flow. In basins where more than 20 percent of the forest had burned, stream flow was an average of 30 percent greater than would be expected based on climate conditions alone. The effect last on average six years. Lead author Park Williams of the University of California, Los Angeles, said forest fires enhance stream flow because they burn away vegetation that would otherwise draw water from soil, and block precipitation before it ever reaches the soil. Intense forest fires can also “cook” soils, making them temporarily water repellent, he said. Williams is also an adjunct researcher at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. From 1984 through 2020, the amount of forested area burned each year in the West increased elevenfold. That trend is expected to continue or even accelerate due to climate change. “As a result, we’re starting to see sequences of years when large portions of forest are burned across some very important hydrological basins such as those in California’s Sierra Nevada,” Williams said. The study suggests that wildfires will soon become yet another important consideration for those in charge of the supply and distribution of water. Each year, the region’s water managers must carefully calculate how much water will be available, and determine how to conserve and allocate it. In one sense, the increase in stream flow from forest fires may be beneficial, Williams said. “This could come as good news to dry cities like Los Angeles, because it could actually enhance water availability,” he said. But other outcomes could be troubling. For example, in the coming decades, too much water could overwhelm reservoirs and other infrastructure, and could increase the risk for catastrophic flooding and landslides in and around burn areas. To adapt to increasing flood risks, Williams said, water managers in California may have to lower the water levels in reservoirs in the fall and winter to make room for excess water from major rainfall and snowstorms. Such a strategy could avoid disastrous flooding in some cases, but could also put communities at risk for having too little water during the state’s increasingly hot, dry summers. Water after a forest fire also tends to be heavily polluted, carrying mud, debris and large sediment loads. So even if the quantity of available water increases after a large fire, it’s likely that water quality will worsen, he said. Williams said he hopes the findings help water managers and climate scientists make better predictions about water availability and flood risk. “Water is a really heavy and destructive thing,” he said. “It’s great when it comes to us in the expected amount. It is catastrophic when it shows up unexpectedly.” The study was coauthored by Jason Smerdon, Benjamin Cook, Arianna Varuolo-Clarke, Justin Mankin, and Caroline Juang, all of Lamont-Doherty; and researchers from the University of Colorado, Boulder; and the Cary Institute of Ecosystem Studies. Adapted from a press release by the University of California, Los Angeles. Tags climate change cs highlights ei highlights Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory rivers streams wildfires News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close