Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News News News June 16, 2020 Q&A With Kailani Acosta on Diversity in the Geosciences Women and people of color are historically underrepresented in the geosciences. Through two different diversity initiatives, graduate student Kailani Acosta is working to change that. June 16, 2020 Refining Projections of Antarctic Ice Loss and Global Sea Level Rise Research by Center for Climate and Life Fellow Pierre Dutrieux will lead to greater understanding of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet’s future stability and associated sea level rise. June 15, 2020 Glaciers Preserve Our History. We Must Defend Them. In a century or two, future generations will be able to ‘read’ the pandemic chapter in ice cores — if glaciers still exist then. June 15, 2020 How to Disinfect Your Mask: A Step-by-Step Guide Social distancing and mask-wearing are here to stay for the foreseeable future. This guide will help you safely disinfect and reuse some types of disposable masks. June 11, 2020 Maureen Raymo Appointed Interim Director of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Raymo is a world-renowned marine geologist and climate scientist whose work focuses on the history and causes of past climate change. June 11, 2020 Rosanne D’Arrigo: Decoding The History of Climate Cycles, One Tree Ring At A Time A simple fascination with winter and weather patterns led D’Arrigo to become a globe-trotting scientist who collects and analyzes important data from tree rings. June 09, 2020 Earth Institute Solidarity and Support for #ShutDownSTEM On Wednesday, the State of the Planet blog will be going silent in solidarity with a grassroots movement to eradicate anti-Black racism in academia and STEM. June 08, 2020 Coronavirus Is Improving Water Quality — For Now, At Least With less pollution entering the air, our waterways are getting cleaner. Whether or not they stay that way is up to us. June 05, 2020 What Will the Weather Be After Coronavirus? Pollution is going down, but temperatures could still rise. Here’s why. June 04, 2020 What the Forecast for an Active Hurricane Season Means for the Atlantic Region Climate scientist Suzana Camargo shares some cautionary words. June 03, 2020 Ocean Uptake of CO2 Could Drop as We Cut Carbon Emissions A new study finds that ocean absorption of CO2 rises and falls along with human activity and natural phenomena. The findings are important for understanding how much the oceans will offset future climate change. June 02, 2020 Nisarga Could Be the Strongest Storm to Hit Mumbai in 70 Years Major cyclone landfalls in this region are rare, but they could become more common and more dangerous under climate change. May 29, 2020 Coronavirus Has a Strong Ally: Pollution Research suggests that even a small increase in long-term exposure to fine particles leads to an increase in the mortality rate of up to 8 percent. May 28, 2020 The Virus and the Cyclone: The Tragedy in India and Bangladesh is Double More than four million people have been forced to abandon their homes and reach emergency shelters, increasing the risk of contagion. May 22, 2020 COVID-19 Highlights the Need to Plan for Joint Disasters Summertime brings hurricane season, heat waves, wildfires, and flooding. Is the U.S. prepared to deal with extreme weather at the same time as a pandemic? Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹ Previous Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Current page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page Next › Last page Last » Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close