Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events BPE Seminar | Dr. Hung Nguyen (LDEO) Events Past Event BPE Seminar | Dr. Hung Nguyen (LDEO) Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo September 13, 2021 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM America/New_York Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 61 Route 9W, Palisades, NY 10964 Show Map *Please note: in-person attendance is limited to LDEO affiliates. If you would like to participate via zoom, please contact the Seminar organizer for a link* Title: How do we get subannual climate reconstructions from annual tree rings? Abstract:How do we get subannual climate reconstruction from annual tree rings? And if we can do that, how do we ensure that the reconstructions "make sense", e.g., that the sum of the monthly flows matches the annual flow closely (mass balance preservation)? In this talk, I will present a new reconstruction framework that can solve these two problems in one go. The two key ideas are: (1) we combine, in an optimal way, multiple proxies with different seasonal sensitivities; and (2) to preserve mass balance, we minimize the differences between the annual flow and the total monthly flows in the regression equation. This mass balance criterion is necessary to avoid misguiding water management decisions, such as the allocation of water rights or dam release decisions. Using the framework, and leveraging a multi-species network of ring width and cellulose δ18O in Southeast Asia, we reconstruct monthly streamflow to all four major tributaries of the Chao Phraya River, Thailand's largest and most important watershed. The reconstructions are statistically skillful. Furthermore, they preserve the mass balance well: the differences are mostly within 10% of the mean annual flow. As a result, the reconstructions provide more reliable estimates of surface water availability. This work is one step closer toward operational usability of streamflow reconstruction in water resources management. Contact Information Rose Oelkers [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close