Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home People Philip Charles LaPorta Philip Charles LaPorta Philip C. LaPorta is an Adjunct Senior Research Scientist at Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory and Lifetime Director at The Center for the Investigation of Native and Ancient Quarries (CINAQ). His research has strived to forge a meld between the principles of the geological sciences, and the systematic investigation of prehistoric quarries and ancient mines. This realm of research represents the first logical subdivision of the broader field of Geo-Archaeology. In 1989, LaPorta published the 1st manuscript, and associated field excursion guide, focused directly on the stratigraphic relations of prehistoric chert quarries in the northeastern United States (NYSGA, 1989). The Prehistoric Quarries and Early Mines Interest Group (PQEMIG) was founded by La Porta in 2006 for the Society of American Archaeology. PQEMIG is an outgrowth of LaPorta’s research, and Philip served as its first director from 2005-2010. In 2006, LaPorta led the first Geological Society of America national meeting, post-conference field trips to prehistoric quarries and mines in the New York metropolitan area. Dr. LaPorta’s dissertation (2009) includes the first complete stratigraphic section, approx. 3,300’ at a scale of 1:98, for the Cambrian and Ordovician chert–bearing carbonates of the Kittatinny Supergroup in the tristate metropolitan area. Additionally, Philip mapped greater than 2,000 prehistoric quarries and mines within the tri-state metropolitan area. The dissertation serves as a type section for Cambrian and Ordovician nodular cherts, as well as a provenance tool for archaeological investigations. In 2012, Philip founded CINAQ, a 501.c3 non-profit education charter in New York State, with the mission of educating the public and Indigenous peoples on this significant and much maligned resource. Additionally, CINAQ houses the nation’s largest and most complete lithiotech; a taxonomically organized collection of geological materials, obtained from both prehistoric, as well as historic, mines, quarries, and outcrops. Through the years, Dr. LaPorta’s research has grown to international levels. His expertise has brought him to investigate Lower to Middle Paleolithic quarries in India and Israel; as well as Neolithic, Chalcolithic and Bronze age quarries in Israel, Bulgaria and Poland. Most recently, since 2003, Philip has been researching the Neolithic, Proto-dynastic, as well as Old Kingdom Pharonic quarries of Egypt. Dr. LaPorta is unfolding new researches in neotectonics, cosmogenic isotope studies, and paleotoxicology. Philip received his bachelor’s degree from Rutgers University (1977), his masters’ degrees from Queen’s College (1990, 1996), and his doctorate from the CUNY Graduate Center (2009). Along the way, Philip founded LaPorta and Associates, Geological Consultants (1993-2013), now LaPorta Geological Consultants (2013 to present). Through the years, Dr. LaPorta has designed geology courses for anthropology, archaeology and geography majors and graduated the first transdisciplinary majors from the CUNY system (1990 through 1995), employing his Cambrian-Ordovician geological and archaeological research. Philip’s students went on to earn master’s degrees from Indiana University, Lamont Doherty, University of Kentucky, University of Rhode Island, and Texas A&M University. Several of Dr. LaPorta’s former students earned Ph.D.’s from the University of Michigan, Lamont Doherty, and the University of Kentucky. Philip has taught economic geology and ore deposit studies, optical mineralogy, invertebrate paleontology, geological field methods and mapping, as well as geo-archaeology field school at Queens, Hunter and Lehman colleges in the CUNY System, as well as at Montclair State and Pace universities. Fields of Interest Geology: Research interests include silica diagenesis and the origin of nodular and bedded cherts, the geological co-occurrence of cherts with specific types of ore deposits (especially Carlin-type gold deposits, Mississippi Valley-type lead zinc deposits, Kuroko-type sulfide deposits, and ophiolite suites), Appalachian tectonic events, timing of orogenic events (radiometric dating of bentonitic ash deposits) and unroofing processes, provenance of chert both geologically and as archaeological objects. Additional interests include Freundlich-Ostwald ripening processes and the sedimentology of clays as related to the diagenesis of cherts. Archaeology: Interests include hunter-gather/forager collector dynamics, the development of prehistoric industrial landscapes, in particular extraction and resulting chain du opertoire of production systems and the refinement of stone tools. I am interested in the rock mechanics approach towards the analysis of stone tools as well as understanding the strength of materials and quantify the sequence of stone-tool production events at quarries. Radiometric age dating of prehistoric rock surfaces employing cosmogenic isotopes, provenance chert/quartz objects from the quarry source to the archaeological site of deposition in the lower Hudson Estuary (Sr-Rb/U-Pb dating). Apply a vast archives of recovered objects in order to generate an accurate depiction of prehistoric-lithic based economies and land utilization of the lower Hudson Estuary. Other related interests include the evolution of quarry types of Lower Paleolithic to the Neolithic of the Balkans, western Mediterranean, North Africa and India. Ethnoarchaeology of quarries and mine districts, labor distribution, social stratification and gender subdivision in mine and quarry activities, ritual life and prayer in quarries. The “district concept”, as applied to prehistoric mines and quarries, paleo-toxicology. Education Ph.D. (geology/archaeological geology), The Graduate Center of the City University of New York, 2009 M.Phil. (geology), The Graduate Center of the City University of New York, 1996 M.A. (geology/archaeological geology), Queens College of the City University of New York, 1990 B.A. (anthropology/geology), Rutgers University, Newark College of Arts and Sciences, New Jersey, 1977 Honors & Awards 1993: Pennsylvania Historic Preservation Award: Sandt's Eddy Site, Delaware River. 1989-1990: Harold Prozansky Dissertation Fellowship, CUNY Graduate Center 1997-1998: Dissertation Year Fellowship, CUNY Graduate Center Expand all Collapse all Publications PROFESSIONAL PUBLICATIONS (* Peer Reviewed) (# Most Referenced Papers, as of January 2020, papers referenced in 112 peer scholarly papers) *In prep. LaPorta, P.C., The Cambrian-Ordovician Kittatinny Supergroup of northwestern New Jersey and southeastern New York: Revisions in Formation and Member Level Stratigraphy in The Bulletin of the Geological Society of America. *In prep. LaPorta, P.C., Brewer-LaPorta, M., and Minchak, S., Sedimentological and Stratigraphic Constraints on Prehistoric Bedrock Quarries in the First Tectonic Cycle of the Cambrian-Ordovician Appalachians, Archaeologica Polonia. *In prep. LaPorta, P.C., Brewer-LaPorta, M., Minchak, S., From Quarries to Fish Weirs; the Allocation of Raw Materials from Quarries of the Great Valley Sequence to the Estuaries of the Piedmont., UISPP, Paris. *2020 LaPorta, P.C., Brewer-LaPorta, M., and Minchak, S., The Extraction of Chert Boudinage from the Lower-Middle Ordovician Ontelaunee Formation, Wallkill River Valley, Northwestern New Jersey-Southeastern New York in Collet, H., and Hauzeur, A., eds., Etudes & Document Archeologie: Anthropologie et Prehistoire. *2018 LaPorta, P.C., Minchak, S., and Brewer-LaPorta, M.C. The Prehistoric Bedrock Quarries Occurring within the Chert Bearing Carbonates of the Cambrian-Ordovician Kittatinny Supergroup, Wallkill River Valley, Southeastern New York-Northwestern New Jersey, U.S.A. in Budziszewski, J., Werra, D., and Wozny, M., eds. Between History and Archaeology: Dedicatory Volume to Professor Jacek Lech, Neolithic Prehistoric Mining and History of Archaeology, p. 133-146 *#2017 Lothrop, J.C., LaPorta, P.C., Diamond, J., Younge, M.H., and Winchell-Sweeney, S., New Data on PaleoIndian Sites and Isolated Finds in the Wallkill/Rondout Valley of New York and New Jersey in Gingerich, J., ed., Eastern Fluted Point Tradition II, University of Utah Press, Salt Lake City. *2017 Lothrop, J.C., Beardsley, M., Clymer, M., Diamond, J., LaPorta, P.C., Younge, M., Winchell-Sweeney, S., PaleoIndian Landscapes in Southeastern and Central New York: PaleoAmerica, Center for the Study of First Americans, Texas A&M University, Routledge Press. *2010 LaPorta, P., Minchak, S., and Brewer-LaPorta, M., The Life and History of Quarry Extraction Tools Excavated from the Skene Motion and Workshop, Hartford Basin, Champlain Valley, New York, USA in Brewer-LaPorta, M., Burke, A., and Field, D. (eds.), Ancient Quarries and Mines: A Transatlantic Perspective: Oxbow Press, Oxford, U.K., p. 109-119. *#2008 Schneider, J., and LaPorta, P.C., Geological Constraints on Ground Stone Production and Consumption in the Southern Levant, in Rowan, Y., and Ebeling, J., (eds.), New Approaches to Old Stones: Recent Studies of Ground Stone Artifacts: Equinox Publishing, Ltd., 386 p. *#2005 Barkai, R., Gopher, A., and LaPorta, P.C., Middle Pleistocene Landscape of Extraction: Quarry and Workshop Complexes in Northern Israel, in, Gorring-Inbar, N., and Sharon G., (eds), Axe Age: Acheulian Toolmaking from Quarry to Discard: Equinox Publishing, Ltd. p. 7-44. 2004 LaPorta, P.C., A geological model for the development of bedrock quarries, with an ethnoarchaeological application, in Topping, P., and Lynott, M., eds., The Cultural Landscape of Prehistoric Mines, Oxbow Books, U.K, 214 p. *#2002 Barkai, R., Gopher, A., and LaPorta, P.C., Paleolithic Landscape of Extraction: Extensive Lower-Middle Paleolithic flint surface-quarries and workshops at Har Pua, Upper Galilee, The Journal Antiquity, v.76: p. 672-680. 2000 LaPorta, P.C., The geology of Iron Hill, Delaware and its characterization as a source of ferruginous chert, in Kellogg, D., ed., Current Issues in Mid-Atlantic Geoarchaeology: Society for American Archaeology Geoarchaeology Interest Group, Guidebook for the First Annual Field Trip, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, April 5, 2000. *#1999 Petraglia, M., LaPorta, P.C., and Paddayya, K., The first Acheulian quarry in India: Stone tool manufacture, biface morphology, and behaviors: Journal of Anthropological Research, v. 55, p. 39-70. #1996 LaPorta, P.C., Lithostratigraphy as a predictive tool for prehistoric quarry investigations: Examples from the Dutchess Quarry Site, Orange County, New York, in Lindner, C., ed., A Golden Chronograph for Robert E. Funk: Occasional Papers in Northeastern Anthropology No. 15: Bethlehem, Connecticut, Archaeological Services, p. 73-84. 1996 Bergman, C.A., Doershuk, J.F., LaPorta, P.C., and Schuldenrein, J., An introduction to the Early and Middle Archaic occupations at Sandt’s Eddy: Pennsylvania Archaeologist. 1994 LaPorta, P.C., Lithostratigraphic models and the geographic distribution of prehistoric chert quarries within the Cambro-Ordovician lithologies of the Great Valley Sequence, Sussex County, New Jersey, in Bergman, C.A. and Doershuk, J.F., eds., Recent Research into the Prehistory of the Delaware Valley, Journal of Middle Atlantic Archaeology, v. 10, p. 47-66. 1993 Bergman, C.A., LaPorta, P.C., Doershuk, J.F., Fassler, H., Rue, D., and Schuldenrein, J., The Padula Site (36Nm15) and chert resource exploitation in the Middle Delaware River Valley: Archaeology of Eastern North America, v. 20, p. Adjunct Senior Research Scientist, Geochemistry Areas of Expertise mineralogy Sedimentary petrology Carbonate stratigraphy Nodular and Bedded cherts Diagenesis and Petrofabric of cherts Sedimentary facies analysis Appalachian tectonic stratigraphy Problematic and climate induced economic ore deposits Cambrian and Ordovician biodiversity History and Philosophy of geology Museology. Prehistoric mines and quarries Site formation processes Chain of operation of production systems at mines and quarries Predictive modeling of ancient mines and quarries Provenancing of chert/quartz raw material Ethnoarchaeology of mine and quarry districts Paleoeconomics of lithic-based economies Social Stratification in mine and quarry communities Petrological and petrofabric analysis of flaked and ground stone tools. Contact Info Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University Gary C. Comer Geochemistry Building, Room 127 61 Route 9W Palisades, New York 10964 USA 1-845-381-1702 [email protected] Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close