Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Activism in Adaptation Events Past Event Activism in Adaptation Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 30, 2022 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM America/New_York Online Event Activism in Adaptation: Addressing Coastal Resilience and Climate Justice with Kate Orff and Marco Tedesco, moderated by Alex Halliday Register on Eventbrite: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/activism-in-science-addressing-coastal-resilience-and-climate-justice-tickets-293988416267?aff=CSO About this event The research is clear and incontrovertible, the climate emergency is causing sea level to rise, threatening millions of people around the world. These impacts will fall hardest on those with the least capacity to adapt. Please join us online for an illuminating discussion with world-leading landscape design innovator Kate Orff, renowned polar explorer Marco Tedesco and Climate School Dean Alex Halliday. Kate Orff is the Faculty Director of the Center for Resilient Cities and Landscapes, an Associate Professor at the Columbia Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, and Director of the Urban Design (MSAUD) Program. She coordinates complex, interdisciplinary studios centered on urban systems of the future with a focus on ecological infrastructure, global cities and climate adaptation. Kate is a registered landscape architect and a principal of SCAPE, an award winning, 30-person professional practice based in lower Manhattan. The firm has won national and local American Society of Landscape Architecture Awards for built projects, planning, and communications work. The work of the office has been featured on the cover of Landscape Architecture Magazine, Landscape Architecture Magazine China, and Topos, and in The New York Times, The New Yorker, and The Economist, among other publications. Marco Tedesco is a Lamont Research Professor at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University and Adjunct Scientist at the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS). He received his Laurea degree and PhD in Italy, from the University of Naples and the Italian National Research Council. He then spent five years as a postdoc and research scientist at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. He moved to CCNY in 2008 as an Assistant Professor where he was promoted to Associate Professor in 2012. During his time at CCNY, he founded and directed the Cryosphere Processes Laboratory and was a rotating Program Manage at the National Science Foundation between 2013 and 2015. In January 2016, he joined Columbia University. Dr. Tedesco’s research focuses on the dynamics of seasonal snowpack, ice sheet surface properties, high latitude fieldwork, global climate change and its implications on the economy and real estate. Alex Halliday is the Founding Dean of the Columbia Climate School and Director of Columbia University’s Earth Institute. He joined the Earth Institute in April 2018, after spending more than a decade at the University of Oxford, during which time he was dean of science and engineering. With about 400 published research papers, Halliday has been a pioneer in developing mass spectrometry to measure small isotopic variations, helping to shed light on the birth and early development of our solar system, the interior workings of the Earth, and the processes that affect Earth’s surface environment. Contact Information Emilie Dufour [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close