Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Summer Stars Lecture Series Summer Stars Lecture Series The Lamont Summer Stars Lecture Series, hosted by Columbia Climate School co-founding dean / Lamont director Maureen Raymo, brings inspiring speakers to the Columbia community whose work focuses squarely on the intersection of our humanity, nature, sustainability, and the Earth. Lamont Summer Stars 2021 July 15, 2021 Scalable Interdisciplinarity: How Science, Art, and Technology Combined to Counter Climate Misinformation with John Cook Monash Climate Change Communication Research Hub's John Cook, creator of Cranky Uncle vs. Climate Change and Skeptical Science discusses how to use art, humor, and critical thinking to counter climate misinformation. Scalable Interdisciplinarity: How Science, Art, and Technology Combined to Counter Climate Misinformation with John Cook October 5, 2021 Lamont Summer Stars Lecture with Geoff Green The second lecture in the 2021 series features polar educator Geoff Green, founder and president of the Students on Ice Foundation. SOI is an award-winning Canadian organization leading educational expeditions to the Arctic and Antarctic for students, educators, and researchers from all over the world. Green is especially known for his engagement and partnership with Canada’s Inuit and First Nation communities. Learn more. Summer Stars Lecture with Geoff Green, Founder & President, Students on Ice Foundation ~~~~~~~~~~ Lamont Summer Stars 2020 July 28, 2020 Life on the Water’s Edge Presenter: Marine biologist and activist Cristina Mittermeier Celebrated conservationist and photographer Cristina Mittermeier shares a message of hope in her quest to save the sea. "The ocean is really beautiful and I think the most important thing I can do with my photography is to frame the ocean as the solution to some of our biggest problems, like climate change, instead of as a victim," says Mittermeier. August 18, 2020 Be as a Tree Planted by the Waters: The Magic of Roots, Leaves, and Everything in Between Presenter: Geobiologist and author of Lab Girl and The Story of More Hope Jahren Trees are the oldest, biggest, and most successful creatures in the world. Using energy from the sun, and carbon from the air, they have thrived on land for more than four hundred million years. Hear about the amazing and unique methods that plants around us use to establish, grow, flourish, and defend themselves. Learn how plants are much more than food, medicine, and wood — they form the living, striving foundation of Planet Earth. September 17, 2020 Barriers to Public Acceptance of Climate Science, Impacts & Solutions Presenter: Award-winning climate scientist and Texas Tech University Climate Center director Katharine Hayhoe The challenge posed by human-induced climate change to society and the natural environment has been carefully and methodically summarized by thousands of peer-reviewed studies and decades’ worth of exhaustive reports. As the scientific evidence builds, however, public and political opinion in the U.S. and other developed nations remains sharply divided along ideological, socioeconomic, and religious lines. Understanding the reasons that have created and fed this polarization is crucial to the success of outreach efforts that attempt to bridge this divide and transition towards positive action based on a foundation of shared values and concerns. Barriers to Public Acceptance of Climate Science, Impacts & Solutions with Katharine Hayhoe Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close