Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Christopher Jackson Events Past Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Christopher Jackson Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 8, 2022 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium presents: Deformation above inflating igneous sills in sedimentary basins with Dr. Christopher Jackson, Chair in Sustainable Geoscience in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at the University of Manchester. Dr. Jackson works on a range of problems related to basin structure and evolution, focusing on: (i) the tectono-stratigraphic evolution of rift and salt basins: (ii) the processes and products of crustal magmatism; and (iii) the structure and emplacement of submarine landslides, drawing on traditional fieldwork techniques and subsurface (i.e. seismic reflection and borehole) datasets. Elements of this research is applied to: (i) the characterization and mitigation of geohazards; (ii) the locating and production of petroleum resources; and (iii) the sequestration of carbon dioxide in geological rock formations. In addition, Dr, Jackson is a leader in efforts to improve equality, diversity, and inclusivity in Earth Science. Specifically, Dr. Jackson i) works to reduce barrier to participation in undergraduate fieldwork, ii) addresses anti-Black racism in geoscience fieldwork, iii) works to improve the inclusion of LGBTQ+ staff and students in geoscience fieldwork, and iv) speaks often on the racial diversity crisis in geosciences. Lastly, Dr. Jackson is the founder of the popular EarthArXiv preprint hosting service. Additional information to follow. Contact Information Nicolas Young [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close