Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Gabriel A. Vecchi Events Past Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Gabriel A. Vecchi Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo January 21, 2022 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium presents Understanding Hurricanes: Past, Present and Future with Gabriel A. Vecchi, Professor of geosciences, the director of the High Meadows Institute, and deputy director of the Cooperative Institute for Modeling the Earth System at Princeton University. Tropical cyclones are one of the most destructive natural hazards, and an energetic element of the tropical climate system. The extent to which the character of tropical cyclones will change over the coming decades and centuries is therefore of substantial scientific significance and societal interest, as are the character of and causes behind historical changes in tropical cyclones. In what ways has tropical cyclone activity changed? To what extent are historical changes in tropical cyclones random perturbations, driven by natural fluctuations of the climate system, or influenced by radiative forcing changes (e.g., greenhouse gas increases)? In what ways do we expect tropical cyclones to change in the future and why? These questions will be explored through analyses of observational records, theoretical arguments, and high-resolution global and regional model experiments. Evidence that the recorded increase in Atlantic hurricane activity since the late-19th century is largely due to changes in observing practices will be presented - along with efforts to understand changes in hurricane activity over the past millennium and connect them to historic and projected future changes in activity. The mechanisms behind these fluctuations and changes will be discussed. The influence of greenhouse gases on past and projected future tropical cyclone changes will be described, along with discussions of crucial sources of uncertainty in interpreting the past and projecting the future. It will be argued that to understand changes in cyclone frequency it is essential to understand the climate-dependence of pre-tropical cyclone vortices (or "TC seeds"), along with a scaling argument connecting large-scale environmental conditions to TC seed frequency changes. This week’s Colloquium will he held via Zoom. Zoom link to follow on Friday morning. Contact Information Nicolas Young [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close