Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Pod of the Planet Ep. 10: The Ice Sheet Goeth Earth Sciences Pod of the Planet Ep. 10: The Ice Sheet Goeth In this episode, Kevin Krajick explores Marco Tedesco’s obsession with the cryosphere—the part of earth that consists of frozen water. By Kyu Lee September 22, 2020 Pod of the Planet · 10. The Ice Sheet Goeth Marco Tedesco loves ice; check the tattoos of snowflakes on his arm. In this episode of Pod of the Planet, Kevin Krajick explores Tedesco’s obsession with the cryosphere—the part of earth that consists of frozen water. Krajick who is the Earth Institute’s senior editor for science news, knows Tedesco well. He traveled with him to Greenland a few years back to see up close meltwater rushing into deep crevasses. He also recently talked to him about his new book, The Hidden Life of Ice: Dispatches From a Disappearing World. The takeaway: Greenland is melting at a rate greater than ever before. If the entire ice sheet melts, that would mean a catastrophic rise in sea level of 24 feet. Listen to Tedesco talk about why he’s devoted his life to this cold, dangerous and disappearing land. This year, Climate Week NYC takes place from September 21 to 27. Hundreds of digital events from all around the world will be covering the climate crisis and pressing for a future that does not depend on fossil fuels. Check out what’s going on at the Earth Institute. You can find Pod of the Planet wherever you listen to podcasts, on Apple iTunes, Spotify, Soundcloud, iHeartRadio and Stitcher. Please send feedback or questions to [email protected] Tags Climate Week NYC Greenland Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory podcasts PodPlanet News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close