Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News News News January 02, 2020 How Will Climate Change Impact the Gulf Stream? Evidence suggests that this major ocean current, which influences the weather in parts of Europe and the U.S., is already changing. December 27, 2019 10 Climate Change Impacts That Will Affect Us All And how to protect yourself from them. December 20, 2019 New Citizen Science Project Asks: Is It Snowing Plastics? The PlastiX-Snow project will track microplastics that contaminate Earth’s most remote and pristine locations. December 20, 2019 Con Ed Study Details Projected Climate Impacts on Energy Systems Report finds extreme heat, coastal storm surge, inland flooding and more violent storms will significantly impact the energy systems of the New York City area in the 21st century. December 18, 2019 A Climate Change Double Whammy in the U.S. Corn Belt Warming temperatures create two major drying trends, jeopardizing corn and soybean crops. December 17, 2019 In Ancient Scottish Tree Rings, a Cautionary Tale on Climate, Politics and Survival Using old tree rings and archival documents, historians and climate scientists have detailed an extreme cold period in Scotland in the 1690s that caused immense suffering. It may have lessons for Brexit-era politics. December 17, 2019 Undersea Volcanism May Help Explain Medieval Year of Darkness Tropical fossils found in a Greenland ice core hint at volcanic eruptions that threw the world into darkness from 536 to 537 A.D. December 11, 2019 Data Visualization Translates Geyser Eruption Data Into Eerie Music The project earned grad student Anna Barth a grand prize in the American Geophysical Union’s competition on Data Visualization and Storytelling. December 11, 2019 Spring 2020 Earth Institute Undergraduate Research Assistant Opportunities A variety of undergraduate research assistant positions are available. Apply by January 29, 2020. December 09, 2019 Sailing Stone Track Discovered ‘Hiding in Plain Sight’ in Dinosaur Fossil The “walking rock” track suggests that a massive volcanic winter may have frozen the tropics during the dawn of the dinosaur age. December 09, 2019 Newly Identified Jet-Stream Pattern Could Imperil Global Food Supplies, Says Study Scientists have identified systematic meanders in the northern jet stream that cause simultaneous crop-damaging heat waves in widely separated regions—a previously unknown threat to global food production that could worsen with warming. December 09, 2019 Spring 2020 Earth Institute Internship Opportunities A variety of undergraduate, graduate and PhD positions are available in various departments and research centers. Apply by January 29, 2019. December 04, 2019 Taro Takahashi, Who Uncovered Key Links Between Oceans and Climate Taro Takahashi, a seagoing scientist who made key discoveries about carbon dioxide and the earth’s climate, has died. In a career spanning more than 60 years, he and his colleagues documented how the oceans both absorb and give off huge amounts of carbon dioxide, exchanging it with the atmosphere. December 03, 2019 Within Sight of New York City, an Old-Growth Forest Faces Storms and Sea Level Rise On a peninsula within sight of New York City, researchers are studying trees dating as far back as the early 1800s. Rising seas and more powerful storms, both fueled by climate change, could eventually spell their end. December 03, 2019 Photo Essay: An Old-Growth Forest Near New York City Faces Storms and Sea-Level Rise Centuries-old trees on a peninsula near New York City could provide an important record of past storms. Researchers recently traveled there to sample the trees before they are wiped out by rising seas and powerful storms. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹ Previous Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Current page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 Next page Next › Last page Last » Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close