Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Perception and the Brain: Views From an Artist and a Scientist Events Past Event Perception and the Brain: Views From an Artist and a Scientist Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo February 22, 2022 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM America/New_York Jerome L. Greene Science Center, 3227 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Lecture Hall, L9-065 Show Map Perception and the Brain: Views From an Artist and a Scientist featuring Julie Mehretu and Charles Zuker, Ph.D. The Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute invites you to join us for an exploration of perception and the brain through two complementary presentations and audience Q&A. Internationally renowned visual artist and Alan Kanzer Artist-in-Residence Julie Mehretu will discuss her work and reflect on her interactions with neuroscientists at the Zuckerman Institute. Charles S. Zuker, Ph.D., Professor of Biochemistry, Molecular Biophysics and Neuroscience, and a world-renowned authority on the senses, will discuss how the brain performs its magic. Following the presentations, the speakers will answer questions from the audience. *Requirements for entry to this event CUID Holders/Columbia University: CUID holders must have completed the ReOpenCU protocol and obtained the ‘green’ pass to show at check-in and access the venue. General public: All visitors, including those who enter any campus facility for any period of time, must be fully vaccinated and show proof of vaccination as part of visitor attestation. *Fully vaccinated is 1 dose of Johnson & Johnson or 2 doses of Pfizer or Moderna. Such individuals would be required to follow the Visitor Policy and must have proof of vaccination and comply with other Columbia University safety protocols. Check-in entrance: Greene Science Center Lobby, 3227 Broadway (between 129th and 130th streets) Joining virtually? Select the option for virtual attendance after clicking below and receive a link on the day of the event via email. This program is made possible with the generous support of Alan Kanzer. Columbia University’s School of the Arts and Zuckerman Institute are grateful to Mr. Kanzer for his generosity and commitment to fostering interactions between the arts and neuroscience. Contact Information Zuckerman Institute Programs Office [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close