Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Reconstructing 6.5 Million Years of Western Mediterranean Sea Levels Climate Reconstructing 6.5 Million Years of Western Mediterranean Sea Levels Researchers have reconstructed past sea levels in the western Mediterranean in new detail by sampling coastal cave formations. By Earth Institute January 21, 2021 With a critical need to predict how quickly sea levels will rise in the coming centuries, scientists are drawing on evidence from past periods when the earth’s climate was as warm, or warmer, than today. In a new study, an international team of scientists has used cave deposits from the Mediterranean island of Mallorca, off Spain, to reconstruct past sea levels. The vertical extent of these deposits, known as phreatic overgrowths, corresponds with the fluctuating water table, providing scientists with a way to measure past sea levels. The findings were published today in the journal Scientific Reports. The Mediterranean island of Mallorca, where sea levels have risen and fallen dramatically for millions of years. Researchers tracked past levels by sampling formations in coastal caves. (B.P. Onac) The team aimed to document the position and timing of sea levels during key time intervals over the past 6.5 million years for which global mean sea-level estimates have been highly uncertain. The project expanded on research published last year in the journal Nature, by investigating samples that are either older or younger than the relatively warm Pliocene epoch (5.3 million to 2.58 million years ago). As part of the project, they applied numerical and statistical models to adjust for changes in the level of the land itself, including shifts caused by the waxing and waning of glaciers, and long‐term uplift in the region. They then translated local sea-level estimates into global mean sea level. Their results show that during key time events, such as Pliocene–Pleistocene Transition (some 2.58 million years ago), global mean sea level stood at 6.4 meters above the present, whereas during the beginning and the end of the Mid‐Pleistocene Transition (a time of repeated glaciations 1.25 million to 0.7 million years ago), sea levels were 1.1 and 5 meters lower than at present, respectively. “Overall, our results support that sea level dropped significantly after the Pliocene,” said the study’s lead author, Oana A. Dumitru, a University of South Florida PhD. alumna who is now a postdoctoral researcher at Lamont-Doherty. Lead author Oana Dumitru shows where the team drilled samples from a cave formation. (B.P. Onac) The authors also showed that local sea level before and at the onset of the Messinian Salinity Crisis (a time 5.96 million to 5.33 million years ago, during which the Mediterranean largely dried up), was approximately 33 meters above present level. These estimates may offer starting points for assessing whether sea-level drops in the western Mediterranean happened gradually or rapidly, the researchers said. “These results therefore contribute to efforts of studying past warm periods to gain insight into the magnitude and frequency of sea level rise,” the researchers wrote. Dumitru was joined in the research by Lamont-Doherty geodynamicist Jacqueline Austermann; Victor J. Polyak and Yemane Asmerom of the University of New Mexico; Joan J. Fornós, Joaquin Ginés and Angel Ginés of Universitat de les Illes Balears in Mallorca, Spain; and Bogdan P. Onac of the University of South Florida. The research was funded by the U.S. National Science Foundation and the Spanish State Research Agency. Adapted from a press release by the University of South Florida. Tags climate change Global Warming Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Mediterranean Pliocene research-home sea levels News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close