Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home People Gisela Winckler Gisela Winckler Gisela Winckler is a Lamont Research Professor at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory where she also serves as the Associate Director of the Geochemistry Division. She received her Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Heidelberg in 1998. She was a researcher at the International Atomic Energy Agency before joining Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in 2001. Winckler has been a leader in paleoceanography and the interplay of climate change, carbon cycle and aerosols since 2003. As an environmental physicist and isotope geochemist she uses elemental and isotopic analyses (noble gases, U-Th series, cosmogenic and radiogenic isotopes) to unravel processes of climate and environmental change in the oceans and on continents, on timescales ranging from decades to tens of millions of years. Her research uses climate archives such as deep-sea sediments, lake sediments and polar ice cores from Antarctica and Greenland. Her reconstructions of past climates are key to understanding the climate system’s sensitivity to natural variability and anthropogenic perturbations. Winckler has published more than 100 peer-reviewed scientific papers, including in Nature, Science, Nature Geoscience, Science Advances and the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Winckler is passionate about mentoring graduate students and postdocs, and a recent recipient of the LDEO Excellence in Mentoring Award. She teaches in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences. She has served as the ‘Climate Scientist in Residence’ at Columbia’s Journalism School where she has been involved in developing innovative course material at the interface of journalism, climate science and art. She is deeply engaged in the JEDI (Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion) space. She served as the co-chair of the Lamont Diversity Equity and Inclusion Task Force, and currently co-teaches a seminar on Climate Change, Race and Environmental Justice. More details at wings.ldeo.columbia.edu. Fields of Interest Climate Change and Climate Science The role of the ocean in the climate system and the carbon cycle, with a particular focus on the Southern Ocean and Pacific. Paleoclimate and Paleoceanography A better understanding of past climates is key to quantifying the climate system’s sensitivity and response to natural variability and anthropogenic perturbations. Winckler's current research focuses on the Pliocene, Quaternary ice age cycles, abrupt climate and environmental changes, as well as climatic extremes in the deep Earth history. She uses elemental and isotopic analyses to unravel processes of climate and environmental change in the oceans and on continents, on timescales ranging from decades to tens of millions of years. Her group (WINGS - Winckler Isotope and Noble Gas Laboratory) studies a variety of climate and environmental archives such as deep-sea sediments, lake sediments and polar ice cores from Antarctica and Greenland. Winckler applies a wide spectrum of analytical techniques, including sector-field mass spectrometry and ICP-MS to perform high-precision measurements of a variety of isotope tracers, including noble gases, stable isotopes, radiogenic and cosmogenic isotopes. Education 1998 PhD, University of Heidelberg 1993 M Sc (Diplom), University of Heidelberg Honors & Awards 2020 Excellence Award, Petersen-Foundation (20,000 Euro) 2019 Climate Scientist in Residence, Journalism School, Columbia University 2018 Elected Member of the Advisory Council, The Climate Museum, NYC 2017 Fellow, Center for Climate and Life 2016 PVE Award, Pontifical Catholic University of Chile 2015 LDEO Excellence in Mentoring Award 2010 Kavli Fellow, Invited participant at Kavli Frontiers of Science Symposium U.S. National Academy of Sciences and Alexander von Humboldt Foundation of Germany Lamont Research Professor, Geochemistry; Associate Director, Geochemistry; Adjunct Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences (DEES) Areas of Expertise marine geochemistry paleoclimate paleoceanography climate Southern Ocean carbon cycle Contact Info Comer 139 61 Route 9W Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Palisades, NY 10964 845-365-8756 [email protected] https://wings.ldeo.columbia.edu/people/gisela-winckler Twitter Google Scholar Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close