Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News No Longer Just ‘Girl Talk’ Earth Sciences No Longer Just ‘Girl Talk’ Fifth graders commemorate pioneering mapmaker Marie Tharp using comics, pictures, and poems. By Cassie Xu March 08, 2021 This story is part of a series celebrating the work of women at the Earth Institute, in honor of International Women’s Day on March 8, 2021. Read more about the day and our related blog posts here. Marie Tharp with one of her maps. Image: Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and the estate of Marie Tharp Working during a time when women were not usually welcome in the sciences, Marie Tharp gave us foundational knowledge that is critical to our modern understanding of geology and the oceans. She seamlessly integrated science, art, and cartography to create hand-drawn maps that revealed new findings about our ocean floors. Born in Ypsilanti, Michigan in 1920, Marie worked in the petroleum industry before arriving at Columbia University. Her drafting skills led her to a career in the earth sciences in 1948, when she started work as a research assistant at the Lamont Geological Observatory (now the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, the largest research center of the Earth Institute at Columbia University). She was given a large dataset of echo-sounding data — profiles of depth to the seafloor collected by research vessels traversing the oceans. The data looked much like an EKG reading, and they were presented on never-ending rolls of paper; Marie was given the task of figuring out how to represent these data in a meaningful way. Her attention to detail and her commitment to accurately sketching the ocean’s vast seafloor led her and colleague Bruce Heezen to publish the first map of the Atlantic in 1957. From this map, we learned that the seafloor was not simply flat, but that it was instead covered in canyons, ridges, and mountains. Leading up to the publication of this map, she also made a stunning discovery of a 10,000-mile-long ridge in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, which we now know marks the gradual separation of tectonic plates. At the time, Tharp suggested the ridges supported Alfred Wegener’s theory of continental drift, but her hypothesis was dismissed as “girl talk” and scientific heresy. Nevertheless, she persisted and stood firm in her beliefs. Thanks in part to Jacques Cousteau, who set out with an underwater camera to prove her wrong, we now know that the lava-filled valley surrounded by two sharp ridges was irrefutable evidence that the continents and their underlying plates are constantly moving. Tharp was a trailblazer in many ways, and on this International Women’s Day, we pay tribute to her work, her talent, and her unapologetic quest to learn and seek answers about the planet we inhabit. One of the most meaningful ways that we can pay tribute to such an iconic scientist is not only to recognize her work, but to remember and share her story with younger generations. This led the Earth Institute’s Office of Education and Outreach to team up with Anne Orenstein’s grade 5 class at P.S. 205 in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. Ms. Orenstein’s class had recently read Ocean Speaks and Solving the Puzzle Under the Sea, two prominent children’s books that captured Tharp’s discoveries that were pivotal to the theory of plate tectonics. After reading these two books and exploring numerous resources available about Marie Tharp, the students met Dr. Vicki Ferrini, a senior research scientist at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. Dr. Ferrini’s own work is in global ocean floor mapping, which would not be possible without Tharp’s pioneering efforts. After meeting Dr. Ferrini and researching information about Tharp’s accomplishments, the fifth grade students of P.S. 205 produced a variety of different works to share important stories about Tharp for International Women’s Day. Below, you will find the students’ works, some done individually and others created in teams, all honoring Tharp’s contributions to our understanding of the planet. In an era where female scientists were routinely dismissed, Marie Tharp’s determination and commitment to her work allowed her to make big waves. We hope that her stories and adventures have inspired and will continue to inspire generations of budding female earth scientists. Thank you sincerely to the grade 5 students of Ms. Orenstein’s class for honoring her legacy! “I made a project featuring a letter from Marie Tharp’s teacher. It talks about all the accomplishments about Marie Tharp.” — Alicia “I made a BioComic based on Marie Tharp’s life. I drew different panels with different events that happened in Marie’s life (and some are just for fun and humor).” — Oscar “I wrote a biography about Marie Tharp.” — Cyndey “My project is a drawing of Jacques Cousteau recording the seafloor with a camera, trying to prove Marie Tharp’s theory wrong.” — Laura “My project is a poem about Marie Tharp. The poem is about her, what she discovered, and her map.” — Francis “I made a poster about Marie Tharp and I put pictures and captions on it. I also made a paragraph stating Marie Tharp’s life.” — Jayden “My project is a poem about Marie Tharp. The poem shows some of her discoveries and the problems she faced.” — Raniya “I repainted one of Marie Tharp’s world maps. I did this because I wanted to show the beauty of Marie’s maps.” — Anna “My project is a timeline. The timeline is about Marie Tharp and her works and maps.” — Lucas “The project we created was a writing piece dedicated to Marie Tharp. It was in an article/magazine like style.” — Tony and Lucy “My project is a model of what an old newspaper would have been like when Marie Tharp was proven correct, as she is a girl! The newspaper would have given a reaction but what was it? That is what my project represents!” — Yasmin Tags International Women's Day Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Marie Tharp Women in Science News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close