Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home About Awards Outside Awards Outside Awards Expand all Collapse all 2022 Awards Robin Bell Robin Bell, Marine Geology and Geophysics Associate Director and Palisades Geophysical Institute Lamont Research Professor, was selected for a Fulbright award to work in Australia in the academic year 2022-2023. Nicholas Christie-Blick Nicholas Christie-Blick, Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Sciences (AAAS). Kerstin Lehnert Kerstin Lehnert, Doherty Senior Research Scientist in the Marine Geology and Geophysics Division and Director of the Geoinformatics Research Group at Lamont, received the Doris-Schachner-Medal by the German Mineralogical Society (Deutsche Mineralogische Gesellschaft DMG). Maureen E. Raymo Maureen E. Raymo, Co-Founding Dean, Columbia Climate School; Director, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory; G. Unger Vetlesen Professor of Earth and Climate Sciences Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Columbia University has: been elected a Member of The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in the Class for Geosciences. received an Environmental Champion Award from New York State Senator Elijah Reichlin-Melnick. William B.F. Ryan William B.F. Ryan, Special Research Scientist, Marine Geology and Geophysics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was awarded the Lyell Medal by the Geological Society of London. Expand all Collapse all 2021 Awards Ryan Abernathey Ryan Abernathey, Associate Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Early Career Award from The Oceanography Society, and received the Charles S. Falkenberg Award from the American Geophysical Union. Jacqueline Austermann Jacqueline Austermann, Assistant Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, has been selected as an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow in Earth Sciences by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Alexandra Boghosian Alexandra Boghosian, Postdoctoral Research Scientist, Marine Geology and Geophysics, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received a 2021 Prize Award from the Lotos Foundation. Oana-Alexandra Dumitru Oana-Alexandra Dumitru, Postdoctoral Research Scientist, Biology and Paleo Environment Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the 2020 Young Investigator Award from Quaternary Journal. Vicki Ferrini Vicki Ferrini, Senior Research Scientist, Marine Large Programs, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected as one of the inaugural Fifty People Changing the World by The Explorers Club. Sidney R. Hemming Sidney R. Hemming, Co-Chair, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Professor, Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected as a Guggenheim Fellow by the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, and received the Laurence L. Sloss Award from the Geological Society of America. Peter B. Kelemen Peter B. Kelemen, Arthur D. Storke Memorial Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Harry H. Hess Medal from the American Geophysical Union. Chia-Ying Lee Chia-Ying Lee, Lamont Assistant Research Professor, Ocean and Climate Physics, Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Natural Hazards Early Career Award from the American Geophysical Union. Jerry F. McManus Jerry F. McManus, Chair and Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow by the American Geophysical Union. William B. Ryan William B. Ryan, Special Research Scientist, Marine Geology and Geophysics, was elected a Foreign Fellow by Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei. Mingfang Ting Mingfang Ting, Associate Director and Lamont Research Professor, Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Distinguished Scientific/Technical Accomplishment Award in Climate Variability and Change, from the American Meteorological Society. Expand all Collapse all 2020 Awards Suzana Camargo Suzana Camargo, Marie Tharp Lamont Research Professor, Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Distinguished Scientific/Technical Accomplishment Award in Climate Variability and Change from the American Meteorological Society. Arnold L. Gordon Arnold L. Gordon, Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, will receive the 2020 Henry Stommel Research Medal from the American Meteorological Society. Sidney R. Hemming Sidney R. Hemming, Chair, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Professor, Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the Geochemical Society and the European Association of Geochemistry. Michael C. Jollands Michael C. Jollands, Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Outstanding Early Career Scientist Award in the Geochemistry, Mineralogy, Petrology & Volcanology Division from the European Geosciences Union. Yochanan Kushnir Yochanan Kushnir, Lamont Research Professor, Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union. Galen McKinley Galen McKinley, Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Ocean Sciences Voyager Award from the American Geophysical Union. Adam H. Sobel Adam H. Sobel, Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the American Meteorological Society. Taro Takahashi Taro Takahashi (1930 - 2019), Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Lamont Special Research Scientist, posthumously awarded the first Wallace S. Broecker Medal from The Oceanography Society. Mingfang Ting Mingfang Ting, Associate Director and Lamont Research Professor, Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the American Meteorological Society. Gisela Winckler Gisela Winckler, Associate Director and Lamont Research Professor, Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was awarded the Excellence in Research Award by the Werner Petersen Foundation. Expand all Collapse all 2019 Awards Jacqueline Austermann Jacqueline Austermann, Assistant Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Jason Morgan Early Career Award from the Tectonophysics Section of the American Geophysical Union. Rosanne D’Arrigo Rosanne D’Arrigo, Associate Director, Lamont Research Professor, Biology and Paleo Environment Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union. Sonya Dyhrman Sonya Dyhrman, Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Biology and Paleo Environment Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Microbiology. Göran Ekström Göran Ekström, Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected to the National Academy of Sciences. Vicki Ferrini Vicki Ferrini, Research Scientist, Marine Geology and Geophysics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Special Achievement in GIS (SAG) Award from Esri. Michael Kaplan Michael Kaplan, Lamont Associate Research Professor, Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the Geological Society of America. Lorenzo M. Polvani Lorenzo M. Polvani, Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union. Maureen E. Raymo Maureen E. Raymo, Bruce C. Heezen Lamont Research Professor, Biology and Paleo Environment Division, Director, Core Repository, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the Geological Society of America, and received the Maurice Ewing Medal from the American Geophysical Union and the U. S. Navy. Expand all Collapse all 2018 Awards Suzana J. Camargo Suzana J. Camargo, Lamont Research Professor, Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Editor's Award from the American Meteorological Society. Steven L. Goldstein Steven L. Goldstein, Higgins Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Associate Director, Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Norman L. Bowen Award from the Volcanology, Geochemistry and Petrology Section of the American Geophysical Union. Sidney R. Hemming Sidney R. Hemming, Professor and Chair, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union. Bärbel Hönisch Bärbel Hönisch, Associate Professor, Department of Environmental Sciences, and Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Willi Dansgaard Award from the Paleoceanography and Paleoclimatology Section of the American Geophysical Union. Kerstin A. Lehnert Kerstin A. Lehnert, Director, Geoinformatics Research Group, Director, Interdisciplinary Earth Data Alliance, Doherty Senior Research Scientist, Marine Geology and Geophysics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Ian McHarg Medal from the European Geosciences Union. Terry A. Plank Terry A. Plank, Arthur D. Storke Memorial Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory received the Wollaston Medal from the Geological Society of London. Maureen E. Raymo Maureen E. Raymo, Bruce C. Heezen Lamont Research Professor, Biology and Paleo Environment Division, Director, Core Repository, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was selected one of the Top 50 Women in STEM by TheBestSchools.org. Richard Seager Richard Seager, Palisades Geophysical Institute Lamont Research Professor, Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union. Expand all Collapse all 2017 Awards Mark A. Cane Mark A. Cane, G. Unger Vetlesen Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Ocean and Climate Physics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Vetlesen Prize from the G. Unger Vetlesen Foundation. Steven L. Goldstein Steven L. Goldstein, Higgins Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, and Associate Director, Geochemistry Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was elected a Fellow of the Geochemical Society and the European Association of Geochemistry. Einat Lev Einat Lev, Lamont Associate Research Professor, Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received a Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award from the National Science Foundation. Kerstin A. Lehnert Kerstin A. Lehnert, Director, Geoinformatics Research Group, Director, Interdisciplinary Earth Data Alliance, Doherty Senior Research Scientist, Marine Geology and Geophysics Division, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received the Distinguished Service Award from the Geochemical Society. Maureen E. Raymo Maureen E. Raymo, Bruce C. Heezen Lamont Research Professor, Biology and Paleo Environment Division, Director, Core Repository, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, received an Honorary Degree of Doctor of Science from Lancaster University, and was elected a Fellow of The Explorers Club. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close