Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News High Winds, Rough Seas, and Winch Problems Earth Sciences High Winds, Rough Seas, and Winch Problems Researchers studying earthquake hazards in the Caribbean faced several challenges at sea, from rough weather to equipment failures. By Cecilia McHugh January 20, 2022 From January 16 to 19, the R/V Pelican transited from offshore Jamaica towards Haiti along the Jamaica Passage. Beneath the ocean waters, on the seafloor, we could track the linear trace of the submarine Enriquillo-Plantain Garden Fault zone on surface maps. We took sediment cores during the night time. Photo: Cecilia McHugh We had problems with the winch and cable that support the weight of the jumbo gravity coring system (“Big Bertha”) as it descends and ascends through the water column. We had to change the coring operation to the starboard (right) side of the ship, where there is a smaller winch that we could use. The starboard winch supports less weight than the previous one, so we needed to use a smaller coring head and shorter pipes. This means that the length of the core we recover is shorter, so the sediment layers do not reach as far back in time. With the Big Bertha system, we could recover six meters. With this smaller system, only one meter. Photo: Cecilia McHugh Instrument problems and rough seas are common in seagoing expeditions and we normally have several back-up systems in case something breaks while we are far away from land. This is such a case. Storm moon and rough seas along the Jamaica Passage. Photo: Cecilia McHugh As the prevailing winds that blow along the Jamaica Passage picked up speed, the swells became higher and the oceans rougher. The Jamaica Passage is an open seaway where winds tend to be strong, making coring operations challenging. But, Chris Fanshier and Ben Freiberg (shown below) are doing a great job handling the recovery of the cores considering the sea surface conditions. They are both very experienced, and we are lucky to have them. Chris Fanshier (back) and Ben Freiberg (front). Photo: Cecilia McHugh Tags Cecilia McHugh Earthquake Hazards in Haiti and Jamaica Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory sediment cores News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close