Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Age Newly Verified, One of Oldest Prehuman Fossils Leads to New Finds Earth Sciences Age Newly Verified, One of Oldest Prehuman Fossils Leads to New Finds Controversy over the age of an early fossil of Homo erectus has been settled, and has led to other specimens. By Earth Institute April 13, 2021 A new study verifies the age and origin of one of the oldest specimens of Homo erectus, a very successful early human who roamed the world for nearly 2 million years. In doing so, the researchers also found two new specimens—likely the earliest pieces of a Homo erectus skeleton yet discovered. Details are published today in the journal Nature Communications. Homo erectus is the first known early human that had a body very similar to that of modern humans. It had longer lower limbs than upper limbs, a torso shaped more like ours, and a larger cranial capacity than earlier hominids. In 1974, scientists in the East Turkana region of Kenya found one of the oldest pieces of evidence for H. erectus: a small skull fragment that dates to 1.9 million years. The specimen is surpassed in age only by a 2-million-year-old skull specimen in South Africa. But there was pushback, with some researchers arguing that the East Turkana specimen could have come from a younger fossil deposit and was possibly moved by water or wind to the spot where it was found. Partial pelvis of an early human, found in northwest Kenya. (A. Hammond/American Museum of Natural History) To verify exactly where the fossil was found, the researchers in the new study, led by Ashley Hammond of the American Museum of Natural History, relied on archival materials and geological surveys. They went through hundreds of pages from old reports and published research. They also used satellite data and aerial imagery. After reassessing the initial evidence and searching for new clues, they found that the specimen was actually from a somewhat different area than initially reported. This newly established location had no evidence of a younger fossil outcrop that may have washed there. This supported the original age given to the fossil. Within 50 meters of this reconstructed location, the researchers also found two new early-human fossils: a partial pelvis and a foot bone. Although the researchers say the fragments could be from the same individual, there is no way to prove that, after the fossils have been separated for so long. But they might be the earliest postcranial—“below the head”—specimens yet discovered for H. erectus. The scientists also collected fossilized teeth from other vertebrates, mostly mammals, from the area. From the enamel, they collected and analyzed isotope data to paint a better picture of the environment in which the H. erectus individual lived. “Our new carbon isotope data from fossil enamel tell us that the mammals found in association with the Homo fossils in the area were all grazing on grasses,” said Kevin Uno, a paleoecologist at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. “The enamel oxygen isotope data suggest it was a relatively arid habitat based on comparisons to other enamel data from this area.” The evidence suggests that this early H. erectus lived with animals that preferred open areas to forests. It was probably near a stable body of water, as documented by freshwater sponges preserved in the rocks. Key to the field work driving this study were the students and staff from the Koobi Fora Field School, which provides undergraduate and graduate students with on-the-ground experience in paleoanthropology. The school is run through a collaboration between The George Washington University and the National Museums of Kenya. Support for the study was provided in part by the U.S. National Science Foundation, Brazil’s Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo, and the American Museum of Natural History. Tags Africa anthropology fossils Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory research-home News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close