Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Climate Justice Workshop Events Current and Upcoming Climate Justice Workshop Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo June 21, 2022 9:30 AM - 5:00 PM America/New_York On Campus TBD Climate Resilience Workshop: Bridging the gap between climate risk and environmental justice through community training & data literacy in NYC Location: TBD (either the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory or on Morningside Campus. Participants will be notified by the closing of the abstract deadline). A virtual option will be available. Registration: Register here Contact: [email protected] and Marco Tedesco [email protected] At the intersection of climate risk and environmental justice, there is a pivotal but poorly quantified relation between socially vulnerable people and their exposure to climate change hazards. We invite community leaders, climate advocates, policymakers, educators, and students to discuss how to bridge gaps and break down barriers that limit community empowerment and their access to scientific information. Strong emphasis will be given to the NYC area but everyone is welcome to join, virtually or in person. At the end of the workshop, participants will walk away with an understanding of best practices and a roadmap to improve collaboration between stakeholders to properly tackle the unjust impacts of climate change hazards. A major theme will be Data Literacy and Democracy. Some of the questions the participants will aim at addressing are: How can we implement new tools and ways to increase data literacy in socially vulnerable communities especially when it comes to climate change and climate justice? What are the current barriers that are blocking the flow of knowledge from the scientific community to stakeholders and policy makers when it comes to climate justice? How can climate scientists and the scientific community actively contribute to empower socially-vulnerable communities at risk? During the first part of the Workshop, participants will be exposed to selected talks focusing on overarching themes from experts in the field and test cases from participants. After lunch, breakout sessions on topics identified during the morning will be discussed by participants, followed by a discussion to summarize the outcome of the workshop and future directions. Please see detailed schedule below: Welcoming remarks: 9:30-945 am Spotlight presentations: 9:45-10:30 am - Experts will present overarching themes in the field. Break: 10:30-11:00 am Test case presentations & discussion: 11:00-12:50 pm - Volunteering participants to present successful test cases that demonstrate successful cases where data has been used to achieve climate justice goals. Lunch break: 12:50-2:00pm Breakout sessions: 2:00-3:30pm - Participants will be broken into 3 smaller groups to discuss how data literacy can be improved within vulnerable communities and the necessary next steps that can help empower individuals to take action. Break: 3:30-3:45 pm Group Discussion: 4:15-4:45pm - Participants discuss outcome of breakout sessions, experiences, and next steps for continued engagement. Organizing Committee: Marco Tedesco (LDEO/CU), Carson Witte (LDEO/CU), Holly Bunker (SUMA/CU), Azra Tanovic (New School), Christian Braneon (EJCJ, NASA), Anna-Kaye Barrett (CBS/CU), Brendan M. Buckley (LDEO/CU), Alexandra Bagnasco (SUMA/CU) Contact Information Climate Justice Workshop [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close