Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Reactions That Store Carbon Underground Can Cause Cracking. That’s Good News. Climate Reactions That Store Carbon Underground Can Cause Cracking. That’s Good News. A laboratory experiment found that as CO2 solidified, it caused the rock around it to crack. In real reservoirs, this process could open up space to pump in more CO2. By Sarah Fecht December 14, 2021 A comparison between the experiment’s original material (left), which was mostly olivine, and the products after reaction with CO2 — mainly of rhombic magnesite crystals and small blobs of silica. Source: Presentation by Catalina Sanchez-Roa One promising way to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere is to pump it underground, where it can react with certain rocks that transform the gas into a solid mineral. Scientists still have many questions to answer before this practice could be implemented on a large scale. One question is about what happens as the carbon mineralization process evolves — do the newly formed minerals clog the pores in the rock and prevent more CO2 from entering? Or do the additional minerals cause the surrounding rock to crack, opening up new areas where more CO2 can enter, react, and get stored? New laboratory results, presented at the fall meeting of the American Geophysical Union on Monday, may have cracked the case. They suggest that while there is quite a bit of clogging over time, cracks also form, which can keep the reactions going in a self-sustaining loop. The research, which has not yet been published, was presented by lead author Catalina Sanchez-Roa, an associate research scientist at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. “Carbon capture and storage is the only technology so far that can reduce atmospheric CO2 concentrations that are leading to climate change,” said Sanchez-Roa during a pre-recorded presentation. “We are interested in carbon mineralization because it is one of the most secure ways of storing carbon,” she added, and because it capitalizes on naturally occurring processes. Sanchez-Roa and her colleagues started with a sample of dunite — a type of rock from the Earth’s mantle that can bond with CO2 to form solid carbonate minerals. The team ground up the dunite into a powder and pressed it together, forming a tube-shaped sample. Then they put the tube into a machine called a triaxial deformation apparatus, which simulates the temperature and pressure conditions that might be found underground in the real rock reservoirs that are being eyed for carbon storage. The machine also has a variety of sensors that measured how the properties of the rock material changed as the researchers repeatedly injected it with CO2 over a period of 35 days. The triaxial deformation apparatus, which simulates conditions underground and measures a sample’s response to CO2 injection. Source: Presentation by Catalina Sanchez-Roa They found that the sample’s density increased over time, and its permeability decreased. This implies that some clogging took place while the carbon dioxide transformed into magnesite, quartz, silica, and elemental carbon. The machine also measured several unexpected acoustic emissions which, combined with other measurements such as decreases in pore pressure and increases in volume, indicated that cracks were forming within the sample. The cracks seemed to help the permeability to remain low but steady, as opposed to continuously decreasing as it had earlier in the experiment. The researchers note in their abstract that this is the first experimental evidence documenting cracking during the carbon mineralization process, and that the cracking helps to maintain permeability. They write: “These results confirm that the carbon mineralization process can be self-perpetuating through reaction-driven cracking (at least at the local scale), a process that is fundamental to upscaling engineered carbon mineralization as an efficient, and safe method for CO2 storage.” Next, they hope to continue the experiments in rocks that are intact, and to explore which temperature and pressure conditions are best for encouraging cracking. Sanchez-Roa’s co-authors include Ah-Hyung Alissa Park and Marc Spiegelman of Columbia University, and Jacob Tielke, Christine McCarthy, and Peter Kelemen of Columbia’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. Tags American Geophysical Union carbon storage decarbonization featured story Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory research-home News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close