Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Matthew Hayek Events Past Event LDEO Earth Science Colloquium with Matthew Hayek Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo February 18, 2022 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online Event The LDEO Earth Science Colloquium presents: Hamburgers in a Heated World: Providing Scientific Evidence in the Food Sustainability Debate with Matthew Hayek, Assistant Professor in Environmental Studies, New York University whose research quantifies the environmental impacts of our food system, with a specific focus on greenhouse gas emissions and contributions to climate change. Abstract: The global food system emits one third of greenhouse gases, breeds diseases with pandemic potential, and is the largest driver of deforestation, biodiversity loss, and freshwater depletion and pollution on Earth. Policies must address these urgent challenges without compromising food security. But food is also deeply personal, so debates quickly get heated and ideological, with polarized endpoints. My research aims to moderate food sustainability debates by quantifying the complex middle ground. I will highlight how my research operationalizes and tests high-profile proposals using mixed empirical methods, including remote sensing and geospatial statistics. I will discuss recently published analyses, which include quantifying tradeoffs in free-range meat production, constraining methane emissions from globally-expanding intensive animal production operations, and mapping land use and carbon opportunity costs of livestock production globally. I will also present forthcoming research on pastureland degradation and carrying capacity for livestock. This analysis constrains past estimates of potentially “cost-free” livestock production globally at a high spatial resolution. Preliminary results suggest that native grasslands presently support 32% of ruminant livestock herds, while the remaining 68% are raised on artificial pastures in native forest areas and on crop products, entailing tradeoffs with food security and ecosystem services. This work and far more is urgently needed to provide empirical guideposts to contentious debates, revealing and quantifying limits and opportunities for solutions to scale. I will conclude by discussing how more socially- and politically-responsive environmental science, when applied to food systems, can steer popular conversations and policymaking away from ideology and vested financial interests, and toward shaping food consumption and production more sustainably. The Earth Science Colloquium Series is sponsored by Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Columbia University Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences (DEES). This series provides a lively forum for discussing a wide variety of topics within the earth sciences and related fields. Colloquia are attended by the full range of scientific and technical staff at LDEO. Colloquium attendance is required of all pre-orals DEES graduate students. The Colloquium Series supports the Lamont Seminar Diversity Initiative. A Zoom link will be provided on the day of the lecture. Contact Information Nicolas Young [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close