Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Research Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock and Ice Mechanics Lab Rock and Ice Mechanics Lab “Now more than ever, we are growing our lab and building our program for exciting new experiments on both rock and ice.” Ben Holtzman, Christine McCarthy, and Rob Skarbek, Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Principal Investigators Research in the Rock and Ice Mechanics Lab encompasses many aspects of ice and rock deformation, with applications on Earth and throughout the solar system. Using lab experiments, we work to understand the physics of faulting, exploring the properties of rocks and ice from the micro scale of defects and asperities up to the macro scale of fault heating and rupture. This research informs our understanding of earthquake dynamics, and sheds light on anomalous heat production found in icy faults on earth and in the outer solar system. Follow us on Twitter. Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Research News Reactions That Store Carbon Underground Can Cause Cracking. That’s Good News. Tools of the Trade: A Machine That Squeezes Rocks to Mimic Earthquakes Christine McCarthy: A Cheerleader for the Physics of Ice Creating Earthquake Heat Maps: Temperature Spikes Leave Clues in the Rock Crushing Ice to Learn About Glaciers & Icy Moons Top Seismology Award Goes to Pioneer in Rock Mechanics: Christopher Scholz Viewing Melting Glaciers, Via Microscope and Moving Images More Research Stories Tools of the Trade: Machines that Squeeze and Tickle Rock and Ice In the Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab, we use various laboratory instruments to study the physical properties of materials that are important to Earth and planetary science. We study natural rocks and ice, with facilities for coring, sawing, and grinding of experimental samples. We have an adjacent machine shop, a central facility for more detailed jobs, and a cold room for ice sample preparation and storage. Learn more about the custom machines that we use for our research. Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Principal Investigators Ben Holtzman, Research Professor Ben offers his expertise on all things melt and microstructure-related. His research resides at the intersection of rock physics, seismology, and geodynamics. Christine McCarthy, Associate Research Professor Christine studies how material behavior (flow, fracture, friction) at various spatial and temporal scales influence microstructure, and vice versa. She is currently measuring effects of tidal forcing on both glacier flow rates and frictional heating of icy satellites. Rob Skarbek, Associate Research Scientist Rob has a broad interest in geomechanical problems, including accretionary wedge behavior, fluid-flow and frictional controls on aseismic slip, and tidal modulation of glacier flow. He is currently the PI on an NSF project to study densification of firn. Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Research Staff Jacob Tielke, Lab Manager, Associate Research Scientist Jacob studies the feedbacks between deformation processes and the transport/reaction kinetics in Earth and planetary bodies. He is currently gearing up the lab for carbon mineralization experiments as a form of CO2 mitigation, including installation of a wide array of AE sensors. Ted Koczynski, Research Engineer As a longtime lab technician, Ted keeps everything running smoothly and is spearheading the rehabilitation of old machinery and the design and fabrication of new capabilities, like gas mixing, L-block friction experiments and many more. Catalina Sanchez-Roa, Associate Research Scientist Catalina is interested in crustal rheology, fluid flow, geochemical reactions, and microstructure. She is heading up our Sloan-funded experiments on carbonization of mantle peridotite as a way of removing and safely storing CO2. Seth Saltiel, Postdoctoral Fellow Seth is performing laboratory experiments to measure the dependence of ice-on-till friction as a function of temperature, till composition, basal pore pressure, and time-dependent forcing. The results should elucidate certain aspects of glacial sliding. Vishaal Singh, Postdoctoral Scientist Vishaal studies ices in our solar system, including ice shell composition, surface age, and evolution. Under two NASA COLDTech grants, he is currently evaluating communication tethers at cryogenic and seismically hostile conditions for ocean world exploration. Hatsuki Yamauchi, Postdoctoral Scientist Hatsuki is an expert on the properties that control seismic attenuation, including grain size, temperature, and partial melt (including pre-melt). Her work at Lamont is to additionally look at the effect of strain-induced dislocation structure and density on attenuation, using ice as an analog to upper mantle rock. Maheenuz Zaman, Graduate Student Mahi is studying the influence of partial melt (ice + ammonia) on friction and stability of faults on icy satellites like Enceladus. In particular, he is exploring frictional heating as a potential pathway for surface oxidants, which may shed light on habitability of these worlds. Kristin Houdyshell, Research Assistant Kristin (Kris) is studying the physics of firn compaction and its rheology through experiments and numerical models to answer how firn compaction depends on physical parameters (density, temperature, stress). They are broadly interested in geophysical behavior and how material properties/microstructure, and vice versa, influence large scale processes. Xinyang Jiang, Research Assistant Xinyang is interested in geochemistry, mineralogy, and carbon capture, storage, and utilization, especially in carbon mineralization. He worked on reconstructing East African paleoclimate using stromatolites collected from Lake Abhe and Lake Turkana at Syracuse and is now working on the carbon mineralization project. Clare McGillis, Research Assistant Clare is a CU Engineering student helping us with design and fabrication of instruments for ice research. In particular she is working on a study of ice friction at enhanced g with colleagues in Carleton Labs. Sofya Levitina, REU Intern Sofya will be working on characterization of ice samples in the lab, in particular helping Dr. Yamauchi to identify strain-induced dislocations using a sample-mold technique and SEM imaging. Tyler Miller, REU Intern Tyler is conducting simulations of shallow earthquakes in subduction zones to help understand how different and complex types of fault zone behaviors, such as tsunami earthquakes and slow slip events occur. Research Alumni Michael Nielson completed his senior thesis on the microstructural evolution of ice samples and stayed on to design and fabricate several of the low temperature technologies. He continues to provide advice and guidance to the lab. Sarah Lambart split her time between rock mechanics and geochemistry as a postdoc to study reaction-driven cracking and permeability changes during carbonation of peridotite. Genevieve Coffey used biomarkers as indicators for coseismic slip along faults since biomarkers can record changes in temperature and thereby constrain frictional heating. She is currently an Earthquake geologist at GNS Science in New Zealand. Ben Robinson worked both on ice fabrication (as an undergraduate) and then on reaction-driven cracking. Kristina Okamoto performed triaxial experiments to understand fault roughness and earthquake nucleation. She’s finishing up her PhD at USCS. Nicholas van der Elst, NSF-EAR Postdoc fellow, used observational seismology and laboratory friction experiments to learn about earthquakes and fault mechanics and now works for the USGS. Heather Savage used experiments and field work to study many aspects of earthquake and fault mechanics including induced seismicity and fault heating. She is now a faculty member at U.C. Santa Cruz. Caitlin Dieck Locke, Columbia undergrad (2013) and research assistant, now Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory graduate student, conducted a research project on induced seismicity in the regions around wastewater injection locations. Hannah Rabinowitz studied coseismic shearheating as a way of understanding the energy release of earthquakes. She is now a AAAS Science and Technology Policy Fellow in the U.S. Dept. of Energy's Federal Energy Management Program. Rachel Sheppard, Columbia undergrad (2013) and research assistant, examined shear heating on faults by extracting organic molecules from sedimentary fault rock and analyzing it in a mass spectrometer. Armando Domingos did his senior thesis on partial melt microstructures applicable to icy satellites and earned his MS in Civil and Environmental Engineering at UC Berkeley. Mandy Duda, German University of Bochum Postdoc, visited the lab to run cyclic loading experiments under confining pressure using the triaxial apparatus. Photo Gallery Image Carousel with 51 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: That time the entire lab (Rob Skarbek, Ben Holtzman, Heather Savage, Christine McCarthy, Genevieve Coffey, Kristina Okamoto, and Seth Saltiel) attended the Gordon Research Conference on Rock Deformation (2018). Slide 2: Fran Boller, Chris Marone, Ted Koczynski, G. Boitnott, N. Yoshioko, and W. Wang in the lab (1988). Slide 3: Visiting Brown undergrads Allie Coonin and Jessica Minker wear "warm suits" to make samples in the cold room (2018). Slide 4: Catalina Sanchez-Roa shows off our exciting new toy: the hi T, hi P apparatus from NER (2021). Slide 5: Christine McCarthy works on some of the wiring for her custom cryogenic biaxial apparatus (2015). Slide 6: Self-proclaimed rock squeezer Christine McCarthy literally squeezes a rock to amuse the kids at Lamont Open House (2014). Slide 7: Visiting researcher Daning Zhong and Christine McCarthy pose in front of the triax control panel (2018). Slide 8: Heather Savage and Christine McCarthy share Champagne to celebrate ice sliding on rock for the first time ever in our lab (2015). Slide 9: To celebrate Hannah Rabinowitz successfully passing her oral exams, we celebrate our first cherry blossom viewing party, coined "Hannah-mi" (2015). Slide 10: A tradition continues: Rock Mechanics Lab celebrates hanami under the cherry blossom trees outside the lab (2017). Slide 11: Tess Caswell, Mike Nielson, Genevieve Coffey, and Rob Skarbek celebrate hanami (2018). Slide 12: Rock Mechanics Lab celebrates hanami, this time with Atsuko Namiki visiting from Hiroshima (2019). Slide 13: Hatsuki Yamauchi, Seth Saltiel, Ted Koczynski, and Jake Tielke celebrate hanami social-distance style (2021). Slide 14: Hatsuki Yamauchi dons warm clothes and gets ready to image ice samples in the cold room (2021). Slide 15: Heather Savage makes earthquakes happen with slider block set up at Lamont Open House (2014). Slide 16: High school intern Helen Lyons shows off her awesome experiments on ice + microplastics at AGU (2019). Slide 17: High school intern Will Kerin works on the set up for pressure film experiments to measure contact growth in ice (2019). Slide 18: High school summer interns study regelation vs. viscous deformation to understand glacier flow (2019). Slide 19: Summer interns "Team Cheddar" learn about ice and rock rheology by using cheese (2019). Slide 20: Summer interns "Team Jack" learn about ice and rock rheology by performing creep experiments on cheese (2019). Slide 21: Heather Savage preparing a rotary friction experiment at INGV in Italy. Slide 22: Jake Tielke and Ted Koczynski work on the triaxial apparatus from NER (2021). Slide 23: Rock Mechanics Lab (Hannah, Heather, Mike, and Christine) with, respectively, boyfriend (Martin), pup (Charlie), daughter (Norah, hiding), and baby (Seb) (2016). Slide 24: Visiting researcher Mandy Duda from Germany prepares a sample for the triax (2012). Slide 25: Visting researcher Mandy Duda and Ted Koczynski compare notes at the triax command center (2012) Slide 26: Chris Marone works the controls (are those chart recorders?) on one of the triaxial apparatuses (1987). Slide 27: Terry Engelder and Chris Marone show off their science-y lab coats (1990). Slide 28: Sporting blue hair, Mike Nielson discusses the LN-cooled cryostat with Christine McCarthy (while eternally sick from daycare Seb hangs on). Slide 29: Mike Nielson quantifies grain growth in ice using the cold room microscope (2014). Slide 30: Masao Nakatani, Chris Scholz, and a visitor in the lab (~2004). Slide 31: Nick van der Elst and Ted Koczynski change the seals on the hydraulic piston of the biax (2016). Slide 32: Nina Castro bundled up making seed ice in the freezer (2020). Slide 33: John Longhi, Ted Koczynski, Dave Walker, Chip Lesher, Marie (Krikitt) Johnson, and Peter McNutt enjoying rolling rocks after successfully rolling Walker's large gray press to make room for a larger blue press (1991). Slide 34: Visiting postdoc, Ted Koczynski, and Eric Tentheray in the lab (1994). Slide 35: Christine McCarthy doing some light machining while heavily pregnant (2013). Slide 36: Rock Mechanics Lab photo shoot (2017). Slide 37: Postdoc Sarah Lambart solders wires for a triax experiment (2014) Slide 38: Chris Scholz loads a sample in the triax while Terry Englander looks on (1978). Slide 39: Steve Brown (now at NER) in front of the biax. Slide 40: Ted Koczynski adjusts the solenoid valve on the new cryogenic biax (2014). Slide 41: Eric Tentheroy in front of the old triax. Slide 42: Vishaal Singh demonstrates a "necklace" of fiber optic cable and ice pieces, an early iteration on sample prep for tether testing (2019). Slide 43: Then postdoc Terry Engelder working the controls on a friction experiment (~1976). Slide 44: Catalina Sanchez-Roa prepares a sample for the triaxial apparatus while Ted Koczynski looks on (2021). Slide 45: Chris Scholz loading a sample into the top of a triaxial apparatus...one of several he used to have in the lab (~1975). Slide 46: Chris Scholz peeping underneath the pressure cell on the triax for a magazine photo shoot (~1970s) Slide 47: Ted Koczynski poses with the triax for a magazine photo shoot (~1970s). Slide 48: Laurie Riesberg in the lab before she went into geochemistry (>1975). Slide 49: Chris Scholz and Naoto Yoshioko outside the Marine Biology building (1989). Slide 50: Ted Koczynski and visitor in the lab (~2000). Slide 51: Grad student Maheenuz Zaman microtomes a sample in our new cold room (2021). That time the entire lab (Rob Skarbek, Ben Holtzman, Heather Savage, Christine McCarthy, Genevieve Coffey, Kristina Okamoto, and Seth Saltiel) attended the Gordon Research Conference on Rock Deformation (2018). Fran Boller, Chris Marone, Ted Koczynski, G. Boitnott, N. Yoshioko, and W. Wang in the lab (1988). Visiting Brown undergrads Allie Coonin and Jessica Minker wear "warm suits" to make samples in the cold room (2018). Catalina Sanchez-Roa shows off our exciting new toy: the hi T, hi P apparatus from NER (2021). Christine McCarthy works on some of the wiring for her custom cryogenic biaxial apparatus (2015). Self-proclaimed rock squeezer Christine McCarthy literally squeezes a rock to amuse the kids at Lamont Open House (2014). Visiting researcher Daning Zhong and Christine McCarthy pose in front of the triax control panel (2018). Heather Savage and Christine McCarthy share Champagne to celebrate ice sliding on rock for the first time ever in our lab (2015). To celebrate Hannah Rabinowitz successfully passing her oral exams, we celebrate our first cherry blossom viewing party, coined "Hannah-mi" (2015). A tradition continues: Rock Mechanics Lab celebrates hanami under the cherry blossom trees outside the lab (2017). Tess Caswell, Mike Nielson, Genevieve Coffey, and Rob Skarbek celebrate hanami (2018). Rock Mechanics Lab celebrates hanami, this time with Atsuko Namiki visiting from Hiroshima (2019). Hatsuki Yamauchi, Seth Saltiel, Ted Koczynski, and Jake Tielke celebrate hanami social-distance style (2021). Hatsuki Yamauchi dons warm clothes and gets ready to image ice samples in the cold room (2021). Heather Savage makes earthquakes happen with slider block set up at Lamont Open House (2014). High school intern Helen Lyons shows off her awesome experiments on ice + microplastics at AGU (2019). High school intern Will Kerin works on the set up for pressure film experiments to measure contact growth in ice (2019). High school summer interns study regelation vs. viscous deformation to understand glacier flow (2019). Summer interns "Team Cheddar" learn about ice and rock rheology by using cheese (2019). Summer interns "Team Jack" learn about ice and rock rheology by performing creep experiments on cheese (2019). Heather Savage preparing a rotary friction experiment at INGV in Italy. Jake Tielke and Ted Koczynski work on the triaxial apparatus from NER (2021). Rock Mechanics Lab (Hannah, Heather, Mike, and Christine) with, respectively, boyfriend (Martin), pup (Charlie), daughter (Norah, hiding), and baby (Seb) (2016). Visiting researcher Mandy Duda from Germany prepares a sample for the triax (2012). Visting researcher Mandy Duda and Ted Koczynski compare notes at the triax command center (2012) Chris Marone works the controls (are those chart recorders?) on one of the triaxial apparatuses (1987). Terry Engelder and Chris Marone show off their science-y lab coats (1990). Sporting blue hair, Mike Nielson discusses the LN-cooled cryostat with Christine McCarthy (while eternally sick from daycare Seb hangs on). Mike Nielson quantifies grain growth in ice using the cold room microscope (2014). Masao Nakatani, Chris Scholz, and a visitor in the lab (~2004). Nick van der Elst and Ted Koczynski change the seals on the hydraulic piston of the biax (2016). Nina Castro bundled up making seed ice in the freezer (2020). John Longhi, Ted Koczynski, Dave Walker, Chip Lesher, Marie (Krikitt) Johnson, and Peter McNutt enjoying rolling rocks after successfully rolling Walker's large gray press to make room for a larger blue press (1991). Visiting postdoc, Ted Koczynski, and Eric Tentheray in the lab (1994). Christine McCarthy doing some light machining while heavily pregnant (2013). Rock Mechanics Lab photo shoot (2017). Postdoc Sarah Lambart solders wires for a triax experiment (2014) Chris Scholz loads a sample in the triax while Terry Englander looks on (1978). Steve Brown (now at NER) in front of the biax. Ted Koczynski adjusts the solenoid valve on the new cryogenic biax (2014). Eric Tentheroy in front of the old triax. Vishaal Singh demonstrates a "necklace" of fiber optic cable and ice pieces, an early iteration on sample prep for tether testing (2019). Then postdoc Terry Engelder working the controls on a friction experiment (~1976). Catalina Sanchez-Roa prepares a sample for the triaxial apparatus while Ted Koczynski looks on (2021). Chris Scholz loading a sample into the top of a triaxial apparatus...one of several he used to have in the lab (~1975). Chris Scholz peeping underneath the pressure cell on the triax for a magazine photo shoot (~1970s) Ted Koczynski poses with the triax for a magazine photo shoot (~1970s). Laurie Riesberg in the lab before she went into geochemistry (>1975). Chris Scholz and Naoto Yoshioko outside the Marine Biology building (1989). Ted Koczynski and visitor in the lab (~2000). Grad student Maheenuz Zaman microtomes a sample in our new cold room (2021). Previous Next Featured Videos Icy Moons and Habitability: Looking for Friends in Cold Places with Christine McCarthy Experience The Hidden Music of Earthquakes (HBO) Listening to Earthquakes from Inside the Earth More Videos Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close