Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events LDEO Diversity Seminar with Rachel Bernard Events Past Event LDEO Diversity Seminar with Rachel Bernard Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo January 28, 2022 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online Event The LDEO Diversity Seminar Series presents: Who gets geoscience degrees? with Rachel Bernard, Assistant Professor of Geology, Amherst College Abstract: Geoscience is currently recognized as the least diverse of all STEM fields in the U.S., and racial disparities in graduate school and beyond are particularly striking. For example, while nonwhite people make up roughly 40 percent of US citizens and permanent residents, they earned only 14 percent of geoscience PhDs in 2020. Understanding the current diversity among geoscience students and professionals is a necessary first step to begin to answer pressing questions such as: Who gets geoscience degrees? What obstacles prevent certain groups from entering the geoscience workforce? Do we have a recruitment problem, a retention problem, or both, and why? What has and hasn’t worked in the past towards addressing these issues? What disciplines and institutions are actually moving the needle on increased representation, and what can we learn from them? In this presentation, I discuss my own educational and professional background and how this led me to become interested in diversity demographic data. I use data drawn from the Survey of Earned Doctorates from 1973–2020, including 4 years of unpublished data, to quantify trends in geoscience diversity. Finally, I reflect on how this work has informed my own sense of belonging in this overwhelmingly white field and at overwhelmingly white institutions. The data that I present highlights what we know, while also shedding light on what we don’t, and what we need to find out. A Zoom link will be provided on the day of the seminar. Contact Information Nicolas Young [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close