Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Lamont Open House at Home Events Past Event Lamont Open House at Home Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 13, 2021 - October 14, 2021 Online Event Whether you’re an aspiring young scientist or a long-time science enthusiast, you’re sure to enjoy Lamont-Doherty’s Open House. Join us for earth science talks for all ages, participate in hands-on earth science activities with our scientists from home, and learn from world-renowned researchers about their latest discoveries. Current Live Event Schedule (all times eastern): Wednesday, October 13 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM : Meet the Scientist: Kevin Uno (Suitable for K12 students) 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM: Beyond Hot Headlines: From Urgency to Agency 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM: The Power Pivot: The Wind Alternative Thursday, October 14 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM: Meet the Scientist: Kailani Acosta (Suitable for K12 students) The full schedule is in process and the most up-to-date information will be posted on the website at http://openhouse.ldeo.columbia.edu. We are also excited to offer another edition of our LDEO to GO K12 packet this year, with family-friendly activities that can be done at home. In your 2021 packet, you will find: Collectible scientist cards - Learn about 9 of our scientists and their amazing work. Wild Card – A blind card to draw yourself as your current or future scientist! Share your final product with us using the hashtag #LamontRocks. Who Said It and Find the Scientist Who – Two mix-and-match activities to uncover fun facts about our scientists and where they have been for fieldwork! Paper Craft Model – a special paper craft to create your own JOIDES Resolution research vessel. Sign up by October 7 if you would like to receive your kit in the mail by October 14. Be one of our first 100 sign-ups and receive limited edition collectible cards that are autographed by 6 of our featured scientists! If you miss the October 7 deadline, don’t fret! We will continue to take orders and ship until we run out. Please make sure to provide your shipping address at checkout. This item is free but is only available in limited quantities so we are only able to send 1 per mailing address. We are currently only able to ship within the United States. We also have a limited number of packets left from 2020. The packet includes a DIY glacier craft, a superhero scientist illustration, and a postcard from Antarctica. Please make sure to provide your shipping address at checkout. This item is free but is only available in limited quantities so we are only able to send 1 per mailing address. We are currently only able to ship within the United States. Contact Information Climate School Events [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close