Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Volcanoes May Have Large, Lasting Impacts on Global Precipitation Climate Volcanoes May Have Large, Lasting Impacts on Global Precipitation A new study employs natural climate archives such as tree rings to better understand volcanoes’ impacts on global rainfall patterns. By Kevin Krajick March 09, 2021 Large tropical volcanoes have caused some of the world’s most destructive natural disasters, with eruptions spewing out massive streams of harmful gases and hot debris that can wipe out everything in their path. But, what about wider impacts on global climate? Large eruptions are well known to temporarily cool the planet, but the picture is less clear when it comes to changes in the global distribution of rainfall. In a new study, a team of researchers from Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, the University at Albany and other institutions have used natural climate archives such as tree rings to better understand big eruptions’ global hydroclimate impacts over the past 1,000 years. Their results suggest that changes often are significant, and have persisted for more than a decade. Most notably, they observed abnormally dry conditions over tropical Africa, Central Asia and the Middle East, and unusually wet conditions over Oceania and the South American monsoon regions. The results were published this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The team identified all the known tropical eruptions in the past millennium that were larger than 1991’s Mount Pinatubo eruption, the biggest of the last 100 years. Then, using natural proxies that record local moisture conditions over time, they analyzed the aftereffects. The active Arenal Volcano, in Costa Rica. Eruptions from large tropical volcanoes like this may affect global rainfall patterns, a new study finds. (Ernesto Tejedor) “We have not had a major volcanic eruption in 30 years, so I think we tend to forget how large of a societal disruption they can cause,” said coauthor Matthias Vuille, a professor at the University at Albany. (Pinatubo caused average global temperature to drop 1 degree F over a 15-month period—the result of sulfur compounds high in the air that prevented solar energy from reaching the surface.) “Our proxy product adds new, real-world data to estimate the responses on a global scale, which suggests these eruptions can cause much larger and prolonged wet and dry anomalies than we initially believed.” “The trees, and the other natural climate archives were there to see these volcanic eruptions happen. It’s not a theoretical construct,” said coauthor Jason Smerdon, at Lamont-Doherty. “This was the first time we were able to use this new proxy product as an estimate of volcanic climate responses in the past, and the picture it paints has yielded surprises in terms of how large and persistent the hydroclimatic impacts of volcanism can be.” The new dataset used in the study, called the Paleo Hydrodynamics Data Assimilation (PHYDA) product, was created through a long-term project involving Lamont-Doherty scientists. PHYDA is a publicly available global reconstruction of temperature and hydroclimate conditions over the last 2,000 years, estimated by combining information from a climate model and a global collection of 2,591 tree-ring records, 197 coral and sponge records, 153 ice-core isotope records, 26 cave-sediment records, 10 lake-sediment records and one marine-sediment record. Using PHYDA, the researchers compared their new proxy-estimated changes with those derived exclusively from an existing climate model, which showed less drastic results. They say that understanding discrepancies between the proxy-based product and a stand-alone climate model are critical for projecting how future volcanic eruptions may affect global climate, especially considering the added impacts of human-influenced climate change. “If you look at past centuries and the frequency of large volcanic eruptions through history, it is very likely that we’ll see a similar-sized eruption before the end of this century, possibly more than one,” said lead author Ernesto Tejedor of UAlbany. “We believe our findings serve as an important warning that affected communities must not only think about immediate impacts, but that volcanic eruptions could lead to long-lasting changes in climate.” The study’s other authors are Nathan Steiger of Lamont-Doherty and Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and Roberto Serrano-Notivoli of the Autonomous University of Madrid. The study was supported by the U.S. National Science Foundation. Adapted from a press release by the University at Albany. Tags Climate Climate and Agriculture Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory rainfall Volcanoes News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close