Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events BPE Seminar | Dr. Michael Long (Renaissance Fiber, LLC) Events Past Event BPE Seminar | Dr. Michael Long (Renaissance Fiber, LLC) Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 7, 2022 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM America/New_York Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 61 Route 9W, Palisades, NY 10964 Comer Building, 1st Floor Conference Room Show Map This meeting will be hybrid: in-person at Comer Seminar Room and over Zoom. Please contact the seminar organizer with your full name to be cleared from the waiting room. Title: Economically viable industrial CO2 removal as part of the production of raw materials from industrial hemp Abstract: Renaissance Fiber, LLC -- a North Carolina company -- is developing scaled, low-cost, permanent CO2 removal as a built-in step in the production of materials from industrial hemp. In our system, CO2 removal is a byproduct of wastewater treatment, enables recovery of valuable raw material, and serves as a cost-reduction. Analogous to a thermodynamic chemical system, CO2 sequestration becomes economically "spontaneous", and its scale directly couples with demand for essential raw materials. Thus, it becomes possible to build scaled CO2 removal into core industrial operations. Functionally, our system represents a negative point source emission of CO2. This talk will present the basic concept we're employing, its basis in carbon cycling and established CO2 removal strategies, and how the system interfaces with the environment. Bio: Michael Long founded Renaissance Fiber in 2018 in response to loosening of restrictions on cultivation of industrial hemp in the US. Renaissance Fiber seeks to produce clean natural materials from hemp for textiles and other industries. Prior to founding Renaissance Fiber, Michael was a post-doc and research associate at Harvard University's John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, focusing on atmospheric and ocean chemistry and physics. He has a B.S. in Meterology from N.C. State University, an M.S. in Marine Science from the University of North Carolina - Wilmington, and a Ph.D. in Environmental Sciences from the University of Virginia. He is a native of North Carolina. Contact Information Hung Nguyen [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close