Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News News News May 22, 2020 Xiaomeng Jin Uses Satellite Imagery to Track Ozone Formation Her research as a Ph.D. student at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory has yielded important information for air quality control efforts. May 22, 2020 The 12 Questions Earth Scientists Should Ask in the Next 10 Years A committee has outlined what the U.S. National Science Foundation should focus on over the next decade. May 20, 2020 Congratulations to the 2020 Graduates in Sustainability and Environmental Science Earth Institute faculty offer their encouragement and advice for the newest crop of graduates who will change the world. May 15, 2020 EI LIVE K12: RSVP for Our June Sessions Students will make their own glacier goo, take a virtual drone flight over the ocean, and much more in these live sessions taught by Earth Institute experts. May 08, 2020 Potentially Fatal Combinations of Humidity and Heat Are Emerging Across the Globe A new study has identified thousands of incidents of previously rare or unprecedented extreme heat/humidity combinations in parts of Asia, Africa, Australia, South America and North America, including in the U.S. Gulf Coast region. May 07, 2020 Clay Layers and Distant Pumping Trigger Arsenic Contamination in Bangladesh Groundwater Widely considered a screen against contamination, clay layers may actually enhance arsenic leakage into some aquifers, study finds. May 04, 2020 Shrinking Snowcaps Fuel Harmful Algal Blooms in Arabian Sea Driven by changing climate, a uniquely resilient organism is taking over the Arabian Sea, disrupting food chains, fisheries, oil refineries and water desalination plants. April 30, 2020 How Catastrophic Floods May Have Carved Greenland’s ‘Grand Canyon’ In a new study, researchers propose a mechanism for how mega-canyons under northern Greenland’s ice sheet formed: from a series of catastrophic outburst floods that suddenly and repeatedly drained lakes of meltwater. April 28, 2020 EI LIVE K12: RSVP for Our Upcoming May Sessions Learn how to design your own microbe, decode Python script, and much more in these live sessions taught by Earth Institute experts. April 28, 2020 Project Takes A New Approach to Gauging New York City’s Emissions Estimates say the city releases about 50 million tons of carbon a year, but no one has actually measured it. A new project is trying to change that. April 24, 2020 Metal in Urine Provides Potential Noninvasive Test for Pancreatic Cancer New research shows that a signature of metal ions in urine may be an accurate indicator of one of the deadliest forms of cancer. April 21, 2020 A Study Looks at How to Disinfect Your Mask at Home It also compares the effectiveness of medical-grade masks with homemade ones, and tests the feasibility of improving masks with homemade nose clips. April 21, 2020 Waterfront Development Added Billions to Property Values Exposed to Hurricane Florence Rapid development in flood-prone zones during recent decades helped boost the amount of property exposed to the 2018 hurricane substantially, a new study says. April 20, 2020 Beautiful Planet: Earth Institute Photos From Around the Globe This year marks the 50th anniversary of Earth Day. To celebrate, we’re sharing images of places and projects around the world that highlight our planet’s incredible beauty. April 17, 2020 Earth Day: How to Celebrate While You’re Sheltering in Place There are many ways to get involved, take action, or simply marvel at the beauty of our planet, all without leaving your home or neighborhood. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹ Previous Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Current page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Next page Next › Last page Last » Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close