Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Events Environmental Justice Summit Events Past Event Environmental Justice Summit Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 15, 2022 1:00 PM - 4:00 PM America/New_York Lerner Hall, 2920 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 555 Show Map Building upon past Columbia Climate Conversations focused on climate and social justice, this in-person event invites individuals to learn more about representation and inclusivity from keynote Leah Thomas, founder of Intersectional Environmentalist. The keynote will be livestreamed; if you would like to view it virtually please register here. The first 50 people to arrive will receive a copy of her book, The Intersectional Environmentalist: How to Dismantle Systems of Oppression to Protect People + Planet. The keynote will be followed by a panel featuring environmental justice organizers, grassroots activists, and NYC nonprofits to dive deeper into housing injustice, bottom-up climate action, and systemic inequity. The summit will conclude with a creative workshop and mixer. This will be an informal setting to engage with one other, reflect on knowledge shared, and explore relationships with climate, activism, and the natural world through arts and crafts. The event will be hosted by Columbia undergraduate and Columbia Climate Conversations creator Lauren Ritchie, supported by Kailani Acosta, Benjamin Keisling, and Kwolanne Felix. The event will be open to anyone who RSVPs. Visitors must follow Columbia's health and safety policy, including COVID-19 vaccination. Keynote: Leah Thomas is an eco-communicator, aka an environmentalist with a love for writing and creativity, based in Ventura, CA. She’s passionate about advocating for and exploring the relationship between social justice and environmentalism. She is the founder of the eco-lifestyle blog @greengirlleah and The Intersectional Environmentalist Platform, which is a resource and media hub that aims to advocate for environmental justice + inclusivity within environmental education + movements. Her articles have appeared in Vogue, Elle, The Good Trade, and Youth to the People and she has been featured in Harper’s Bazaar, W Magazine, Domino, GOOP and numerous podcasts. She has a B.S. in Environmental Science and Policy from Chapman University and worked for the National Park Service and Patagonia HQ before pursuing environmentalism full time. Learn more about Leah and her mission. Panelists: Jasmine Graham, Energy Justice Policy Manager at WE ACT for Environmental Justice Daphne Frias, 24-year-old youth activist Whitney McGuire. Esq., mother, a New York state licensed attorney, legal and sustainability consultant & strategist, co-founder of Sustainable Brooklyn Ayisha Siddiqa, Pakistani environmentalist and human rights advocate, co-founder of Polluters Out and Fossil Free University Contact Information Benjamin Keisling [email protected] Upcoming Events Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close