Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home About Office of the Director Office of the Director Maureen “Mo” Raymo is Co-Founding Dean of the Columbia Climate School, Director of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, G. Unger Vetlesen Professor of Earth & Environmental Sciences, and Director of the Lamont-Doherty Core Repository. Raymo is an eminent marine geologist and climate scientist whose groundbreaking work focuses on the history and causes of climate change in the past, including understanding the consequences for sea level and ice sheet stability. Her research has been profiled in the New York Times, the Washington Post, The Atlantic, The New Yorker, U.S. News and World Report, Discover Magazine, and elsewhere, and has been featured on television via the History Channel, BBC World Service, BBC’s Planet Earth, PBS NewsHour, as well as numerous podcasts and radio segments. Raymo has published over 100 peer-reviewed scientific publications, including ten in Science or Nature. A fellow of the National Academy of Science, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Geophysical Union, the Geological Society of London, and the Explorer’s Club, in 2014 she became the first woman to be awarded the Wollaston Medal, the Geological Society of London’s most senior medal previously awarded to William Smith, Charles Lyell, Louis Agassiz, and Charles Darwin. In 2019, she was awarded AGU’s Maurice Ewing Medal “for significant original contributions to the ocean sciences. bullhorn icon Weekly Director's Reports users icon Lamont Directors 1949-Present Leadership Maureen ‘Mo’ Raymo Takes on a Mighty Mission Announcing the Leadership of the Columbia Climate School Maureen Raymo Elected to National Academy of Sciences Science Some Past Sea Levels May Not Have Been as High as Thought, Says Study of Rising and Sinking Landmasses Two Months in the Southern Ocean, for Science Maureen Raymo on Lamont’s Living Library of Earth History Select Media Coverage The New York Times She’s an Authority on Earth’s Past. Now, Her Focus Is the Planet’s Future. Eos Ancient Sea Levels in South Africa May Offer Modern Analogues PBS NOVA What Did the East Coast Look Like 3 Million Years Ago? Yale Climate Connections What Are Climate Scientists' Hopes, Concerns for 2020? Eos Maureen E. Raymo Receives 2019 Maurice Ewing Medal CLIMATE ACTION — VIDEO FEATURES The Climate Imperative: Meeting the Moment A Case for Global Climate Action: U.N. Secretary General Delivers Potent Remarks at Columbia Under Water: Coastal Fragility and Our Rising Seas Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close