Javascript is turned off! Please turn it on to view this site correctly Jump to navigation Skip to main content Toggle navigation Enter your keywords Visit Tours Mobile Tours Events Listening with Landmarks Go Geocaching with Landmarks Sound in Sculpture Songs in the Skyspace Turrell Skyspace About Collection Video Art Archive Current Season Latest Learning with Landmarks View All Support Participate Volunteer Employment Photo Submissions Español 简体中文 Search form Enter the keywords to search through the site Search You are here Back Docent-Led and Self-Guided Tours BikeTour_TourPage_Web_Optimized photo by Christina Murrey Nancy Rubins, Monochrome for Austin, 2015 Public Tours Public tours happen the first Sunday of every month at 11am. Works visited and meeting locations vary each month. For details on upcoming tours visit Landmarks Event page. Mobile Tours Looking for a new way to enhance your Landmarks experience? Now you can enjoy the Landmarks collection safely and responsibly while walking on campus. Use your smartphone to access self-guided tours of select outdoor works of art, audio guides, artist videos, Spotify playlists, and more. Simply scan the QR code below or open the app. self-guided_tour_2.png Faculty Resources Self-guided Tours Online, in-person, and hybrid learning options Landmarks offers geographic and thematic tours of the collection on Landmarks' Mobile App. Students use a smartphone to take self-guided tours on campus, or depending on their location, may listen to the audio guide, video content, and access images from home. Customized Tours on Landmarks' App Online, in-person, and hybrid learning options Landmarks can build a custom tour for your class with course-specific routes on Landmarks' Mobile App. Each tour provides options to track attendance and gather feedback. Students use a smartphone to take self-guided tours on campus, or depending on their location, may listen to the audio guide, video content, and access images from home. Virtual Tours with a Landmarks Educator or Docent Live Zoom presentations A Landmarks educator will join your course via Zoom for a virtual tour of the collection. Tours are customizable based on class subject and feature high-resolution video and images with slow-looking and inquiry driven activities built into the tour structure. Faculty-led Tours In-person learning Consult with Landmarks educators for a route and talking points to lead your class on a socially-distant tour of the collection. This option is available for outdoor works only. GIVE TODAY Follow Subscribe Press Contact Privacy Web Accessibility All PDF document downloads on this website require the Adobe Reader