IE BROWN EXECUTIVE MBA A joint Executive MBA degree that goes beyond the boundaries of traditional business education Duration 15 months language English Location Online, Madrid, Providence & Cape Town Intake March format Blended Methodology A JOINT DEGREE: TWO WORLD-CLASS INSTITUTIONS, ONE UNIQUE EXPERIENCE IN DYNAMIC MANAGEMENT EDUCATION Over 15 months, the Executive MBA prepares ambitious, middle-management professionals to be effective executive leaders in the modern, multifaceted digital market landscape. Take your industry experience and acquire new, market-relevant technological tools. Immersed in an environment of idea and vision, learn how to lead change in a senior management position, or redirect your career trajectory and aim for success in an exciting new venture. 3rd WORLDWIDE Executive MBA The Economist WhichMBA, 2020 1st European Executive MBA THE ECONOMIST WHICHMBA, 2020 WANT TO KNOW MORE? Ivy League Education from one of the World’s Top Universities “The IE Brown Executive MBA program offers a highly flexible, top-quality MBA education with a special focus on human sciences, all within a truly international and diverse environment.” Carlos Simón, Spain Investment Director at Phi Industrial Carlos Simón, Spain Investment Director at Phi Industrial “The IE Brown Executive MBA program offers a highly flexible, top-quality MBA education with a special focus on human sciences, all within a truly international and diverse environment.” "I wanted something without the traditional 'finance' focus. So, when I saw that IE and Brown had this partnership, I knew the program was for me." Lauren Wood, USA Head of Patient Experience & Corporate Communications, Immunomedics Lauren Wood, USA Head of Patient Experience & Corporate Communications, Immunomedics "I wanted something without the traditional 'finance' focus. So, when I saw that IE and Brown had this partnership, I knew the program was for me." What sets the IE Brown Executive MBA apart? TWO WORLD-CLASS INSTITUTIONS This unique joint degree program unites the resources and prestige of IE Business School and Brown University, creating an educational opportunity unlike any other. One of this program’s biggest advantages is its world-class faculty, made up of industry leaders, accomplished academics and experts. By bringing together instructors from IE Business School and Brown, we have created a truly international and multidisciplinary academic team. On top of this, upon graduation, you’ll gain Alumni status at both institutions. A NEW WAY OF DOING BUSINESS The IE Brown Executive MBA seamlessly blends an advanced business curriculum with the humanities and social sciences. As a result, it offers a broader vision of business rooted in human interactions and emphasizes the critical importance of context and environment. By studying a broad range of subjects that complement dynamic business courses, program participants become well-rounded executives, prepared to confront complex business challenges. EXPAND YOUR GLOBAL NETWORK This program boasts a remarkably diverse cohort. As program participants forge connections with like-minded executive leaders, they build a global network of lifelong contacts. The face-to-face periods in Madrid, Providence and Cape Town provide memorable opportunities to strengthen professional relationships and learn from the group’s collective talent and experience. FLEXIBLE BLENDED FORMAT The IE Brown Executive MBA combines cutting-edge technology with rigorous, top-quality academic offerings to provide a future-forward education that fosters innovative thinking. This flexible methodology allows students access to an outstanding Executive MBA program without interrupting their professional or personal lives. TWO POWERFUL INSTITUTIONS OFFERING ONE JOINT EXECUTIVE MBA IE Business School IE Business School is consistently regarded as one of the best business schools in the world in international rankings. Beginning as an independent, post-graduate institution in 1973, IE Business School has gone on to consolidate its reputation for being a highly innovative school with auniquely entrepreneurial spirit. Through hands-on, practice-based programs, this institution has transformed managerial education, while simultaneously incorporating the humanities into business education, and using dynamic blended learning strategies. Brown University Brown University, located in Providence, Rhode Island, is among the most prestigious universities in the U.S.A member of the esteemed Ivy League, its outstanding undergraduate, graduate and medical degree programs are characterized by a distinctive academic philosophy, a world-class faculty and a long-standing tradition of innovative and rigorous multidisciplinary study. Around the world, Brown alumni can be found inleadership across the public and private sector. DOWNLOAD BROCHURE TRY A BUSINESS SCHOOL WITH A TWIST © 2022 IE | You can contact the IE and the IE Foundation's DPO at DataPrivacyOffice@ie.edu This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.