Skip to main content Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Cornell University Home College of Agriculture & Life Sciences Home Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Landscape Architecture Main navigation About History of the Department News & Events Diversity & Inclusion Accreditation ASLA Student Chapter Social Media Programs Bachelor of Science Master of Landscape Architecture Master of Professional Studies Dual Master's Degree Landscape Studies Minor Study Abroad People Students & Alumni Projects Resources Fabrication Laboratory Computer Laboratory Grants & Scholarships Navigation Main mobile navigation About About Overview History of the Department News & Events Diversity & Inclusion Accreditation ASLA Student Chapter Social Media Programs Programs Overview Bachelor of Science Master of Landscape Architecture Master of Professional Studies Dual Master's Degree Landscape Studies Minor Study Abroad People People Overview Students & Alumni Projects Projects Overview Resources Resources Overview Fabrication Laboratory Computer Laboratory Grants & Scholarships Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Bachelor of Science in Landscape Architecture Undergraduate Program Breadcrumb Home Landscape Architecture Programs The foundation of the bachelor of science in landscape architecture (BSLA) undergraduate curriculum is a sequence of intensive design studios. The design studio model involves a one-on-one relationship between the student and faculty, and this interaction typifies the Cornell landscape architecture program. Each studio requires a different set of principles and theories and an artistic mastery of the media of landscape – landform, plants, water, and non-vegetal materials and their manipulation through the application of ecological and technological practices. The topics, sites, contexts, constituencies, and scales of development of each studio builds on the previous studio in an ever-increasing level of complexity and attention to detail and conceptual thought. Supplemental courses in all other aspects of the field provide the information synthesized in the studio to reinforce the design process and end result. The studio is project-based and exposes students to a wide array of landscape scales, types, contexts, and topical issues. The studio format entails lectures, demonstrations, field trips, readings, guest presentations, precedent study, one-on-one instruction, and group discourse. Rather than espousing a singular design philosophy or style, the department offers multiple perspectives on design, imparted through the studio course sequence. The required sequential nature of the studios offered throughout the student’s academic career at Cornell allows for each studio to build on the previous one with an ever-increasing degree of complexity and attention to detail. Studio size is conducive to small group interaction among students and between students and faculty. Our undergraduate program complies with the requirements of three governing bodies: The New York State Education Department (NYSED) The Council of Landscape Architecture Registration Boards (CLARB) The Landscape Architecture Accreditation Board (LAAB) The undergraduate landscape architecture curriculum is a broad-based course of study that provides instruction in the skills necessary for professional practice and is a license-qualifying, first professional degree. In addition to the required landscape architecture courses, students are expected to fulfill university requirements in biological, physical, and social sciences, humanities, and written and oral communication. Student-Formulated Concentrations The formal concentration in Landscape Architecture allows degree candidates in the department the opportunity to define an area of personal interest within this broad profession or to examine the landscape dimensions of an associated field. The concentration is an opportunity for students to formally establish their interests as part of the degree. The concentration is defined by the student in consultation with their faculty advisor. The requirements of the concentration are at least 10 credits for the MLA beyond those required by the department for the degree. Students include the LA 4030 The Concentration class as part of the 10 credit requirement. Navigation Group menus extended Bachelor of Science BSLA Curriculum Master of Landscape Architecture Master of Professional Studies Dual Master's Degree Landscape Studies Minor Study Abroad Art of Adaptation Construction & Real Estate Digital Drawing + Mapping Heritage Landscape Human-Animal Interaction Technological Entrepreneurship Universal Design Back to list of careers Art of Adaptation “I named this concentration the “Art of Adaptation” because I have taken art and science classes that emphasize not only the importance of plants ecologically and culturally but confront the coming climate crisis directly. This is important for landscape architects who will be on the front lines of adapting land use (especially coastal land use) to the changing climate and the various implications for human and non-human life. I have used this interest in the creative and artful adaptation of the land and human infrastructure in my studio classes.” Nell Crumbley MLA '20 Back to list of careers Construction & Real Estate "This concentration has helped me gain a better general understanding of how landscape architecture projects are not only designed but are also constructed, and how to communicate and work more effectively with individuals that come from these fields." Dean Yeh MLA '20 Back to list of careers Digital Drawing + Mapping "During my early design education, visual representation, in general, was not a natural talent of mine, nor was construction logic. For this reason, I decided to tailor aspects of my graduate studies in landscape architecture toward further enlightenment and training in this realm- partly because I knew it was imperative to my future career as a designer, but more so because I recognized the particular agency of digitally-driven visual devices in catapulting design ethos, whether 2D or 3D in construct." Marco Rangel MLA '20 Back to list of careers Heritage Landscape “As far back as I can recall, I was always fascinated by the way a landscape can tell people's stories. My dream is to preserve endemic species and indigenous human cultures, improve food security, strengthen impoverished communities, and create an inspiring space for spiritual growth. I have always felt that creating and conserving public parks as a landscape architect would be the right way to achieve my goals.” Yaniv Korman MLA ’21 Back to list of careers Human-Animal Interaction “Following my lifelong passion for animals, I concentrated my studies as a landscape architecture student on human-animal interaction: the relationship and experience of humans and animals within a space. One could easily argue that we are starting to take animals for granted given the increasing rates of endangered species and extinctions, and this can only be detrimental to us as well as the world we inhabit. Because of this, I believe that design should be used thoughtfully to improve the relationship between humans and animals, and provide for the needs of the species of focus.” Susan Rhodes BSLA ’17 Back to list of careers Technological Entrepreneurship "From taking a few specific classes within the minor track, I have been able to enhance my holistic knowledge of business innovation, all while subconsciously thinking about how I can apply this knowledge to my career as a designer. Specifically, something that has always stuck out to me is my intrigue of technology, and the amazing advancements we continue to make with technology on a daily basis. Technology has always been a powerful driver in the entrepreneurship and innovation classes I have taken, and a very important tool I often think about as an element that needs to be tied into the landscape, both physically in our designs and included more in the workflows of the practice." Seth Kunoff BSLA '21 Back to list of careers Universal Design “While human occupancy can be used to measure a landscape’s performance in some ways, solely relying on human inhabitance to evaluate success fails to recognize the importance of a multitude of other contributing factors. This inspired me to concentrate on Universal Design, not as it typically relates to the built environment, but how it must be re-defined in order to evaluate landscape architecture as well. If we are going to use the term “universal” to describe the performance of a project, then we should be evaluating the space’s ability to truly create meaningful and measurable impacts for all systems—not just those that are human-related.” Molly Davis BSLA ’20 BSLA Projects From Skyline to Shoreline Molly Davis BSLA '20 Hex Deck Jake Geitner BSLA '22 For NE(S)TIZENs Cheryl Wang BSLA '23 Reimagining Mounds Kelly Zhan BSLA '22 Previous Next BSLA Admission Details Admission Undergraduate students enter the Department of Landscape Architecture as freshmen or transfer students. For general incoming freshmen application information, visit the CALS First Year Students page. This page contains links for how to apply, requirements for admission, selection criteria, and timetable for admission. For general incoming transfer students application information, visit the CALS Undergraduate Transfer Students page. This page contains links for how to apply, special and visiting students, timetables, transfer agreements with other colleges and universities, transfer credits, transfer day, and transfer criteria. If you are already a student in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and would like to transfer into the BSLA program, you will need to fill out the LA Transfer Application and submit it along with a portfolio to the Department. Portfolio Applicants to the BSLA program are required to submit a portfolio. The portfolio is used to assess your aptitude for visual thinking and design. Applicants may include a wide variety of media, including freehand drawings, painting, photography, graphic design and renderings, garden design, and other creative endeavors. Format Portfolios should include a total number of 10-12 pieces. Please include a brief caption for each piece, including a title, size, project intention, and medium of each work. Portfolios are digitally submitted along with the BSLA application. Please note that your file size should be less than twenty (20) megabytes total. Please send your portfolio to: Jamie Vanucchi, Director of Undergraduate Studies Email: jlv29 [at] cornell.edu Please include your full name in the email header to ensure your portfolio is correctly matched with your application. Financial Aid Financial Aid for undergraduate students is need-based. For information related to financial aid, visit the CALS Financing Your Cornell Education page. Resources: Contact Jamie Vanucchi Director of Undergraduate Studies, Assistant Professor Landscape Architecture Close contact Jamie Vanucchi (607) 255-9082 jlv29 [at] cornell.edu Contact Kristie Milliman Undergraduate and Graduate Field Assistant Landscape Architecture Close contact Kristie Milliman (607) 255-0552 klo28 [at] cornell.edu Apply BSLA Curriculum Distribution Requirements Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information