All Stanford University & Hospital ID holders are now welcome to visit Lane Library! Learn More Today's Hours: Closed Lane Medical Library Close About About Lane Library Hours Directions & Maps Staff Directory Gifts & Donations Lane Blog Resources Journals Databases Books Exam Prep Materials Course Reserves Guides Image Materials Health Statistics Mobile Apps Software Services Research Services Classes & Events Research Services Literature Search Service DocXpress Document Delivery Service Liaisons Using the Library Borrow, Renew, Return Who Can Use Lane Library Study & Computing Spaces Equipment to Borrow Medical History Center Get Help Contact Us Email a Question Live Chat Suggest a Purchase Report an Access Issue Schedule a Consultation Self-Guided Guides Login Help Login My Bookmarks My Bookmarks Logout All AllClinical SearchImages SearchLane Catalog PICO Search Builder Close PICO Search Builder Search Help? Search Help? Top Resources PubMed UpToDate Lexi-Comp Micromedex Web of Science Scopus e-Anatomy VisualDx DocXpress ClinicalKey Embase DynaMed Sanford Guide Natural Medicines Blog Posts Read and Publish Case Reports through BMJ Case Reports Read More Women in Data Science @ Lane Medical Library Virtual Conference Read More National Nurses Month Read More Library Classes & Events Jun 0711:00 AM – 12:00 PMZotero Basics: Software to collect, organize, and share citations Jun 082:00 PM – 3:00 PMHistorical Walking Tour Jun 142:00 PM – 3:15 PMKeeping Current: Stay Up to Date with the Latest Biomedical Research All Classes & Events Research Office Hours Explore Journals Books Databases Guides Sign Up for Our Email Newsletters Get the latest about library events, new programs and services and other library news delivered to you inbox Meet Your Lane Library Staff Alain BoussardSystem Software Developer Heida EarnestMetadata Management Specialist Heidi HeilemannAssociate Dean for Knowledge Management, Director Colleen CuddyDirector of Research & Academic Collaboration Leah AndersonManager, Access & Collection Services Christopher StaveGraduate Medical Education Librarian Salina LueLibrary Specialist, Borrowing Nicole SoaresOutreach & Privileges Specialist Connie WongMedical Education Librarian You-ping LiCourse Reserves Coordinator Thea AllenDirector of Resource Management Jeff CodoriAccess Services Specialist Wen Chin LeeLibrary Specialist, Lending Drew BournHistory Curator Judy KmetkoAdministrator Marcos FigueroaAccess Services Specialist Amanda WoodwardWeb Services Librarian John BorghiManager, Research Services Librarian Ryan SteinbergSoftware Developer & Systems Architect Sonam SoniResource Management Librarian Dick MillerStaff Emeritus Lily RenResearch Communications Librarian Danyang ZhangSystems Analyst Alex DelPrioreSystems Librarian Kaitlynn StinsonAccess Services Specialist A point-of-care clinical information resource containing succinct and aggressively updated clinical topic reviews. Provides fulltext access to Lane's resources. Includes the MEDLINE database, which contains coverage of over 5000 journals and more than 25 million citations for biomedical articles, including, but not limited to, clinical trials, systematic reviews, case reports, and clinical practice guidelines. Lane RSS feeds (Really Simple Syndication)A medical search engine provides access to 9,000 medical and procedural videos, 1,000 books and over. All online issues of the Journal of the American Medical Association.Nature, the international weekly journal of science. New England Journal of Medicine. Searchable databasesLane Library's Document Delivery Service obtains article and book chapter PDFs as well as print book loans from other libraries at no cost to School of Medicine affiliated users as well as scans PDFs of articles or book chapters from Lane's print collection for a small fee. Alphabetical listing of journals Current and archived Grand Rounds Derived from Current Medical Diagnosis & Treatment, AccessMedicine's Quick Medical Diagnosis & Treatment provides topic reviews with key diagnostic and treatment features for more than 500 diseases. A repository of medical knowledge from internal medicine, cardiology, genetics, pharmacy, diagnosis and management, basic sciences, patient care, and more. Continuously expanding, all databases in the repository contain the latest editions of selected medical titles. MicroMedex: Premier pharmaceutical information source containing multiple databases and drug reference tools. Of particular value is DRUGDEX Evaluations, one of the most comprehensive drug sources available. DynaMed is a clinical information resource used to answer questions quickly at the point-of-care. Easy-to-interpret Levels of Evidence help clinicians rapidly determine the quality of the available evidence. Biomedical and pharmacological abstracting and indexing database of published literature, by Elsevier. Embase® contains over 32 million records from over 8,500 currently published journals (1947-present) and is noteworthy for its extensive coverage of the international pharmaceutical and alternative/complementary medicine literature. Scopus is the largest abstract and citation database of peer-reviewed literature: scientific journals, books and conference proceedings.A drug information resource containing: American Hospital Formulary System (AHFS), drug formulary for Lucile Packard Children's Hospital (LPCH) and Stanford Hospital & Clinics (SHC), Lexi-Drugs (adverse reactions, dosage and administration, mechanism of action, storage, use, and administration information), Lexi-Calc, Lexi-ID, Lexi-I.V. Compatibility (King Guide), Lexi-Interact, and Lexi-PALS. Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) contains coverage of nursing and allied health literature.A knowledge database that provides access to topic reviews based on over 6000 clinically relevant articles. The evidence-based content, updated regularly, provides the latest practice guidelines in 59 medical specialties. Provides critical assessments of systematic reviews compiled from a variety of medical journals. Selects from the biomedical literature original studies and systematic reviews that are immediately clinically relevant and then summarizes these articles in an enhanced abstract with expert commentary. Multidisciplinary coverage of over 10,000 high-impact journals in the sciences, social sciences, and arts and humanities, as well as international proceedings coverage for over 120,000 conferences. Includes cited reference searching, citation maps, and an analyze tool. Features systematic reviews that summarize the effects of interventions and makes a determination whether the intervention is efficacious or not. Cochrane reviews are created through a strict process of compiling and analyzing data from multiple randomized control trials to ensure comprehensiveness and reliability. Provides systematic coverage of the psychological literature from the 1800s to the present through articles, book chapters and dissertations.BMJ Clinical Evidence. A clinical information tool built around systematic reviews summarizing the current state of knowledge about prevention and treatment of clinical conditions. PIER (Physicians' Information and Education Resource) is a Web-based decision-support tool designed for rapid point-of-care delivery of up-to-date, evidence-based guidance for primary care physicians. Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) provides access to 300,000 controlled trials that have been identified the Cochrane Collaboration.Provides drug information targeted for patients. A continually updating drug monograph.ECRI Guidelines Trust: A comprehensive database of evidence-based clinical practice guidelines and related documents.MedlinePlus: A repository of health information from the National Library of Medicine. Links are from trusted sites. No advertising, no endorsement of commercial companies or products LPCH CareNotes via MicroMedex: Patient education handouts customized by LPCH clinical staff Micromedex Lab Advisor: Evidence based laboratory test informationA drug database organized by generic name, trade name and drug class. LPCH / Stanford Hospital Formulary. A goldmine of trusted consumer health information from the world's largest medical library. A trusted source of expert advice for and about kids, providing the information necessary to help patients and parents understand their unique needs. Provides patient handouts from the American Academy of Family Physician. Access to the Stanford Health Library for patients.Lane provides access to over 5,000 eBooks many of which provide helpful background material that will prepare you to better tackle primary literature. Largest, broadest eBook package; covers all sciences, as well as technology (including software), medicine, and humanities. In addition to covering Wiley and Springer, MyiLibrary is also the only provider for Oxford and Cambridge University Press titles. No seat restrictions.A collection of biomedical books that can be searched directly by concept, and linked to terms in PubMed abstracts. A web-based, decision support system for infectious diseases, epidemiology, microbiology and antimicrobial chemotherapy. The database, updated weekly, currently includes 337 diseases, 224 countries, 1,147 microbial taxa and 306 antibacterial (-fungal, -parasitic, -viral) agents and vaccines. Over 10,000 notes outline the status of specific infections within each country. Access SHC antibiotic guidelines integrated with information on antimicrobial therapy, HIV/AIDS therapy, and hepatitis therapy in a single searchable website and mobile device app. VisualDx is a decision support system that allows clinicians to build a patient-specific differential, search by diagnosis, or review medication-related events. Health education and information about illnesses, diseases and conditions provided by the American Academy of Family Physicians. Critical appraisals of new drugs and comparative reviews of drugs for common diseases. Micromedex CareNotes for SHC delivers patient education materials across the continuum of care — including pre-care, inpatient, discharge, emergency department, ambulatory, and wellness education. CareNotes are available in both English and Spanish. The key resource for information on dietary supplements, natural medicines, and complementary alternative and integrative therapies. Excellent source for checking interactions. Limit your PubMed search to Cochrane Reviews, AHRQ Evidence Reports, BMJ Clinical Evidence topics, FPIN Clinical Inquiries,and ACP Journal Club article reviews. A specialized PubMed search geared towards helping clinicians quickly access systematic reviews.A specialized PubMed search geared towards helping clinicians quickly access clinical trials. Using the links on this site will get you directly to the ICPSR (Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research) and the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research. Stanford is a member of both. If you create an individual account with your Stanford affiliation, you will be able to download available datasets on these sites. Population health science requires scientists from different disciplinary backgrounds to combine their knowledge and expertise to answer questions that individual disciplines alone cannot. The Interdisciplinary Association for Population Health Science (IAPHS) was founded to bring them all together. Public health protects and improves the health of individuals, families, communities, and populations, locally and globally. The mission of the Population Health Alliance is to advance the principles of population health improvement, so they become pillars of our healthcare system. Patient education documentation for various conditions and life stages. Wellness and prevention information is also available. Downloadable images & radiographs, videos of diagnostics & procedures. 3D interactive human anatomy (zoom, rotate, view layers) supplemented with MRIs, X-rays, videos. Limited to 1 simultaneous user; be sure to logoff when done. Radiological images: search by findings, anatomy, imaging technique, patient age, sex. David Lee Bassett MD (1913-1966), a professor in the Department of Anatomy at Stanford University School of Medicine, pioneered innovations in dissection to create this comprehensive set of three-dimensional human anatomy photographs. An interactive atlas of human anatomy; over 40 modules covering the full body.68,600 images and videos, 400+ step-by-step illustrated procedures, simultaneous search across Thieme's journals, e-books, and PubMed. Limited to 19 simultaneous users. Designed to teach or review human anatomy; turn labels on/off, some quizzing. 6th edition of An Atlas of illustrations and radiologic images provides views and perspectives that elucidate complex anatomic relationships. Incorporates muscle tables as quick look-up appendices. Database of must-know cases covering every radiology subspecialty; clearly annotated images to identify key findings at-a-glance. Select “Images” tab; search over 2 million images covering these subject areas: Biochemistry, Dentistry, Genetics, Immunology, Microbiology, Medicine, Molecular Biology, Neuroscience, Nursing & Health Professions, Veterinary Science & MedicineA presentation tool with thousands of stunning illustrations and clinical images from Gilroy et al.'s Atlas of Anatomy, 2nd Edition, and other Thieme titles. Archive of medical images of cancer for free public download. Images are organized as “Collections”, e.g., disease (lung cancer, etc.), image modality (MRI, CT, etc.) or research focus. DICOM file format. Back to top Lane Medical Library 300 Pasteur Drive, Rm L109 Stanford, CA 94305 Stanford Mail Code: 5123 Phone: (650) 723-6831 About Contact Us Directions & Maps Hours Who Can Use Lane Library Stanford Libraries Stanford School of Medicine 291 Campus Drive Li Ka Shing Building Stanford, CA 94305-5101 Phone: (650) 723-4000 About Contact Directions & Maps Jobs Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift © 2022 Stanford Medicine Terms of Use Privacy Policy Hours Login Logout Call